[{"date": "2008-03-30T23:04:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It should be made clear that there are considerable differences between biofuels in terms of greenhouse gas emissions (Biofuels: a solution that became part of the problem, March 25). Sugarcane is by far the most productive, cost-efficient and carbon-saving feedstock for biofuel production. Sugarcane ethanol allows for a 90% reduction in emissions, compared with petrol, and its energy balance is 8.3 to one, ie for every unit of energy used in production eight units of energy are created. Gains in agricultural productivity in Brazil have led to a simultaneous increase in ethanol and food production. Brazil now produces enough ethanol to power 45% of its passenger vehicles using only 3.4m hectares, or 1%, of its arable land. This production is located mainly in the centre-south of Brazil, 2,500km distant from the Amazon. Brazil's ethanol production is expected to triple by 2020, but the increase will require only 6m additional hectares, only a fraction of the 30m hectares of degraded pasture currently available. Thanks to hydroelectric power and to biofuels, approximately 45% of Brazil's total energy mix is comprised of renewable sources, compared with the EU's average of 6.7% and the UK's 2%. Felipe CostaEmbassy of BrazilThe government wishes to offset UK-funded overseas wind farms against the UK's renewables commitment (Report, March 29). A 12MW proposal in the greenbelt near our village would be financed from Germany, and use Danish turbines. Has the government thought through the implications of counter-offsetting foreign-funded UK-based windfarms?Steve PardoeActon Bridge, Cheshire", "tags": ["Biofuels", "Energy", "Environment", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Letters: Brazil sugars the pill on biofuels"},{"date": "2008-03-30T23:04:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It should be made clear that there are considerable differences between biofuels in terms of greenhouse gas emissions (Biofuels: a solution that became part of the problem, March 25). Sugarcane is by far the most productive, cost-efficient and carbon-saving feedstock for biofuel production. Sugarcane ethanol allows for a 90% reduction in emissions, compared with petrol, and its energy balance is 8.3 to one, ie for every unit of energy used in production eight units of energy are created. Gains in agricultural productivity in Brazil have led to a simultaneous increase in ethanol and food production. Brazil now produces enough ethanol to power 45% of its passenger vehicles using only 3.4m hectares, or 1%, of its arable land. This production is located mainly in the centre-south of Brazil, 2,500km distant from the Amazon. Brazil's ethanol production is expected to triple by 2020, but the increase will require only 6m additional hectares, only a fraction of the 30m hectares of degraded pasture currently available. Thanks to hydroelectric power and to biofuels, approximately 45% of Brazil's total energy mix is comprised of renewable sources, compared with the EU's average of 6.7% and the UK's 2%. Felipe CostaEmbassy of BrazilThe government wishes to offset UK-funded overseas wind farms against the UK's renewables commitment (Report, March 29). A 12MW proposal in the greenbelt near our village would be financed from Germany, and use Danish turbines. Has the government thought through the implications of counter-offsetting foreign-funded UK-based windfarms?Steve PardoeActon Bridge, Cheshire", "tags": ["Biofuels", "Energy", "Environment", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Letters: Brazil sugars the pill on biofuels"},{"date": "2008-02-26T18:16:14Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The British supermodel Naomi Campbell is in hospital in Sao Paulo, Brazil, being treated by one of the country's top infection specialists, the hospital's press office said today.Campbell, 37, is a frequent visitor to Brazil, and this month celebrated Carnival in the north-eastern city of Salvador. She was admitted to the Sirio Libanes hospital on Sunday.\"The patient and her advisers have determined that the hospital's medical staff will not issue any formal or informal information on her medical condition,\" a statement released by the hospital said. Campbell is under the care of David Uip, a specialist in infectious diseases, and Jose Aristodemo Pinotti, a gynaecologist, the statement said.A spokesman for Campbell said: \"Naomi Campbell was admitted to hospital last night [February 25] to have a small cyst removed. Following the successful procedure, she is now resting and is looking forward to getting back to work. She would like to thank the doctors who have kindly looked after her.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Life and style", "UK news", "World news", "Models", "Naomi Campbell", "Americas"], "title": "Naomi Campbell in hospital in Brazil"},{"date": "2008-05-28T09:30:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Between three and five million people took part in Sao Paulo's twelfth gay pride parade last weekend, making it the largest event of its kind anywhere in the world.The organisers of the Pride, Associa\u00e7\u00e3o da Parada do Orgulho GLBT (LGBT Pride Parade Association), \"twinned\" the event with Moscow Pride which was viciously attacked last year, as reported and experienced by Peter Tatchell here.The Moscow Pride organiser, Nikolai Alekseev flew in from Russia to be awarded a Brazilian Pride's \"Citizen Award for Respecting Diversity\" in a special ceremony last week.Over the last 10 years, Sao Paulo's LGBT Pride Parade has grown from 2,000 people in 1997 to being recognised by the Guinness Book of Records as the biggest Gay Pride event ever. The parade itself draws on Brazil's colourful carnival reputation with 20 open-decked trucks carrying sound systems down the skyscraper-lined Avenida Paulista, in the heart of Sao Paulo's financial district.The parade caps a full week of attractions, including the Cultural Gay Fair, Gay Day and the International GLS Tourism Forum, which are sponsored by the city's tourism department and Petrobras, Brazil's state-owned oil company. It also includes workshops and debates throughout the city that help to spread awareness about LGBT human rights and STD/Aids prevention.Brazil has one of the most effective anti-HIV/Aids campaigns in the world, which prevented the type of epidemic that has devastated other developing countries. Although it is the world's largest Catholic country, it has always had a very open attitude towards sexual activity. It has never criminalised same-sex sexual activity, for example, although it does not provide sexual minorities with protection against discrimination and violence, and has high recorded incidences of homophobic violence.Brazil's tourism minister, Marta Suplicy, a former Sao Paulo mayor, took part in the parade on one of its floats and said: \"This is the diversity the country wants, the diversity that we have to foster as a country seeking a tourist niche among the gay community.\" The parade attracts nearly 330,000 tourists to the city, who bring in a revenue of about $115m to the city. However, only around 5% of these tourists come from abroad, mainly from the United States and other parts of Latin America.Suplicy also called for the Brazilian Congress to pass a law making homophobia a crime, and said: \"We still see cases of homophobia in the country. That needs to change.\" Suplicy is a prominent member of the Brazilian Workers Party (PT) and is being widely tipped as a potential successor to President Lula.The law that she is proposing is being fiercely resisted by religious politicians, and it is becoming a serious political issue in the country. On a visit last year to Brazil, Pope Benedict spoke out against homosexuality and called for traditional family values to be reinforced. Organisers of the LGBT event, which was officially themed as \"Homophobia Kills! Defending the Secular State\", were quick to point out that fewer than one million had turned out for the papal visit, far fewer than attended last weekend's pride event.", "tags": ["Brazil", "LGBT rights", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "Americas"], "title": "Pride of Brazil"},{"date": "2008-05-28T09:30:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Between three and five million people took part in Sao Paulo's twelfth gay pride parade last weekend, making it the largest event of its kind anywhere in the world.The organisers of the Pride, Associa\u00e7\u00e3o da Parada do Orgulho GLBT (LGBT Pride Parade Association), \"twinned\" the event with Moscow Pride which was viciously attacked last year, as reported and experienced by Peter Tatchell here.The Moscow Pride organiser, Nikolai Alekseev flew in from Russia to be awarded a Brazilian Pride's \"Citizen Award for Respecting Diversity\" in a special ceremony last week.Over the last 10 years, Sao Paulo's LGBT Pride Parade has grown from 2,000 people in 1997 to being recognised by the Guinness Book of Records as the biggest Gay Pride event ever. The parade itself draws on Brazil's colourful carnival reputation with 20 open-decked trucks carrying sound systems down the skyscraper-lined Avenida Paulista, in the heart of Sao Paulo's financial district.The parade caps a full week of attractions, including the Cultural Gay Fair, Gay Day and the International GLS Tourism Forum, which are sponsored by the city's tourism department and Petrobras, Brazil's state-owned oil company. It also includes workshops and debates throughout the city that help to spread awareness about LGBT human rights and STD/Aids prevention.Brazil has one of the most effective anti-HIV/Aids campaigns in the world, which prevented the type of epidemic that has devastated other developing countries. Although it is the world's largest Catholic country, it has always had a very open attitude towards sexual activity. It has never criminalised same-sex sexual activity, for example, although it does not provide sexual minorities with protection against discrimination and violence, and has high recorded incidences of homophobic violence.Brazil's tourism minister, Marta Suplicy, a former Sao Paulo mayor, took part in the parade on one of its floats and said: \"This is the diversity the country wants, the diversity that we have to foster as a country seeking a tourist niche among the gay community.\" The parade attracts nearly 330,000 tourists to the city, who bring in a revenue of about $115m to the city. However, only around 5% of these tourists come from abroad, mainly from the United States and other parts of Latin America.Suplicy also called for the Brazilian Congress to pass a law making homophobia a crime, and said: \"We still see cases of homophobia in the country. That needs to change.\" Suplicy is a prominent member of the Brazilian Workers Party (PT) and is being widely tipped as a potential successor to President Lula.The law that she is proposing is being fiercely resisted by religious politicians, and it is becoming a serious political issue in the country. On a visit last year to Brazil, Pope Benedict spoke out against homosexuality and called for traditional family values to be reinforced. Organisers of the LGBT event, which was officially themed as \"Homophobia Kills! Defending the Secular State\", were quick to point out that fewer than one million had turned out for the papal visit, far fewer than attended last weekend's pride event.", "tags": ["Brazil", "LGBT rights", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "Americas"], "title": "Pride of Brazil"},{"date": "2008-04-17T09:57:43Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian president has rejected criticism that his country's production of biofuels has forced a surge in global food prices and harms the environment. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva accused critics of being driven by economic and political interests, and failing to highlight soaring oil prices and increased demand as a factor in pushing up food production costs.\"Don't tell me, for the love of God, that food is expensive because of biodiesel,\" he told reporters.\"Food is expensive because the world wasn't prepared to see millions of Chinese, Indians, Africans, Brazilians and Latin Americans eat. We want to discuss this not with passion but rationality and not from the European point of view.\" Lula made his comments following a week of protests in Brazil and Europe against the fuels made from food crops and their supposed environmental and social consequences.This week, the EU's environmental chief, Stavros Dimas, said that biofuels, which Brazil hopes to export to the EU, must now meet social and environmental conditions, and that \"the issue of sustainabilty criteria is of crucial importance.\" Scientists from the European Environment Agency urged the 27-nation bloc to drop its 10% biofuel target for road transport fuels.Lula rebuffed accusations by Jean Ziegler, the UN's special rapporteur for the right to food, that biofuels were a \"crime against humanity\".\"The real crime against humanity is to discredit biofuels a priori and condemn food-starved and energy-starved countries to dependence and insecurity,\" Lula said. Some of Brazil's neighbours, led by oil-rich Venezuela, warned this week that biofuels could increase malnutrition in Latin America. Lula said he was \"shocked\" that biofuel critics failed to mention the impact that high oil prices had on food production costs.\"It's always easier to hide economic and political interests behind supposed social and environmental interests,\" he said. The growing criticism has placed Brazil at the centre of the global biofuels debate. The country has enjoyed an agricultural export boom, and has become the world's largest exporter of ethanol, which is derived from sugar cane. Critics say the increased production of crops for ethanol and biodiesel, which is derived from oil seeds, competes for land with food crops, and is pushing cattle ranchers and farmers further north in Brazil, contributing to the destruction of the Amazon rainforest. But the Brazilian government has argued that it has plenty of unused land to plant crops for biofuels and that current production was still too small to affect food prices.", "tags": ["Biofuels", "Food", "Energy", "Environment", "Brazil", "European Union", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil rejects biofuels criticism"},{"date": "2008-05-28T09:30:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Between three and five million people took part in Sao Paulo's twelfth gay pride parade last weekend, making it the largest event of its kind anywhere in the world.The organisers of the Pride, Associa\u00e7\u00e3o da Parada do Orgulho GLBT (LGBT Pride Parade Association), \"twinned\" the event with Moscow Pride which was viciously attacked last year, as reported and experienced by Peter Tatchell here.The Moscow Pride organiser, Nikolai Alekseev flew in from Russia to be awarded a Brazilian Pride's \"Citizen Award for Respecting Diversity\" in a special ceremony last week.Over the last 10 years, Sao Paulo's LGBT Pride Parade has grown from 2,000 people in 1997 to being recognised by the Guinness Book of Records as the biggest Gay Pride event ever. The parade itself draws on Brazil's colourful carnival reputation with 20 open-decked trucks carrying sound systems down the skyscraper-lined Avenida Paulista, in the heart of Sao Paulo's financial district.The parade caps a full week of attractions, including the Cultural Gay Fair, Gay Day and the International GLS Tourism Forum, which are sponsored by the city's tourism department and Petrobras, Brazil's state-owned oil company. It also includes workshops and debates throughout the city that help to spread awareness about LGBT human rights and STD/Aids prevention.Brazil has one of the most effective anti-HIV/Aids campaigns in the world, which prevented the type of epidemic that has devastated other developing countries. Although it is the world's largest Catholic country, it has always had a very open attitude towards sexual activity. It has never criminalised same-sex sexual activity, for example, although it does not provide sexual minorities with protection against discrimination and violence, and has high recorded incidences of homophobic violence.Brazil's tourism minister, Marta Suplicy, a former Sao Paulo mayor, took part in the parade on one of its floats and said: \"This is the diversity the country wants, the diversity that we have to foster as a country seeking a tourist niche among the gay community.\" The parade attracts nearly 330,000 tourists to the city, who bring in a revenue of about $115m to the city. However, only around 5% of these tourists come from abroad, mainly from the United States and other parts of Latin America.Suplicy also called for the Brazilian Congress to pass a law making homophobia a crime, and said: \"We still see cases of homophobia in the country. That needs to change.\" Suplicy is a prominent member of the Brazilian Workers Party (PT) and is being widely tipped as a potential successor to President Lula.The law that she is proposing is being fiercely resisted by religious politicians, and it is becoming a serious political issue in the country. On a visit last year to Brazil, Pope Benedict spoke out against homosexuality and called for traditional family values to be reinforced. Organisers of the LGBT event, which was officially themed as \"Homophobia Kills! Defending the Secular State\", were quick to point out that fewer than one million had turned out for the papal visit, far fewer than attended last weekend's pride event.", "tags": ["Brazil", "LGBT rights", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "Americas"], "title": "Pride of Brazil"},{"date": "2008-04-17T09:57:43Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian president has rejected criticism that his country's production of biofuels has forced a surge in global food prices and harms the environment. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva accused critics of being driven by economic and political interests, and failing to highlight soaring oil prices and increased demand as a factor in pushing up food production costs.\"Don't tell me, for the love of God, that food is expensive because of biodiesel,\" he told reporters.\"Food is expensive because the world wasn't prepared to see millions of Chinese, Indians, Africans, Brazilians and Latin Americans eat. We want to discuss this not with passion but rationality and not from the European point of view.\" Lula made his comments following a week of protests in Brazil and Europe against the fuels made from food crops and their supposed environmental and social consequences.This week, the EU's environmental chief, Stavros Dimas, said that biofuels, which Brazil hopes to export to the EU, must now meet social and environmental conditions, and that \"the issue of sustainabilty criteria is of crucial importance.\" Scientists from the European Environment Agency urged the 27-nation bloc to drop its 10% biofuel target for road transport fuels.Lula rebuffed accusations by Jean Ziegler, the UN's special rapporteur for the right to food, that biofuels were a \"crime against humanity\".\"The real crime against humanity is to discredit biofuels a priori and condemn food-starved and energy-starved countries to dependence and insecurity,\" Lula said. Some of Brazil's neighbours, led by oil-rich Venezuela, warned this week that biofuels could increase malnutrition in Latin America. Lula said he was \"shocked\" that biofuel critics failed to mention the impact that high oil prices had on food production costs.\"It's always easier to hide economic and political interests behind supposed social and environmental interests,\" he said. The growing criticism has placed Brazil at the centre of the global biofuels debate. The country has enjoyed an agricultural export boom, and has become the world's largest exporter of ethanol, which is derived from sugar cane. Critics say the increased production of crops for ethanol and biodiesel, which is derived from oil seeds, competes for land with food crops, and is pushing cattle ranchers and farmers further north in Brazil, contributing to the destruction of the Amazon rainforest. But the Brazilian government has argued that it has plenty of unused land to plant crops for biofuels and that current production was still too small to affect food prices.", "tags": ["Biofuels", "Food", "Energy", "Environment", "Brazil", "European Union", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil rejects biofuels criticism"},{"date": "2008-06-20T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "There's a direct correlation between the shortening queue of Brazilians in front of me and my rising sense of panic. I've come to the poor outer district of Retiro to meet Mae (Mother) Stella, a revered leader of the region's Afro-Brazilian religion, Candombl\u00e9. She's a gentle-looking 84-year-old, but she is held in such high esteem in the Il\u00e9 Ax\u00e9 Op\u00f4 Afonj\u00e1 compound that I am terrified of making a faux pas. Or I should say another faux pas: I've already made one by arriving in trousers, causing someone to run to fetch me a billowing African skirt.I'm here on the advice of a local psychologist called Lucia, whom I met through hospitalityclub.org. Although she can't join me, she recommended the centre as offering a genuine, non-tourist-driven ceremony, which she has attended many times, \"out of curiosity, and because it feels good\". However, with no host to translate from Portuguese - or Yoruba, the enclave's second language - all I can do is watch and copy. The congregation takes turns to lie face down on a dusty carpet and point their bodies at items around the altar - a conch shell, maracas, a giant root vegetable and finally to Mae Stella herself.My turn comes and I do my best to follow suit. \"You are blessed,\" whispers Mae Stella, and I breathe a sigh of relief. In truth, I'm slightly disappointed the ceremony hasn't included the infamous Candombl\u00e9 act of casting out bad spirits in a body-convulsing trance, but, nonetheless, I leave with the undeniable thrill of having been the only non-local in attendance.In times when it can seem like tourism has left no stone unturned, a good shortcut to more individual travel experiences is hospitalityclub's groups page. It offers no shortage of inspiration, and you can find a local host who shares your special interests or who can introduce you to something new.As if that wasn't generous enough, I later find out that Lucia is agreeing to host me, despite being midway through chemotherapy from breast cancer. \"Tomorrow is my next treatment, and my 40th birthday,\" she tells me, when I turn up on her doorstep in the beach suburb of Pituba. Surely this isn't a good time to be hosting an unknown traveller? But she insists she likes the company. The next day, the family hosts a low-key but upbeat birthday party and everyone makes me feel welcome, especially her husband, a leading member of Brazil's communist party, and their son Theo. \"I want to speak to her more, but all I know in English is numbers and colours,\" Theo tells Lucia with sweet earnestness.My second contact is 24-year-old Fernanda from yowtrip.com, a promising new site aimed at helping travellers plan trips using local knowledge. I ask her if she's willing to show me around for an evening. \"We can surely meet,\" she replies. \"Call me and I will come to pick you up.\" She and her sister, Mariana, a fellow yowtrip member, take me straight to a hip Japanese bar and restaurant, Barth\u00f4. It's owned by a friend of theirs and in what they describe as the \"alternative and open-minded\" Rio Vermelho neighbourhood. After getting our fill of temaki rolls and people-watching, we move on to the equally stylish Agua bar in Bahia Marina, where we sit until closing time, drinking caipiroskas - the sexy Brazilian way of saying vodka with fruit and sugar.Next evening, I get a different slice of Salvador life with couchsurfing.com member Fausto, whom I found on the site following a word-of-mouth recommendation from a Hungarian site member I met further up the coast. A 32-year-old public relations officer, he has hosted over 30 travellers and says his favourite place to take guests is S\u00e3o Joaquim market. \"I like to see how they react to the mayhem,\" he says. However, for me, he has a different treat: the less-visited Ribeira neighbourhood. It's an area that used to be home to the city's upper classes, until they abandoned it after the poor moved to the opposite bay and spoilt their view. What remains is some of Salvador's most beautiful, if slightly dilapidated, architecture. It's also home to the city's best ice cream, according to Fausto, and one trip to a 1930s parlour, Sorveteria da Ribeira, leaves me more than convinced. Fausto, like all my Salvador contacts, is insistent that I come back in February for carnival, a time of year when he typically receives over 40 couchsurfing requests. As it's often tipped as the world's best, surpassing even Rio, I'm tempted and, right now, could think of nothing better than celebrating the occasion with Lucia back in good health. However, before I start fantasising about return visits, I have one last stop, Buenos Aires. Is it possible to throw a party in a foreign city, with guests you've invited through travel-networking sites? I'm about to find out ...vicky.baker@guardian.co.ukMorro de S\u00e3o Paulo  A small car-free island two hours by boat from downtown Salvador. Itacare A paradise for surfers and nature enthusiasts. Some beaches are only accessible by hiking through part of the Atlantic Forest, an experience in itself.Litoral Norte You can still find beaches without any houses, hotels or electricity close to Salvador along the north coast. Drive towards the sand dunes at Mangue Seco.Porto Seguro This is where the Portuguese first landed in Brazil. The beaches are great, and the town is famous for its nightlife.\u00b7 Felipe Coimbra is the founder of yowtrip.com", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Social networking", "Travel", "Travel websites", "Technology"], "title": "Going local in Salvador, Brazil"},{"date": "2008-05-28T09:30:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Between three and five million people took part in Sao Paulo's twelfth gay pride parade last weekend, making it the largest event of its kind anywhere in the world.The organisers of the Pride, Associa\u00e7\u00e3o da Parada do Orgulho GLBT (LGBT Pride Parade Association), \"twinned\" the event with Moscow Pride which was viciously attacked last year, as reported and experienced by Peter Tatchell here.The Moscow Pride organiser, Nikolai Alekseev flew in from Russia to be awarded a Brazilian Pride's \"Citizen Award for Respecting Diversity\" in a special ceremony last week.Over the last 10 years, Sao Paulo's LGBT Pride Parade has grown from 2,000 people in 1997 to being recognised by the Guinness Book of Records as the biggest Gay Pride event ever. The parade itself draws on Brazil's colourful carnival reputation with 20 open-decked trucks carrying sound systems down the skyscraper-lined Avenida Paulista, in the heart of Sao Paulo's financial district.The parade caps a full week of attractions, including the Cultural Gay Fair, Gay Day and the International GLS Tourism Forum, which are sponsored by the city's tourism department and Petrobras, Brazil's state-owned oil company. It also includes workshops and debates throughout the city that help to spread awareness about LGBT human rights and STD/Aids prevention.Brazil has one of the most effective anti-HIV/Aids campaigns in the world, which prevented the type of epidemic that has devastated other developing countries. Although it is the world's largest Catholic country, it has always had a very open attitude towards sexual activity. It has never criminalised same-sex sexual activity, for example, although it does not provide sexual minorities with protection against discrimination and violence, and has high recorded incidences of homophobic violence.Brazil's tourism minister, Marta Suplicy, a former Sao Paulo mayor, took part in the parade on one of its floats and said: \"This is the diversity the country wants, the diversity that we have to foster as a country seeking a tourist niche among the gay community.\" The parade attracts nearly 330,000 tourists to the city, who bring in a revenue of about $115m to the city. However, only around 5% of these tourists come from abroad, mainly from the United States and other parts of Latin America.Suplicy also called for the Brazilian Congress to pass a law making homophobia a crime, and said: \"We still see cases of homophobia in the country. That needs to change.\" Suplicy is a prominent member of the Brazilian Workers Party (PT) and is being widely tipped as a potential successor to President Lula.The law that she is proposing is being fiercely resisted by religious politicians, and it is becoming a serious political issue in the country. On a visit last year to Brazil, Pope Benedict spoke out against homosexuality and called for traditional family values to be reinforced. Organisers of the LGBT event, which was officially themed as \"Homophobia Kills! Defending the Secular State\", were quick to point out that fewer than one million had turned out for the papal visit, far fewer than attended last weekend's pride event.", "tags": ["Brazil", "LGBT rights", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "Americas"], "title": "Pride of Brazil"},{"date": "2008-04-17T09:57:43Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian president has rejected criticism that his country's production of biofuels has forced a surge in global food prices and harms the environment. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva accused critics of being driven by economic and political interests, and failing to highlight soaring oil prices and increased demand as a factor in pushing up food production costs.\"Don't tell me, for the love of God, that food is expensive because of biodiesel,\" he told reporters.\"Food is expensive because the world wasn't prepared to see millions of Chinese, Indians, Africans, Brazilians and Latin Americans eat. We want to discuss this not with passion but rationality and not from the European point of view.\" Lula made his comments following a week of protests in Brazil and Europe against the fuels made from food crops and their supposed environmental and social consequences.This week, the EU's environmental chief, Stavros Dimas, said that biofuels, which Brazil hopes to export to the EU, must now meet social and environmental conditions, and that \"the issue of sustainabilty criteria is of crucial importance.\" Scientists from the European Environment Agency urged the 27-nation bloc to drop its 10% biofuel target for road transport fuels.Lula rebuffed accusations by Jean Ziegler, the UN's special rapporteur for the right to food, that biofuels were a \"crime against humanity\".\"The real crime against humanity is to discredit biofuels a priori and condemn food-starved and energy-starved countries to dependence and insecurity,\" Lula said. Some of Brazil's neighbours, led by oil-rich Venezuela, warned this week that biofuels could increase malnutrition in Latin America. Lula said he was \"shocked\" that biofuel critics failed to mention the impact that high oil prices had on food production costs.\"It's always easier to hide economic and political interests behind supposed social and environmental interests,\" he said. The growing criticism has placed Brazil at the centre of the global biofuels debate. The country has enjoyed an agricultural export boom, and has become the world's largest exporter of ethanol, which is derived from sugar cane. Critics say the increased production of crops for ethanol and biodiesel, which is derived from oil seeds, competes for land with food crops, and is pushing cattle ranchers and farmers further north in Brazil, contributing to the destruction of the Amazon rainforest. But the Brazilian government has argued that it has plenty of unused land to plant crops for biofuels and that current production was still too small to affect food prices.", "tags": ["Biofuels", "Food", "Energy", "Environment", "Brazil", "European Union", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil rejects biofuels criticism"},{"date": "2008-06-20T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "There's a direct correlation between the shortening queue of Brazilians in front of me and my rising sense of panic. I've come to the poor outer district of Retiro to meet Mae (Mother) Stella, a revered leader of the region's Afro-Brazilian religion, Candombl\u00e9. She's a gentle-looking 84-year-old, but she is held in such high esteem in the Il\u00e9 Ax\u00e9 Op\u00f4 Afonj\u00e1 compound that I am terrified of making a faux pas. Or I should say another faux pas: I've already made one by arriving in trousers, causing someone to run to fetch me a billowing African skirt.I'm here on the advice of a local psychologist called Lucia, whom I met through hospitalityclub.org. Although she can't join me, she recommended the centre as offering a genuine, non-tourist-driven ceremony, which she has attended many times, \"out of curiosity, and because it feels good\". However, with no host to translate from Portuguese - or Yoruba, the enclave's second language - all I can do is watch and copy. The congregation takes turns to lie face down on a dusty carpet and point their bodies at items around the altar - a conch shell, maracas, a giant root vegetable and finally to Mae Stella herself.My turn comes and I do my best to follow suit. \"You are blessed,\" whispers Mae Stella, and I breathe a sigh of relief. In truth, I'm slightly disappointed the ceremony hasn't included the infamous Candombl\u00e9 act of casting out bad spirits in a body-convulsing trance, but, nonetheless, I leave with the undeniable thrill of having been the only non-local in attendance.In times when it can seem like tourism has left no stone unturned, a good shortcut to more individual travel experiences is hospitalityclub's groups page. It offers no shortage of inspiration, and you can find a local host who shares your special interests or who can introduce you to something new.As if that wasn't generous enough, I later find out that Lucia is agreeing to host me, despite being midway through chemotherapy from breast cancer. \"Tomorrow is my next treatment, and my 40th birthday,\" she tells me, when I turn up on her doorstep in the beach suburb of Pituba. Surely this isn't a good time to be hosting an unknown traveller? But she insists she likes the company. The next day, the family hosts a low-key but upbeat birthday party and everyone makes me feel welcome, especially her husband, a leading member of Brazil's communist party, and their son Theo. \"I want to speak to her more, but all I know in English is numbers and colours,\" Theo tells Lucia with sweet earnestness.My second contact is 24-year-old Fernanda from yowtrip.com, a promising new site aimed at helping travellers plan trips using local knowledge. I ask her if she's willing to show me around for an evening. \"We can surely meet,\" she replies. \"Call me and I will come to pick you up.\" She and her sister, Mariana, a fellow yowtrip member, take me straight to a hip Japanese bar and restaurant, Barth\u00f4. It's owned by a friend of theirs and in what they describe as the \"alternative and open-minded\" Rio Vermelho neighbourhood. After getting our fill of temaki rolls and people-watching, we move on to the equally stylish Agua bar in Bahia Marina, where we sit until closing time, drinking caipiroskas - the sexy Brazilian way of saying vodka with fruit and sugar.Next evening, I get a different slice of Salvador life with couchsurfing.com member Fausto, whom I found on the site following a word-of-mouth recommendation from a Hungarian site member I met further up the coast. A 32-year-old public relations officer, he has hosted over 30 travellers and says his favourite place to take guests is S\u00e3o Joaquim market. \"I like to see how they react to the mayhem,\" he says. However, for me, he has a different treat: the less-visited Ribeira neighbourhood. It's an area that used to be home to the city's upper classes, until they abandoned it after the poor moved to the opposite bay and spoilt their view. What remains is some of Salvador's most beautiful, if slightly dilapidated, architecture. It's also home to the city's best ice cream, according to Fausto, and one trip to a 1930s parlour, Sorveteria da Ribeira, leaves me more than convinced. Fausto, like all my Salvador contacts, is insistent that I come back in February for carnival, a time of year when he typically receives over 40 couchsurfing requests. As it's often tipped as the world's best, surpassing even Rio, I'm tempted and, right now, could think of nothing better than celebrating the occasion with Lucia back in good health. However, before I start fantasising about return visits, I have one last stop, Buenos Aires. Is it possible to throw a party in a foreign city, with guests you've invited through travel-networking sites? I'm about to find out ...vicky.baker@guardian.co.ukMorro de S\u00e3o Paulo  A small car-free island two hours by boat from downtown Salvador. Itacare A paradise for surfers and nature enthusiasts. Some beaches are only accessible by hiking through part of the Atlantic Forest, an experience in itself.Litoral Norte You can still find beaches without any houses, hotels or electricity close to Salvador along the north coast. Drive towards the sand dunes at Mangue Seco.Porto Seguro This is where the Portuguese first landed in Brazil. The beaches are great, and the town is famous for its nightlife.\u00b7 Felipe Coimbra is the founder of yowtrip.com", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Social networking", "Travel", "Travel websites", "Technology"], "title": "Going local in Salvador, Brazil"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "'This is a strange request,\" I write in an email to Oriana, a 23-year-old Brazilian student based in Edinburgh, \"but I'd really like to meet your mum.\"I'd been looking through couchsurfing.com's database of members in Bel\u00e9m, the Brazilian city at the mouth of the Amazon. Out of 49 local members willing to let a traveller stay in their home for free, one newcomer to the site caught my eye: Lucinea, Oriana's mother. \"My daughter is a very active member,\" says her profile. \"She's the one who told me about it.\" I'm instantly drawn to the idea of an older-generation couchsurfer inspired by her daughter's experiences. However, with Lucinea not speaking English and my complete lack of Portuguese, making arrangements isn't straightforward and I find myself calling on Oriana, who is listed as one of her \"couchsurfing friends\", to act as an intermediary. \"You're more than welcome to stay,\" Oriana replies almost immediately. Plus, as an added bonus, she'll be back from Edinburgh that week too, using her university holidays to \"get some mama loving\". It soon becomes apparent that mama loving is not in short supply. When I arrive at Lucinea's tiny one-bedroom apartment, she has already adopted a French couchsurfer called Nico, who's been staying for a week. \"She adores him,\" whispers Oriana, whose time in Edinburgh has given her a distinct Scots lilt. \"She's taking him to the airport later and I'm sure there'll be tears.\"If you needed proof that the couchsurfing phenomenon has spread beyond the low-income, early-20s bracket, this Bel\u00e9m apartment is it: Lucinea, the fiftysomething divorcee, looking to meet new people now her children have left home, and Nico, the mid-30s stock trader, who could easily afford a flash hotel yet prefers the friendliness of a homestay.While Lucinea is at the airport with Nico, Oriana takes me to the weekly artisan market in the city's attractive main square, Pra\u00e7a da Rep\u00fablica. Under a shady walkway of mango trees, we pass vendors touting Amazonian fruit juices, capoeira instruments, tiny crocheted bikinis, elaborate wooden necklaces, and all manner of snacks, from crab cakes to fresh coconuts. Oriana tells me Bel\u00e9m was at its peak during Brazil's 19th-century rubber boom and we tour some of its grandest sites, built on the back of the industry, including the imposing opera house, Teatro da Paz. \"The problem was, just as the city was thriving, an Englishman came to the Amazon to look for rubber-tree seeds, smuggled them back to London and then established farms in Asia. Our industry collapsed.\" As tropical storm clouds gather above, we head back to the flat. We find Lucinea hard at work, in front of a huge pile of books. On top of her day job working for a bank, she's enrolled at night school to get the literature degree she never had time for as a young mother with five children. \"My dream,\" she tells me, \"is to do a masters in Spain.\"The following day, I want to give mother and daughter time to catch up with each other, so I set off to amuse myself around town, admiring the old Portuguese houses and the stylish new waterfront development, where pavement cafes overlook the Amazon. Then, come evening, I have a meeting with another Bel\u00e9m couchsurfer, Ricardo, a 28-year-old video editor.Ricardo takes me to a bar called Cosanostra (Travessa Benjamin Constant, 1499), with a cosy wooden interior and live band playing samba and bossa nova. Like many couchsurfers, Ricardo is open and easygoing, and there is no introductory awkwardness. \"I have lived alone since I was 17 and have always had an open door,\" he says. But hasn't he ever worried about security? He looks baffled. \"I think it's highly unlikely someone will come all the way from Europe to steal my VCR.\"Ricardo has hosted over 40 people and, inevitably, has racked up many stories. My favourite is the one about the couchsurfer who found out Ricardo was an amateur boxer and wanted to re-enact Fight Club. \"Senhor Ricardo! Senhor Ricardo! Are you really going to hit him?\" asked the wide-eyed doorman outside his apartment, as the guy continued to insist. \"In the end, I hit him,\" recalls Ricardo, matter-of-factly, \"but then he kicked me, hurt himself in the process, and he had to delay his boat trip up the Amazon.\"Ricardo's tales keep me so entertained that, before I know it, it's 3am. Fortunately, I forewarned Lucinea I would be back late. \"No problem. Enjoy yourself,\" she said, giving me a key so I could quietly let myself into her place and flop on the spare mattress laid out in the living room. The next day, she and Oriana take me to the city zoo, where the thick Amazonian foliage makes you momentarily feel like you are in the heart of the jungle. We have a great day and they both seem happy to have me tag along. However, there comes a line that I'm always wary of crossing: overstaying my welcome. The time seems right to move on and, besides, I've got a lot of ground to cover to get down Brazil's 9,000km-plus coastline. Forget about Facebook, MySpace and Bebo - Brazilians swear by the social networking site Orkut. Developed by Google, and named after one of its engineers, Orkut.com is Brazil's most visited website, and almost every internet user in the country has an account. Travellers to Brazil may find Orkut membership useful as many hotels, bars and tour companies have pages on the site. It also hosts thousands of travel-related subcommunities, including groups for users of couchsurfing and hospitalityclub, and it is an easy way to keep in touch with the locals you meet along the way. You could also give Orkut a try in India, where it is the second most visited site. Just don't bother in the US, where it sank without a trace, and was dubbed the \"David Hasselhoff of social networking\", in reference to the American star's heroic status abroad (namely in Germany) that was never matched domestically.Caf\u00e9 Imagin\u00e1rio (Quintino Bocai\u00fava, 1086) Where Bel\u00e9m's painters, poets and musicians hang out. Come for live music and famous jambu pizza, made with a local herb. Amazon Beer (Esta\u00e7\u00e3o das Docas, Boulevard Castilho Fran\u00e7a) A micro-brewery that produces the best local beer. During happy hour (Mon-Wed, 6.30pm-9pm) you pay R$24 (around \u00a37.45) for a big buffet and all you can drink. Or try feijoada, a bean and meat stew which is the national dish, on Saturdays. Boteco das Onze (Pra\u00e7a Frei Caetano Brand\u00e3o) A beautiful bar that looks like an old European tavern in a 17th-century house with excellent food and a great view over Guajar\u00e1 Bay.vicky.baker@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel", "Travel websites", "Social networking", "Travelling solo"], "title": "Going local in Bel\u00e9m, Brazil"},{"date": "2008-05-28T09:30:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Between three and five million people took part in Sao Paulo's twelfth gay pride parade last weekend, making it the largest event of its kind anywhere in the world.The organisers of the Pride, Associa\u00e7\u00e3o da Parada do Orgulho GLBT (LGBT Pride Parade Association), \"twinned\" the event with Moscow Pride which was viciously attacked last year, as reported and experienced by Peter Tatchell here.The Moscow Pride organiser, Nikolai Alekseev flew in from Russia to be awarded a Brazilian Pride's \"Citizen Award for Respecting Diversity\" in a special ceremony last week.Over the last 10 years, Sao Paulo's LGBT Pride Parade has grown from 2,000 people in 1997 to being recognised by the Guinness Book of Records as the biggest Gay Pride event ever. The parade itself draws on Brazil's colourful carnival reputation with 20 open-decked trucks carrying sound systems down the skyscraper-lined Avenida Paulista, in the heart of Sao Paulo's financial district.The parade caps a full week of attractions, including the Cultural Gay Fair, Gay Day and the International GLS Tourism Forum, which are sponsored by the city's tourism department and Petrobras, Brazil's state-owned oil company. It also includes workshops and debates throughout the city that help to spread awareness about LGBT human rights and STD/Aids prevention.Brazil has one of the most effective anti-HIV/Aids campaigns in the world, which prevented the type of epidemic that has devastated other developing countries. Although it is the world's largest Catholic country, it has always had a very open attitude towards sexual activity. It has never criminalised same-sex sexual activity, for example, although it does not provide sexual minorities with protection against discrimination and violence, and has high recorded incidences of homophobic violence.Brazil's tourism minister, Marta Suplicy, a former Sao Paulo mayor, took part in the parade on one of its floats and said: \"This is the diversity the country wants, the diversity that we have to foster as a country seeking a tourist niche among the gay community.\" The parade attracts nearly 330,000 tourists to the city, who bring in a revenue of about $115m to the city. However, only around 5% of these tourists come from abroad, mainly from the United States and other parts of Latin America.Suplicy also called for the Brazilian Congress to pass a law making homophobia a crime, and said: \"We still see cases of homophobia in the country. That needs to change.\" Suplicy is a prominent member of the Brazilian Workers Party (PT) and is being widely tipped as a potential successor to President Lula.The law that she is proposing is being fiercely resisted by religious politicians, and it is becoming a serious political issue in the country. On a visit last year to Brazil, Pope Benedict spoke out against homosexuality and called for traditional family values to be reinforced. Organisers of the LGBT event, which was officially themed as \"Homophobia Kills! Defending the Secular State\", were quick to point out that fewer than one million had turned out for the papal visit, far fewer than attended last weekend's pride event.", "tags": ["Brazil", "LGBT rights", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "Americas"], "title": "Pride of Brazil"},{"date": "2008-04-17T09:57:43Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian president has rejected criticism that his country's production of biofuels has forced a surge in global food prices and harms the environment. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva accused critics of being driven by economic and political interests, and failing to highlight soaring oil prices and increased demand as a factor in pushing up food production costs.\"Don't tell me, for the love of God, that food is expensive because of biodiesel,\" he told reporters.\"Food is expensive because the world wasn't prepared to see millions of Chinese, Indians, Africans, Brazilians and Latin Americans eat. We want to discuss this not with passion but rationality and not from the European point of view.\" Lula made his comments following a week of protests in Brazil and Europe against the fuels made from food crops and their supposed environmental and social consequences.This week, the EU's environmental chief, Stavros Dimas, said that biofuels, which Brazil hopes to export to the EU, must now meet social and environmental conditions, and that \"the issue of sustainabilty criteria is of crucial importance.\" Scientists from the European Environment Agency urged the 27-nation bloc to drop its 10% biofuel target for road transport fuels.Lula rebuffed accusations by Jean Ziegler, the UN's special rapporteur for the right to food, that biofuels were a \"crime against humanity\".\"The real crime against humanity is to discredit biofuels a priori and condemn food-starved and energy-starved countries to dependence and insecurity,\" Lula said. Some of Brazil's neighbours, led by oil-rich Venezuela, warned this week that biofuels could increase malnutrition in Latin America. Lula said he was \"shocked\" that biofuel critics failed to mention the impact that high oil prices had on food production costs.\"It's always easier to hide economic and political interests behind supposed social and environmental interests,\" he said. The growing criticism has placed Brazil at the centre of the global biofuels debate. The country has enjoyed an agricultural export boom, and has become the world's largest exporter of ethanol, which is derived from sugar cane. Critics say the increased production of crops for ethanol and biodiesel, which is derived from oil seeds, competes for land with food crops, and is pushing cattle ranchers and farmers further north in Brazil, contributing to the destruction of the Amazon rainforest. But the Brazilian government has argued that it has plenty of unused land to plant crops for biofuels and that current production was still too small to affect food prices.", "tags": ["Biofuels", "Food", "Energy", "Environment", "Brazil", "European Union", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil rejects biofuels criticism"},{"date": "2008-06-20T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "There's a direct correlation between the shortening queue of Brazilians in front of me and my rising sense of panic. I've come to the poor outer district of Retiro to meet Mae (Mother) Stella, a revered leader of the region's Afro-Brazilian religion, Candombl\u00e9. She's a gentle-looking 84-year-old, but she is held in such high esteem in the Il\u00e9 Ax\u00e9 Op\u00f4 Afonj\u00e1 compound that I am terrified of making a faux pas. Or I should say another faux pas: I've already made one by arriving in trousers, causing someone to run to fetch me a billowing African skirt.I'm here on the advice of a local psychologist called Lucia, whom I met through hospitalityclub.org. Although she can't join me, she recommended the centre as offering a genuine, non-tourist-driven ceremony, which she has attended many times, \"out of curiosity, and because it feels good\". However, with no host to translate from Portuguese - or Yoruba, the enclave's second language - all I can do is watch and copy. The congregation takes turns to lie face down on a dusty carpet and point their bodies at items around the altar - a conch shell, maracas, a giant root vegetable and finally to Mae Stella herself.My turn comes and I do my best to follow suit. \"You are blessed,\" whispers Mae Stella, and I breathe a sigh of relief. In truth, I'm slightly disappointed the ceremony hasn't included the infamous Candombl\u00e9 act of casting out bad spirits in a body-convulsing trance, but, nonetheless, I leave with the undeniable thrill of having been the only non-local in attendance.In times when it can seem like tourism has left no stone unturned, a good shortcut to more individual travel experiences is hospitalityclub's groups page. It offers no shortage of inspiration, and you can find a local host who shares your special interests or who can introduce you to something new.As if that wasn't generous enough, I later find out that Lucia is agreeing to host me, despite being midway through chemotherapy from breast cancer. \"Tomorrow is my next treatment, and my 40th birthday,\" she tells me, when I turn up on her doorstep in the beach suburb of Pituba. Surely this isn't a good time to be hosting an unknown traveller? But she insists she likes the company. The next day, the family hosts a low-key but upbeat birthday party and everyone makes me feel welcome, especially her husband, a leading member of Brazil's communist party, and their son Theo. \"I want to speak to her more, but all I know in English is numbers and colours,\" Theo tells Lucia with sweet earnestness.My second contact is 24-year-old Fernanda from yowtrip.com, a promising new site aimed at helping travellers plan trips using local knowledge. I ask her if she's willing to show me around for an evening. \"We can surely meet,\" she replies. \"Call me and I will come to pick you up.\" She and her sister, Mariana, a fellow yowtrip member, take me straight to a hip Japanese bar and restaurant, Barth\u00f4. It's owned by a friend of theirs and in what they describe as the \"alternative and open-minded\" Rio Vermelho neighbourhood. After getting our fill of temaki rolls and people-watching, we move on to the equally stylish Agua bar in Bahia Marina, where we sit until closing time, drinking caipiroskas - the sexy Brazilian way of saying vodka with fruit and sugar.Next evening, I get a different slice of Salvador life with couchsurfing.com member Fausto, whom I found on the site following a word-of-mouth recommendation from a Hungarian site member I met further up the coast. A 32-year-old public relations officer, he has hosted over 30 travellers and says his favourite place to take guests is S\u00e3o Joaquim market. \"I like to see how they react to the mayhem,\" he says. However, for me, he has a different treat: the less-visited Ribeira neighbourhood. It's an area that used to be home to the city's upper classes, until they abandoned it after the poor moved to the opposite bay and spoilt their view. What remains is some of Salvador's most beautiful, if slightly dilapidated, architecture. It's also home to the city's best ice cream, according to Fausto, and one trip to a 1930s parlour, Sorveteria da Ribeira, leaves me more than convinced. Fausto, like all my Salvador contacts, is insistent that I come back in February for carnival, a time of year when he typically receives over 40 couchsurfing requests. As it's often tipped as the world's best, surpassing even Rio, I'm tempted and, right now, could think of nothing better than celebrating the occasion with Lucia back in good health. However, before I start fantasising about return visits, I have one last stop, Buenos Aires. Is it possible to throw a party in a foreign city, with guests you've invited through travel-networking sites? I'm about to find out ...vicky.baker@guardian.co.ukMorro de S\u00e3o Paulo  A small car-free island two hours by boat from downtown Salvador. Itacare A paradise for surfers and nature enthusiasts. Some beaches are only accessible by hiking through part of the Atlantic Forest, an experience in itself.Litoral Norte You can still find beaches without any houses, hotels or electricity close to Salvador along the north coast. Drive towards the sand dunes at Mangue Seco.Porto Seguro This is where the Portuguese first landed in Brazil. The beaches are great, and the town is famous for its nightlife.\u00b7 Felipe Coimbra is the founder of yowtrip.com", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Social networking", "Travel", "Travel websites", "Technology"], "title": "Going local in Salvador, Brazil"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "'This is a strange request,\" I write in an email to Oriana, a 23-year-old Brazilian student based in Edinburgh, \"but I'd really like to meet your mum.\"I'd been looking through couchsurfing.com's database of members in Bel\u00e9m, the Brazilian city at the mouth of the Amazon. Out of 49 local members willing to let a traveller stay in their home for free, one newcomer to the site caught my eye: Lucinea, Oriana's mother. \"My daughter is a very active member,\" says her profile. \"She's the one who told me about it.\" I'm instantly drawn to the idea of an older-generation couchsurfer inspired by her daughter's experiences. However, with Lucinea not speaking English and my complete lack of Portuguese, making arrangements isn't straightforward and I find myself calling on Oriana, who is listed as one of her \"couchsurfing friends\", to act as an intermediary. \"You're more than welcome to stay,\" Oriana replies almost immediately. Plus, as an added bonus, she'll be back from Edinburgh that week too, using her university holidays to \"get some mama loving\". It soon becomes apparent that mama loving is not in short supply. When I arrive at Lucinea's tiny one-bedroom apartment, she has already adopted a French couchsurfer called Nico, who's been staying for a week. \"She adores him,\" whispers Oriana, whose time in Edinburgh has given her a distinct Scots lilt. \"She's taking him to the airport later and I'm sure there'll be tears.\"If you needed proof that the couchsurfing phenomenon has spread beyond the low-income, early-20s bracket, this Bel\u00e9m apartment is it: Lucinea, the fiftysomething divorcee, looking to meet new people now her children have left home, and Nico, the mid-30s stock trader, who could easily afford a flash hotel yet prefers the friendliness of a homestay.While Lucinea is at the airport with Nico, Oriana takes me to the weekly artisan market in the city's attractive main square, Pra\u00e7a da Rep\u00fablica. Under a shady walkway of mango trees, we pass vendors touting Amazonian fruit juices, capoeira instruments, tiny crocheted bikinis, elaborate wooden necklaces, and all manner of snacks, from crab cakes to fresh coconuts. Oriana tells me Bel\u00e9m was at its peak during Brazil's 19th-century rubber boom and we tour some of its grandest sites, built on the back of the industry, including the imposing opera house, Teatro da Paz. \"The problem was, just as the city was thriving, an Englishman came to the Amazon to look for rubber-tree seeds, smuggled them back to London and then established farms in Asia. Our industry collapsed.\" As tropical storm clouds gather above, we head back to the flat. We find Lucinea hard at work, in front of a huge pile of books. On top of her day job working for a bank, she's enrolled at night school to get the literature degree she never had time for as a young mother with five children. \"My dream,\" she tells me, \"is to do a masters in Spain.\"The following day, I want to give mother and daughter time to catch up with each other, so I set off to amuse myself around town, admiring the old Portuguese houses and the stylish new waterfront development, where pavement cafes overlook the Amazon. Then, come evening, I have a meeting with another Bel\u00e9m couchsurfer, Ricardo, a 28-year-old video editor.Ricardo takes me to a bar called Cosanostra (Travessa Benjamin Constant, 1499), with a cosy wooden interior and live band playing samba and bossa nova. Like many couchsurfers, Ricardo is open and easygoing, and there is no introductory awkwardness. \"I have lived alone since I was 17 and have always had an open door,\" he says. But hasn't he ever worried about security? He looks baffled. \"I think it's highly unlikely someone will come all the way from Europe to steal my VCR.\"Ricardo has hosted over 40 people and, inevitably, has racked up many stories. My favourite is the one about the couchsurfer who found out Ricardo was an amateur boxer and wanted to re-enact Fight Club. \"Senhor Ricardo! Senhor Ricardo! Are you really going to hit him?\" asked the wide-eyed doorman outside his apartment, as the guy continued to insist. \"In the end, I hit him,\" recalls Ricardo, matter-of-factly, \"but then he kicked me, hurt himself in the process, and he had to delay his boat trip up the Amazon.\"Ricardo's tales keep me so entertained that, before I know it, it's 3am. Fortunately, I forewarned Lucinea I would be back late. \"No problem. Enjoy yourself,\" she said, giving me a key so I could quietly let myself into her place and flop on the spare mattress laid out in the living room. The next day, she and Oriana take me to the city zoo, where the thick Amazonian foliage makes you momentarily feel like you are in the heart of the jungle. We have a great day and they both seem happy to have me tag along. However, there comes a line that I'm always wary of crossing: overstaying my welcome. The time seems right to move on and, besides, I've got a lot of ground to cover to get down Brazil's 9,000km-plus coastline. Forget about Facebook, MySpace and Bebo - Brazilians swear by the social networking site Orkut. Developed by Google, and named after one of its engineers, Orkut.com is Brazil's most visited website, and almost every internet user in the country has an account. Travellers to Brazil may find Orkut membership useful as many hotels, bars and tour companies have pages on the site. It also hosts thousands of travel-related subcommunities, including groups for users of couchsurfing and hospitalityclub, and it is an easy way to keep in touch with the locals you meet along the way. You could also give Orkut a try in India, where it is the second most visited site. Just don't bother in the US, where it sank without a trace, and was dubbed the \"David Hasselhoff of social networking\", in reference to the American star's heroic status abroad (namely in Germany) that was never matched domestically.Caf\u00e9 Imagin\u00e1rio (Quintino Bocai\u00fava, 1086) Where Bel\u00e9m's painters, poets and musicians hang out. Come for live music and famous jambu pizza, made with a local herb. Amazon Beer (Esta\u00e7\u00e3o das Docas, Boulevard Castilho Fran\u00e7a) A micro-brewery that produces the best local beer. During happy hour (Mon-Wed, 6.30pm-9pm) you pay R$24 (around \u00a37.45) for a big buffet and all you can drink. Or try feijoada, a bean and meat stew which is the national dish, on Saturdays. Boteco das Onze (Pra\u00e7a Frei Caetano Brand\u00e3o) A beautiful bar that looks like an old European tavern in a 17th-century house with excellent food and a great view over Guajar\u00e1 Bay.vicky.baker@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel", "Travel websites", "Social networking", "Travelling solo"], "title": "Going local in Bel\u00e9m, Brazil"},{"date": "2008-06-13T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Forging friendships, establishing cultural exchanges, promoting world peace ... Most hospitality websites insist they offer more than just a free place to stay. All, that is, but the unashamedly named globalfreeloaders.com. Globalfreeloaders doesn't have the community feel of rival sites, or the same level of membership (just 46,000 to couchsurfing's 570,000). The website's design has also held it back, with member profiles consisting of just a paragraph of text and no pictures. Unless it undergoes a dramatic overhaul, it may go the same way as sites such as the now defunct Travelhoo and Tripup. Nonetheless, I am determined to give globalfreeloaders a chance. It's not easy to find someone suitable or even someone who will reply, but, after weeks of trying, I finally find my first host: Gustavo, a 20-year-old medical student from Fortaleza. I had no burning desire to visit Fortaleza - a coastal city described by my guidebook as \"a sprawling commercial centre with little touristic appeal\" - but I am instantly charmed by Gustavo's enthusiasm. He tells me I am the only person to have contacted him since he registered on the site a year ago, and he seems eager to pull out the stops for my visit. On Saturday morning, he meets me at the bus station with his brother Victor, who is 22, and takes me to the stylishly decorated apartment they share with their mother, a funky-dressing lawyer with a sideline in interior design. Over the next two days, they take me to a samba gig at the Orbita bar, for \"the best crab in town\" amid a grove of palm trees on Porto das Dunas beach, and to ride a stomach-churning, 14-storey waterslide (beachpark.com.br).Admittedly, the waterpark isn't the most authentic experience I've had, but I do have an only-in-Brazil moment when I almost get banned from riding the slides because my bikini shorts aren't skimpy enough. \"They might get caught,\" the female lifeguard tells me in all seriousness. The ever-polite Gustavo and Victor make me very glad I took a gamble on globalfreeloaders and on Fortaleza. However, when Monday comes around, it's time to bid the boys farewell and head for Jericoacoara, Brazil's most-hyped beach town.With a curve of expansive beaches, surrounded by giant sand dunes, Jericoacoara's scenery is jaw-dropping. Less than 10 years ago, it was a tiny fishing village without electricity, but word soon spread. Now its main trade is dune-buggy rides, sandboarding and kitesurfing. It even has an Italian-owned resort charging up to \u00a3300 a night. My first contact is Ingrid, a new member of hospitalityclub.org who claims to be one of the Jeri \"pioneers\". A regular here since the 1980s, she bought land to build a guesthouse seven years ago (jeriathome.com). Ingrid can't offer free accommodation and so uses hospitalityclub for the same reason she uses Virtual Tourist and Lonely Planet's Thorntree forum: to promote Jeri. She insists she doesn't break site rules to advertise her guesthouse, but will mention it \"if someone happens to ask if I know a good place\". I ask Ingrid if she can help me to meet more Jeri locals, so she takes me to the beach, where, just outside one of the town's most expensive bars, we find her favourite barraca, a mobile cart selling beers and cocktails. We pull up some plastic stools and she introduces me to two young capoeira instructors, Nacilio and Wesley. Both are concerned about how rapid development is affecting the area's natural environment. However, they also talk of the opportunities tourism has brought. \"I love being my own boss here,\" Wesley says. \"I would never have been able to travel otherwise.\" \"And I wouldn't have learned to kitesurf,\" adds Nacilio. My only disappointment is that I didn't meet Ingrid earlier. The day before, she had taken some French guests on an alternative tour, away from the buggy trips. \"We were the only ones on the dunes,\" she says. \"We found a tiny village and some beautiful lakes. It was a real adventure.\"My timing is better when meeting my next hospitalityclub contact, 25-year-old Paula, who works at Jeri's most upmarket resort. On the night we meet she's hosting a cocktail evening in the apartment she shares with Roberta, a member of couchsurfing.com. Their house speciality is a vodka-enhanced chocolate milkshake, with a dash of guaran\u00e1 for energy. A pick-me-up is certainly something you need for a Brazilian night out. The forr\u00f3, a typical northeastern dance party that we're warming up for, doesn't get started until 2am. It's not easy being rhythmically challenged in Brazil, but my first foray into forr\u00f3 isn't nearly as disastrous as my attempts at salsa and samba. However, I'm sure my biggest challenge lies at my next stop: the country's music capital, Salvador. vicky.baker@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel websites", "Social networking", "Travel"], "title": "Going local in north-east Brazil"},{"date": "2008-05-28T09:30:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Between three and five million people took part in Sao Paulo's twelfth gay pride parade last weekend, making it the largest event of its kind anywhere in the world.The organisers of the Pride, Associa\u00e7\u00e3o da Parada do Orgulho GLBT (LGBT Pride Parade Association), \"twinned\" the event with Moscow Pride which was viciously attacked last year, as reported and experienced by Peter Tatchell here.The Moscow Pride organiser, Nikolai Alekseev flew in from Russia to be awarded a Brazilian Pride's \"Citizen Award for Respecting Diversity\" in a special ceremony last week.Over the last 10 years, Sao Paulo's LGBT Pride Parade has grown from 2,000 people in 1997 to being recognised by the Guinness Book of Records as the biggest Gay Pride event ever. The parade itself draws on Brazil's colourful carnival reputation with 20 open-decked trucks carrying sound systems down the skyscraper-lined Avenida Paulista, in the heart of Sao Paulo's financial district.The parade caps a full week of attractions, including the Cultural Gay Fair, Gay Day and the International GLS Tourism Forum, which are sponsored by the city's tourism department and Petrobras, Brazil's state-owned oil company. It also includes workshops and debates throughout the city that help to spread awareness about LGBT human rights and STD/Aids prevention.Brazil has one of the most effective anti-HIV/Aids campaigns in the world, which prevented the type of epidemic that has devastated other developing countries. Although it is the world's largest Catholic country, it has always had a very open attitude towards sexual activity. It has never criminalised same-sex sexual activity, for example, although it does not provide sexual minorities with protection against discrimination and violence, and has high recorded incidences of homophobic violence.Brazil's tourism minister, Marta Suplicy, a former Sao Paulo mayor, took part in the parade on one of its floats and said: \"This is the diversity the country wants, the diversity that we have to foster as a country seeking a tourist niche among the gay community.\" The parade attracts nearly 330,000 tourists to the city, who bring in a revenue of about $115m to the city. However, only around 5% of these tourists come from abroad, mainly from the United States and other parts of Latin America.Suplicy also called for the Brazilian Congress to pass a law making homophobia a crime, and said: \"We still see cases of homophobia in the country. That needs to change.\" Suplicy is a prominent member of the Brazilian Workers Party (PT) and is being widely tipped as a potential successor to President Lula.The law that she is proposing is being fiercely resisted by religious politicians, and it is becoming a serious political issue in the country. On a visit last year to Brazil, Pope Benedict spoke out against homosexuality and called for traditional family values to be reinforced. Organisers of the LGBT event, which was officially themed as \"Homophobia Kills! Defending the Secular State\", were quick to point out that fewer than one million had turned out for the papal visit, far fewer than attended last weekend's pride event.", "tags": ["Brazil", "LGBT rights", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "Americas"], "title": "Pride of Brazil"},{"date": "2008-04-17T09:57:43Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian president has rejected criticism that his country's production of biofuels has forced a surge in global food prices and harms the environment. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva accused critics of being driven by economic and political interests, and failing to highlight soaring oil prices and increased demand as a factor in pushing up food production costs.\"Don't tell me, for the love of God, that food is expensive because of biodiesel,\" he told reporters.\"Food is expensive because the world wasn't prepared to see millions of Chinese, Indians, Africans, Brazilians and Latin Americans eat. We want to discuss this not with passion but rationality and not from the European point of view.\" Lula made his comments following a week of protests in Brazil and Europe against the fuels made from food crops and their supposed environmental and social consequences.This week, the EU's environmental chief, Stavros Dimas, said that biofuels, which Brazil hopes to export to the EU, must now meet social and environmental conditions, and that \"the issue of sustainabilty criteria is of crucial importance.\" Scientists from the European Environment Agency urged the 27-nation bloc to drop its 10% biofuel target for road transport fuels.Lula rebuffed accusations by Jean Ziegler, the UN's special rapporteur for the right to food, that biofuels were a \"crime against humanity\".\"The real crime against humanity is to discredit biofuels a priori and condemn food-starved and energy-starved countries to dependence and insecurity,\" Lula said. Some of Brazil's neighbours, led by oil-rich Venezuela, warned this week that biofuels could increase malnutrition in Latin America. Lula said he was \"shocked\" that biofuel critics failed to mention the impact that high oil prices had on food production costs.\"It's always easier to hide economic and political interests behind supposed social and environmental interests,\" he said. The growing criticism has placed Brazil at the centre of the global biofuels debate. The country has enjoyed an agricultural export boom, and has become the world's largest exporter of ethanol, which is derived from sugar cane. Critics say the increased production of crops for ethanol and biodiesel, which is derived from oil seeds, competes for land with food crops, and is pushing cattle ranchers and farmers further north in Brazil, contributing to the destruction of the Amazon rainforest. But the Brazilian government has argued that it has plenty of unused land to plant crops for biofuels and that current production was still too small to affect food prices.", "tags": ["Biofuels", "Food", "Energy", "Environment", "Brazil", "European Union", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil rejects biofuels criticism"},{"date": "2008-06-20T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "There's a direct correlation between the shortening queue of Brazilians in front of me and my rising sense of panic. I've come to the poor outer district of Retiro to meet Mae (Mother) Stella, a revered leader of the region's Afro-Brazilian religion, Candombl\u00e9. She's a gentle-looking 84-year-old, but she is held in such high esteem in the Il\u00e9 Ax\u00e9 Op\u00f4 Afonj\u00e1 compound that I am terrified of making a faux pas. Or I should say another faux pas: I've already made one by arriving in trousers, causing someone to run to fetch me a billowing African skirt.I'm here on the advice of a local psychologist called Lucia, whom I met through hospitalityclub.org. Although she can't join me, she recommended the centre as offering a genuine, non-tourist-driven ceremony, which she has attended many times, \"out of curiosity, and because it feels good\". However, with no host to translate from Portuguese - or Yoruba, the enclave's second language - all I can do is watch and copy. The congregation takes turns to lie face down on a dusty carpet and point their bodies at items around the altar - a conch shell, maracas, a giant root vegetable and finally to Mae Stella herself.My turn comes and I do my best to follow suit. \"You are blessed,\" whispers Mae Stella, and I breathe a sigh of relief. In truth, I'm slightly disappointed the ceremony hasn't included the infamous Candombl\u00e9 act of casting out bad spirits in a body-convulsing trance, but, nonetheless, I leave with the undeniable thrill of having been the only non-local in attendance.In times when it can seem like tourism has left no stone unturned, a good shortcut to more individual travel experiences is hospitalityclub's groups page. It offers no shortage of inspiration, and you can find a local host who shares your special interests or who can introduce you to something new.As if that wasn't generous enough, I later find out that Lucia is agreeing to host me, despite being midway through chemotherapy from breast cancer. \"Tomorrow is my next treatment, and my 40th birthday,\" she tells me, when I turn up on her doorstep in the beach suburb of Pituba. Surely this isn't a good time to be hosting an unknown traveller? But she insists she likes the company. The next day, the family hosts a low-key but upbeat birthday party and everyone makes me feel welcome, especially her husband, a leading member of Brazil's communist party, and their son Theo. \"I want to speak to her more, but all I know in English is numbers and colours,\" Theo tells Lucia with sweet earnestness.My second contact is 24-year-old Fernanda from yowtrip.com, a promising new site aimed at helping travellers plan trips using local knowledge. I ask her if she's willing to show me around for an evening. \"We can surely meet,\" she replies. \"Call me and I will come to pick you up.\" She and her sister, Mariana, a fellow yowtrip member, take me straight to a hip Japanese bar and restaurant, Barth\u00f4. It's owned by a friend of theirs and in what they describe as the \"alternative and open-minded\" Rio Vermelho neighbourhood. After getting our fill of temaki rolls and people-watching, we move on to the equally stylish Agua bar in Bahia Marina, where we sit until closing time, drinking caipiroskas - the sexy Brazilian way of saying vodka with fruit and sugar.Next evening, I get a different slice of Salvador life with couchsurfing.com member Fausto, whom I found on the site following a word-of-mouth recommendation from a Hungarian site member I met further up the coast. A 32-year-old public relations officer, he has hosted over 30 travellers and says his favourite place to take guests is S\u00e3o Joaquim market. \"I like to see how they react to the mayhem,\" he says. However, for me, he has a different treat: the less-visited Ribeira neighbourhood. It's an area that used to be home to the city's upper classes, until they abandoned it after the poor moved to the opposite bay and spoilt their view. What remains is some of Salvador's most beautiful, if slightly dilapidated, architecture. It's also home to the city's best ice cream, according to Fausto, and one trip to a 1930s parlour, Sorveteria da Ribeira, leaves me more than convinced. Fausto, like all my Salvador contacts, is insistent that I come back in February for carnival, a time of year when he typically receives over 40 couchsurfing requests. As it's often tipped as the world's best, surpassing even Rio, I'm tempted and, right now, could think of nothing better than celebrating the occasion with Lucia back in good health. However, before I start fantasising about return visits, I have one last stop, Buenos Aires. Is it possible to throw a party in a foreign city, with guests you've invited through travel-networking sites? I'm about to find out ...vicky.baker@guardian.co.ukMorro de S\u00e3o Paulo  A small car-free island two hours by boat from downtown Salvador. Itacare A paradise for surfers and nature enthusiasts. Some beaches are only accessible by hiking through part of the Atlantic Forest, an experience in itself.Litoral Norte You can still find beaches without any houses, hotels or electricity close to Salvador along the north coast. Drive towards the sand dunes at Mangue Seco.Porto Seguro This is where the Portuguese first landed in Brazil. The beaches are great, and the town is famous for its nightlife.\u00b7 Felipe Coimbra is the founder of yowtrip.com", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Social networking", "Travel", "Travel websites", "Technology"], "title": "Going local in Salvador, Brazil"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "'This is a strange request,\" I write in an email to Oriana, a 23-year-old Brazilian student based in Edinburgh, \"but I'd really like to meet your mum.\"I'd been looking through couchsurfing.com's database of members in Bel\u00e9m, the Brazilian city at the mouth of the Amazon. Out of 49 local members willing to let a traveller stay in their home for free, one newcomer to the site caught my eye: Lucinea, Oriana's mother. \"My daughter is a very active member,\" says her profile. \"She's the one who told me about it.\" I'm instantly drawn to the idea of an older-generation couchsurfer inspired by her daughter's experiences. However, with Lucinea not speaking English and my complete lack of Portuguese, making arrangements isn't straightforward and I find myself calling on Oriana, who is listed as one of her \"couchsurfing friends\", to act as an intermediary. \"You're more than welcome to stay,\" Oriana replies almost immediately. Plus, as an added bonus, she'll be back from Edinburgh that week too, using her university holidays to \"get some mama loving\". It soon becomes apparent that mama loving is not in short supply. When I arrive at Lucinea's tiny one-bedroom apartment, she has already adopted a French couchsurfer called Nico, who's been staying for a week. \"She adores him,\" whispers Oriana, whose time in Edinburgh has given her a distinct Scots lilt. \"She's taking him to the airport later and I'm sure there'll be tears.\"If you needed proof that the couchsurfing phenomenon has spread beyond the low-income, early-20s bracket, this Bel\u00e9m apartment is it: Lucinea, the fiftysomething divorcee, looking to meet new people now her children have left home, and Nico, the mid-30s stock trader, who could easily afford a flash hotel yet prefers the friendliness of a homestay.While Lucinea is at the airport with Nico, Oriana takes me to the weekly artisan market in the city's attractive main square, Pra\u00e7a da Rep\u00fablica. Under a shady walkway of mango trees, we pass vendors touting Amazonian fruit juices, capoeira instruments, tiny crocheted bikinis, elaborate wooden necklaces, and all manner of snacks, from crab cakes to fresh coconuts. Oriana tells me Bel\u00e9m was at its peak during Brazil's 19th-century rubber boom and we tour some of its grandest sites, built on the back of the industry, including the imposing opera house, Teatro da Paz. \"The problem was, just as the city was thriving, an Englishman came to the Amazon to look for rubber-tree seeds, smuggled them back to London and then established farms in Asia. Our industry collapsed.\" As tropical storm clouds gather above, we head back to the flat. We find Lucinea hard at work, in front of a huge pile of books. On top of her day job working for a bank, she's enrolled at night school to get the literature degree she never had time for as a young mother with five children. \"My dream,\" she tells me, \"is to do a masters in Spain.\"The following day, I want to give mother and daughter time to catch up with each other, so I set off to amuse myself around town, admiring the old Portuguese houses and the stylish new waterfront development, where pavement cafes overlook the Amazon. Then, come evening, I have a meeting with another Bel\u00e9m couchsurfer, Ricardo, a 28-year-old video editor.Ricardo takes me to a bar called Cosanostra (Travessa Benjamin Constant, 1499), with a cosy wooden interior and live band playing samba and bossa nova. Like many couchsurfers, Ricardo is open and easygoing, and there is no introductory awkwardness. \"I have lived alone since I was 17 and have always had an open door,\" he says. But hasn't he ever worried about security? He looks baffled. \"I think it's highly unlikely someone will come all the way from Europe to steal my VCR.\"Ricardo has hosted over 40 people and, inevitably, has racked up many stories. My favourite is the one about the couchsurfer who found out Ricardo was an amateur boxer and wanted to re-enact Fight Club. \"Senhor Ricardo! Senhor Ricardo! Are you really going to hit him?\" asked the wide-eyed doorman outside his apartment, as the guy continued to insist. \"In the end, I hit him,\" recalls Ricardo, matter-of-factly, \"but then he kicked me, hurt himself in the process, and he had to delay his boat trip up the Amazon.\"Ricardo's tales keep me so entertained that, before I know it, it's 3am. Fortunately, I forewarned Lucinea I would be back late. \"No problem. Enjoy yourself,\" she said, giving me a key so I could quietly let myself into her place and flop on the spare mattress laid out in the living room. The next day, she and Oriana take me to the city zoo, where the thick Amazonian foliage makes you momentarily feel like you are in the heart of the jungle. We have a great day and they both seem happy to have me tag along. However, there comes a line that I'm always wary of crossing: overstaying my welcome. The time seems right to move on and, besides, I've got a lot of ground to cover to get down Brazil's 9,000km-plus coastline. Forget about Facebook, MySpace and Bebo - Brazilians swear by the social networking site Orkut. Developed by Google, and named after one of its engineers, Orkut.com is Brazil's most visited website, and almost every internet user in the country has an account. Travellers to Brazil may find Orkut membership useful as many hotels, bars and tour companies have pages on the site. It also hosts thousands of travel-related subcommunities, including groups for users of couchsurfing and hospitalityclub, and it is an easy way to keep in touch with the locals you meet along the way. You could also give Orkut a try in India, where it is the second most visited site. Just don't bother in the US, where it sank without a trace, and was dubbed the \"David Hasselhoff of social networking\", in reference to the American star's heroic status abroad (namely in Germany) that was never matched domestically.Caf\u00e9 Imagin\u00e1rio (Quintino Bocai\u00fava, 1086) Where Bel\u00e9m's painters, poets and musicians hang out. Come for live music and famous jambu pizza, made with a local herb. Amazon Beer (Esta\u00e7\u00e3o das Docas, Boulevard Castilho Fran\u00e7a) A micro-brewery that produces the best local beer. During happy hour (Mon-Wed, 6.30pm-9pm) you pay R$24 (around \u00a37.45) for a big buffet and all you can drink. Or try feijoada, a bean and meat stew which is the national dish, on Saturdays. Boteco das Onze (Pra\u00e7a Frei Caetano Brand\u00e3o) A beautiful bar that looks like an old European tavern in a 17th-century house with excellent food and a great view over Guajar\u00e1 Bay.vicky.baker@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel", "Travel websites", "Social networking", "Travelling solo"], "title": "Going local in Bel\u00e9m, Brazil"},{"date": "2008-06-13T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Forging friendships, establishing cultural exchanges, promoting world peace ... Most hospitality websites insist they offer more than just a free place to stay. All, that is, but the unashamedly named globalfreeloaders.com. Globalfreeloaders doesn't have the community feel of rival sites, or the same level of membership (just 46,000 to couchsurfing's 570,000). The website's design has also held it back, with member profiles consisting of just a paragraph of text and no pictures. Unless it undergoes a dramatic overhaul, it may go the same way as sites such as the now defunct Travelhoo and Tripup. Nonetheless, I am determined to give globalfreeloaders a chance. It's not easy to find someone suitable or even someone who will reply, but, after weeks of trying, I finally find my first host: Gustavo, a 20-year-old medical student from Fortaleza. I had no burning desire to visit Fortaleza - a coastal city described by my guidebook as \"a sprawling commercial centre with little touristic appeal\" - but I am instantly charmed by Gustavo's enthusiasm. He tells me I am the only person to have contacted him since he registered on the site a year ago, and he seems eager to pull out the stops for my visit. On Saturday morning, he meets me at the bus station with his brother Victor, who is 22, and takes me to the stylishly decorated apartment they share with their mother, a funky-dressing lawyer with a sideline in interior design. Over the next two days, they take me to a samba gig at the Orbita bar, for \"the best crab in town\" amid a grove of palm trees on Porto das Dunas beach, and to ride a stomach-churning, 14-storey waterslide (beachpark.com.br).Admittedly, the waterpark isn't the most authentic experience I've had, but I do have an only-in-Brazil moment when I almost get banned from riding the slides because my bikini shorts aren't skimpy enough. \"They might get caught,\" the female lifeguard tells me in all seriousness. The ever-polite Gustavo and Victor make me very glad I took a gamble on globalfreeloaders and on Fortaleza. However, when Monday comes around, it's time to bid the boys farewell and head for Jericoacoara, Brazil's most-hyped beach town.With a curve of expansive beaches, surrounded by giant sand dunes, Jericoacoara's scenery is jaw-dropping. Less than 10 years ago, it was a tiny fishing village without electricity, but word soon spread. Now its main trade is dune-buggy rides, sandboarding and kitesurfing. It even has an Italian-owned resort charging up to \u00a3300 a night. My first contact is Ingrid, a new member of hospitalityclub.org who claims to be one of the Jeri \"pioneers\". A regular here since the 1980s, she bought land to build a guesthouse seven years ago (jeriathome.com). Ingrid can't offer free accommodation and so uses hospitalityclub for the same reason she uses Virtual Tourist and Lonely Planet's Thorntree forum: to promote Jeri. She insists she doesn't break site rules to advertise her guesthouse, but will mention it \"if someone happens to ask if I know a good place\". I ask Ingrid if she can help me to meet more Jeri locals, so she takes me to the beach, where, just outside one of the town's most expensive bars, we find her favourite barraca, a mobile cart selling beers and cocktails. We pull up some plastic stools and she introduces me to two young capoeira instructors, Nacilio and Wesley. Both are concerned about how rapid development is affecting the area's natural environment. However, they also talk of the opportunities tourism has brought. \"I love being my own boss here,\" Wesley says. \"I would never have been able to travel otherwise.\" \"And I wouldn't have learned to kitesurf,\" adds Nacilio. My only disappointment is that I didn't meet Ingrid earlier. The day before, she had taken some French guests on an alternative tour, away from the buggy trips. \"We were the only ones on the dunes,\" she says. \"We found a tiny village and some beautiful lakes. It was a real adventure.\"My timing is better when meeting my next hospitalityclub contact, 25-year-old Paula, who works at Jeri's most upmarket resort. On the night we meet she's hosting a cocktail evening in the apartment she shares with Roberta, a member of couchsurfing.com. Their house speciality is a vodka-enhanced chocolate milkshake, with a dash of guaran\u00e1 for energy. A pick-me-up is certainly something you need for a Brazilian night out. The forr\u00f3, a typical northeastern dance party that we're warming up for, doesn't get started until 2am. It's not easy being rhythmically challenged in Brazil, but my first foray into forr\u00f3 isn't nearly as disastrous as my attempts at salsa and samba. However, I'm sure my biggest challenge lies at my next stop: the country's music capital, Salvador. vicky.baker@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel websites", "Social networking", "Travel"], "title": "Going local in north-east Brazil"},{"date": "2008-05-14T09:37:58Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's environment minister, hailed as a champion of the green movement but scorned by powerful farming groups, resigned yesterday after losing key battles in her efforts to protect the Amazon rainforest.Marina Silva's resignation is likely to reinforce the view that the Brazilian president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, is more concerned with economic development than conservation, as a commodities export boom fuels Brazil's growth. It could be a setback for Brazil's ambitions to become a major voice in global environmental debates.\"Her resignation is a disaster for the Lula administration. If the government had any global credibility in environmental issues, it was because of minister Marina,\" said Jose Maria Cardoso da Silva, vice-president of the South American division of the environmental group Conservation International.Silva said in her resignation letter that she had stepped down because of the \"difficulty she had been having for some time in carrying out the national environment agenda,\" a presidential spokesman said. Farming leaders welcomed the resignation of the former rubber tapper and activist.\"I hope the next minister is not as radical as Marina. She was an obstacle to economic development in Brazil,\" said Rui Prado, head of the agriculture federation of Mato Grosso, a big farming state. Silva unsuccessfully opposed several infrastructure projects in the rainforest, including two hydroelectric dams and a road that will link the western grain belt with the Amazon river.According to local media, among Silva's possible successors is Carlos Minc, Rio de Janeiro state's environment secretary and a founder of the Green Party in Brazil. The presidential spokesman could not confirm his appointment. The soft-spoken Silva has been ill for years suffering from tropical diseases and metal poisoning.She was frequently at odds with Lula and other cabinet ministers, who she felt were more concerned with job growth and conquering foreign markets than with protecting the environment.Growing global demand for Brazilian commodities such as soybeans has helped accelerate destruction of the world's largest rainforest, and Silva blamed cattle ranchers and farmers who have pushed deeper into the forest in search of land. Lula publicly rebuffed her and named Roberto Mangabeira Unger, minister for strategic issues, to oversee the implementation of a government white paper on the Amazon.At the presentation of the proposal last week, aides of Silva and Lula clashed and publicly accused each other of incompetence. Silva also lost out to big business interests when the government authorised genetically modified grains and the construction of a third nuclear power plant. Marcelo Furtado, the campaign director for Greenpeace Brazil, said the resignation was \"disastrous\" and blamed it on the government's Amazon policy, pressure to ease environmental regulations on factories and Unger's appointment.\"Although Lula has adopted the environmental talk, the practice is development at whatever cost,\" Furtado said. The Amazon basin covers half of Brazil and holds a fifth of the world's fresh water, and 15% of all plant and animal species on earth. But illegal logging and mining are rife as well as legally sanctioned felling, and swaths of land the size of US states have been deforested in recent years.Between August and December 2007, an estimated 2,703 sq miles (7,000 sq km) were chopped down, equivalent to two-thirds of the total for the previous 12 months. Silva was an admired figure in the global environmental community and often wore ethnic-style clothing. Born to a humble family in the Amazon state of Acre, she worked as a rubber tapper and a maid before earning a university degree. She worked closely with renowned activist Chico Mendes supporting local communities against big farmers and loggers until his murder by ranchers in 1988.", "tags": ["Endangered habitats", "Trees and forests", "Environment", "Brazil", "World news", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Amazon defender quits Brazil environment post"},{"date": "2008-05-28T09:30:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Between three and five million people took part in Sao Paulo's twelfth gay pride parade last weekend, making it the largest event of its kind anywhere in the world.The organisers of the Pride, Associa\u00e7\u00e3o da Parada do Orgulho GLBT (LGBT Pride Parade Association), \"twinned\" the event with Moscow Pride which was viciously attacked last year, as reported and experienced by Peter Tatchell here.The Moscow Pride organiser, Nikolai Alekseev flew in from Russia to be awarded a Brazilian Pride's \"Citizen Award for Respecting Diversity\" in a special ceremony last week.Over the last 10 years, Sao Paulo's LGBT Pride Parade has grown from 2,000 people in 1997 to being recognised by the Guinness Book of Records as the biggest Gay Pride event ever. The parade itself draws on Brazil's colourful carnival reputation with 20 open-decked trucks carrying sound systems down the skyscraper-lined Avenida Paulista, in the heart of Sao Paulo's financial district.The parade caps a full week of attractions, including the Cultural Gay Fair, Gay Day and the International GLS Tourism Forum, which are sponsored by the city's tourism department and Petrobras, Brazil's state-owned oil company. It also includes workshops and debates throughout the city that help to spread awareness about LGBT human rights and STD/Aids prevention.Brazil has one of the most effective anti-HIV/Aids campaigns in the world, which prevented the type of epidemic that has devastated other developing countries. Although it is the world's largest Catholic country, it has always had a very open attitude towards sexual activity. It has never criminalised same-sex sexual activity, for example, although it does not provide sexual minorities with protection against discrimination and violence, and has high recorded incidences of homophobic violence.Brazil's tourism minister, Marta Suplicy, a former Sao Paulo mayor, took part in the parade on one of its floats and said: \"This is the diversity the country wants, the diversity that we have to foster as a country seeking a tourist niche among the gay community.\" The parade attracts nearly 330,000 tourists to the city, who bring in a revenue of about $115m to the city. However, only around 5% of these tourists come from abroad, mainly from the United States and other parts of Latin America.Suplicy also called for the Brazilian Congress to pass a law making homophobia a crime, and said: \"We still see cases of homophobia in the country. That needs to change.\" Suplicy is a prominent member of the Brazilian Workers Party (PT) and is being widely tipped as a potential successor to President Lula.The law that she is proposing is being fiercely resisted by religious politicians, and it is becoming a serious political issue in the country. On a visit last year to Brazil, Pope Benedict spoke out against homosexuality and called for traditional family values to be reinforced. Organisers of the LGBT event, which was officially themed as \"Homophobia Kills! Defending the Secular State\", were quick to point out that fewer than one million had turned out for the papal visit, far fewer than attended last weekend's pride event.", "tags": ["Brazil", "LGBT rights", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "Americas"], "title": "Pride of Brazil"},{"date": "2008-04-17T09:57:43Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian president has rejected criticism that his country's production of biofuels has forced a surge in global food prices and harms the environment. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva accused critics of being driven by economic and political interests, and failing to highlight soaring oil prices and increased demand as a factor in pushing up food production costs.\"Don't tell me, for the love of God, that food is expensive because of biodiesel,\" he told reporters.\"Food is expensive because the world wasn't prepared to see millions of Chinese, Indians, Africans, Brazilians and Latin Americans eat. We want to discuss this not with passion but rationality and not from the European point of view.\" Lula made his comments following a week of protests in Brazil and Europe against the fuels made from food crops and their supposed environmental and social consequences.This week, the EU's environmental chief, Stavros Dimas, said that biofuels, which Brazil hopes to export to the EU, must now meet social and environmental conditions, and that \"the issue of sustainabilty criteria is of crucial importance.\" Scientists from the European Environment Agency urged the 27-nation bloc to drop its 10% biofuel target for road transport fuels.Lula rebuffed accusations by Jean Ziegler, the UN's special rapporteur for the right to food, that biofuels were a \"crime against humanity\".\"The real crime against humanity is to discredit biofuels a priori and condemn food-starved and energy-starved countries to dependence and insecurity,\" Lula said. Some of Brazil's neighbours, led by oil-rich Venezuela, warned this week that biofuels could increase malnutrition in Latin America. Lula said he was \"shocked\" that biofuel critics failed to mention the impact that high oil prices had on food production costs.\"It's always easier to hide economic and political interests behind supposed social and environmental interests,\" he said. The growing criticism has placed Brazil at the centre of the global biofuels debate. The country has enjoyed an agricultural export boom, and has become the world's largest exporter of ethanol, which is derived from sugar cane. Critics say the increased production of crops for ethanol and biodiesel, which is derived from oil seeds, competes for land with food crops, and is pushing cattle ranchers and farmers further north in Brazil, contributing to the destruction of the Amazon rainforest. But the Brazilian government has argued that it has plenty of unused land to plant crops for biofuels and that current production was still too small to affect food prices.", "tags": ["Biofuels", "Food", "Energy", "Environment", "Brazil", "European Union", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil rejects biofuels criticism"},{"date": "2008-06-20T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "There's a direct correlation between the shortening queue of Brazilians in front of me and my rising sense of panic. I've come to the poor outer district of Retiro to meet Mae (Mother) Stella, a revered leader of the region's Afro-Brazilian religion, Candombl\u00e9. She's a gentle-looking 84-year-old, but she is held in such high esteem in the Il\u00e9 Ax\u00e9 Op\u00f4 Afonj\u00e1 compound that I am terrified of making a faux pas. Or I should say another faux pas: I've already made one by arriving in trousers, causing someone to run to fetch me a billowing African skirt.I'm here on the advice of a local psychologist called Lucia, whom I met through hospitalityclub.org. Although she can't join me, she recommended the centre as offering a genuine, non-tourist-driven ceremony, which she has attended many times, \"out of curiosity, and because it feels good\". However, with no host to translate from Portuguese - or Yoruba, the enclave's second language - all I can do is watch and copy. The congregation takes turns to lie face down on a dusty carpet and point their bodies at items around the altar - a conch shell, maracas, a giant root vegetable and finally to Mae Stella herself.My turn comes and I do my best to follow suit. \"You are blessed,\" whispers Mae Stella, and I breathe a sigh of relief. In truth, I'm slightly disappointed the ceremony hasn't included the infamous Candombl\u00e9 act of casting out bad spirits in a body-convulsing trance, but, nonetheless, I leave with the undeniable thrill of having been the only non-local in attendance.In times when it can seem like tourism has left no stone unturned, a good shortcut to more individual travel experiences is hospitalityclub's groups page. It offers no shortage of inspiration, and you can find a local host who shares your special interests or who can introduce you to something new.As if that wasn't generous enough, I later find out that Lucia is agreeing to host me, despite being midway through chemotherapy from breast cancer. \"Tomorrow is my next treatment, and my 40th birthday,\" she tells me, when I turn up on her doorstep in the beach suburb of Pituba. Surely this isn't a good time to be hosting an unknown traveller? But she insists she likes the company. The next day, the family hosts a low-key but upbeat birthday party and everyone makes me feel welcome, especially her husband, a leading member of Brazil's communist party, and their son Theo. \"I want to speak to her more, but all I know in English is numbers and colours,\" Theo tells Lucia with sweet earnestness.My second contact is 24-year-old Fernanda from yowtrip.com, a promising new site aimed at helping travellers plan trips using local knowledge. I ask her if she's willing to show me around for an evening. \"We can surely meet,\" she replies. \"Call me and I will come to pick you up.\" She and her sister, Mariana, a fellow yowtrip member, take me straight to a hip Japanese bar and restaurant, Barth\u00f4. It's owned by a friend of theirs and in what they describe as the \"alternative and open-minded\" Rio Vermelho neighbourhood. After getting our fill of temaki rolls and people-watching, we move on to the equally stylish Agua bar in Bahia Marina, where we sit until closing time, drinking caipiroskas - the sexy Brazilian way of saying vodka with fruit and sugar.Next evening, I get a different slice of Salvador life with couchsurfing.com member Fausto, whom I found on the site following a word-of-mouth recommendation from a Hungarian site member I met further up the coast. A 32-year-old public relations officer, he has hosted over 30 travellers and says his favourite place to take guests is S\u00e3o Joaquim market. \"I like to see how they react to the mayhem,\" he says. However, for me, he has a different treat: the less-visited Ribeira neighbourhood. It's an area that used to be home to the city's upper classes, until they abandoned it after the poor moved to the opposite bay and spoilt their view. What remains is some of Salvador's most beautiful, if slightly dilapidated, architecture. It's also home to the city's best ice cream, according to Fausto, and one trip to a 1930s parlour, Sorveteria da Ribeira, leaves me more than convinced. Fausto, like all my Salvador contacts, is insistent that I come back in February for carnival, a time of year when he typically receives over 40 couchsurfing requests. As it's often tipped as the world's best, surpassing even Rio, I'm tempted and, right now, could think of nothing better than celebrating the occasion with Lucia back in good health. However, before I start fantasising about return visits, I have one last stop, Buenos Aires. Is it possible to throw a party in a foreign city, with guests you've invited through travel-networking sites? I'm about to find out ...vicky.baker@guardian.co.ukMorro de S\u00e3o Paulo  A small car-free island two hours by boat from downtown Salvador. Itacare A paradise for surfers and nature enthusiasts. Some beaches are only accessible by hiking through part of the Atlantic Forest, an experience in itself.Litoral Norte You can still find beaches without any houses, hotels or electricity close to Salvador along the north coast. Drive towards the sand dunes at Mangue Seco.Porto Seguro This is where the Portuguese first landed in Brazil. The beaches are great, and the town is famous for its nightlife.\u00b7 Felipe Coimbra is the founder of yowtrip.com", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Social networking", "Travel", "Travel websites", "Technology"], "title": "Going local in Salvador, Brazil"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "'This is a strange request,\" I write in an email to Oriana, a 23-year-old Brazilian student based in Edinburgh, \"but I'd really like to meet your mum.\"I'd been looking through couchsurfing.com's database of members in Bel\u00e9m, the Brazilian city at the mouth of the Amazon. Out of 49 local members willing to let a traveller stay in their home for free, one newcomer to the site caught my eye: Lucinea, Oriana's mother. \"My daughter is a very active member,\" says her profile. \"She's the one who told me about it.\" I'm instantly drawn to the idea of an older-generation couchsurfer inspired by her daughter's experiences. However, with Lucinea not speaking English and my complete lack of Portuguese, making arrangements isn't straightforward and I find myself calling on Oriana, who is listed as one of her \"couchsurfing friends\", to act as an intermediary. \"You're more than welcome to stay,\" Oriana replies almost immediately. Plus, as an added bonus, she'll be back from Edinburgh that week too, using her university holidays to \"get some mama loving\". It soon becomes apparent that mama loving is not in short supply. When I arrive at Lucinea's tiny one-bedroom apartment, she has already adopted a French couchsurfer called Nico, who's been staying for a week. \"She adores him,\" whispers Oriana, whose time in Edinburgh has given her a distinct Scots lilt. \"She's taking him to the airport later and I'm sure there'll be tears.\"If you needed proof that the couchsurfing phenomenon has spread beyond the low-income, early-20s bracket, this Bel\u00e9m apartment is it: Lucinea, the fiftysomething divorcee, looking to meet new people now her children have left home, and Nico, the mid-30s stock trader, who could easily afford a flash hotel yet prefers the friendliness of a homestay.While Lucinea is at the airport with Nico, Oriana takes me to the weekly artisan market in the city's attractive main square, Pra\u00e7a da Rep\u00fablica. Under a shady walkway of mango trees, we pass vendors touting Amazonian fruit juices, capoeira instruments, tiny crocheted bikinis, elaborate wooden necklaces, and all manner of snacks, from crab cakes to fresh coconuts. Oriana tells me Bel\u00e9m was at its peak during Brazil's 19th-century rubber boom and we tour some of its grandest sites, built on the back of the industry, including the imposing opera house, Teatro da Paz. \"The problem was, just as the city was thriving, an Englishman came to the Amazon to look for rubber-tree seeds, smuggled them back to London and then established farms in Asia. Our industry collapsed.\" As tropical storm clouds gather above, we head back to the flat. We find Lucinea hard at work, in front of a huge pile of books. On top of her day job working for a bank, she's enrolled at night school to get the literature degree she never had time for as a young mother with five children. \"My dream,\" she tells me, \"is to do a masters in Spain.\"The following day, I want to give mother and daughter time to catch up with each other, so I set off to amuse myself around town, admiring the old Portuguese houses and the stylish new waterfront development, where pavement cafes overlook the Amazon. Then, come evening, I have a meeting with another Bel\u00e9m couchsurfer, Ricardo, a 28-year-old video editor.Ricardo takes me to a bar called Cosanostra (Travessa Benjamin Constant, 1499), with a cosy wooden interior and live band playing samba and bossa nova. Like many couchsurfers, Ricardo is open and easygoing, and there is no introductory awkwardness. \"I have lived alone since I was 17 and have always had an open door,\" he says. But hasn't he ever worried about security? He looks baffled. \"I think it's highly unlikely someone will come all the way from Europe to steal my VCR.\"Ricardo has hosted over 40 people and, inevitably, has racked up many stories. My favourite is the one about the couchsurfer who found out Ricardo was an amateur boxer and wanted to re-enact Fight Club. \"Senhor Ricardo! Senhor Ricardo! Are you really going to hit him?\" asked the wide-eyed doorman outside his apartment, as the guy continued to insist. \"In the end, I hit him,\" recalls Ricardo, matter-of-factly, \"but then he kicked me, hurt himself in the process, and he had to delay his boat trip up the Amazon.\"Ricardo's tales keep me so entertained that, before I know it, it's 3am. Fortunately, I forewarned Lucinea I would be back late. \"No problem. Enjoy yourself,\" she said, giving me a key so I could quietly let myself into her place and flop on the spare mattress laid out in the living room. The next day, she and Oriana take me to the city zoo, where the thick Amazonian foliage makes you momentarily feel like you are in the heart of the jungle. We have a great day and they both seem happy to have me tag along. However, there comes a line that I'm always wary of crossing: overstaying my welcome. The time seems right to move on and, besides, I've got a lot of ground to cover to get down Brazil's 9,000km-plus coastline. Forget about Facebook, MySpace and Bebo - Brazilians swear by the social networking site Orkut. Developed by Google, and named after one of its engineers, Orkut.com is Brazil's most visited website, and almost every internet user in the country has an account. Travellers to Brazil may find Orkut membership useful as many hotels, bars and tour companies have pages on the site. It also hosts thousands of travel-related subcommunities, including groups for users of couchsurfing and hospitalityclub, and it is an easy way to keep in touch with the locals you meet along the way. You could also give Orkut a try in India, where it is the second most visited site. Just don't bother in the US, where it sank without a trace, and was dubbed the \"David Hasselhoff of social networking\", in reference to the American star's heroic status abroad (namely in Germany) that was never matched domestically.Caf\u00e9 Imagin\u00e1rio (Quintino Bocai\u00fava, 1086) Where Bel\u00e9m's painters, poets and musicians hang out. Come for live music and famous jambu pizza, made with a local herb. Amazon Beer (Esta\u00e7\u00e3o das Docas, Boulevard Castilho Fran\u00e7a) A micro-brewery that produces the best local beer. During happy hour (Mon-Wed, 6.30pm-9pm) you pay R$24 (around \u00a37.45) for a big buffet and all you can drink. Or try feijoada, a bean and meat stew which is the national dish, on Saturdays. Boteco das Onze (Pra\u00e7a Frei Caetano Brand\u00e3o) A beautiful bar that looks like an old European tavern in a 17th-century house with excellent food and a great view over Guajar\u00e1 Bay.vicky.baker@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel", "Travel websites", "Social networking", "Travelling solo"], "title": "Going local in Bel\u00e9m, Brazil"},{"date": "2008-06-13T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Forging friendships, establishing cultural exchanges, promoting world peace ... Most hospitality websites insist they offer more than just a free place to stay. All, that is, but the unashamedly named globalfreeloaders.com. Globalfreeloaders doesn't have the community feel of rival sites, or the same level of membership (just 46,000 to couchsurfing's 570,000). The website's design has also held it back, with member profiles consisting of just a paragraph of text and no pictures. Unless it undergoes a dramatic overhaul, it may go the same way as sites such as the now defunct Travelhoo and Tripup. Nonetheless, I am determined to give globalfreeloaders a chance. It's not easy to find someone suitable or even someone who will reply, but, after weeks of trying, I finally find my first host: Gustavo, a 20-year-old medical student from Fortaleza. I had no burning desire to visit Fortaleza - a coastal city described by my guidebook as \"a sprawling commercial centre with little touristic appeal\" - but I am instantly charmed by Gustavo's enthusiasm. He tells me I am the only person to have contacted him since he registered on the site a year ago, and he seems eager to pull out the stops for my visit. On Saturday morning, he meets me at the bus station with his brother Victor, who is 22, and takes me to the stylishly decorated apartment they share with their mother, a funky-dressing lawyer with a sideline in interior design. Over the next two days, they take me to a samba gig at the Orbita bar, for \"the best crab in town\" amid a grove of palm trees on Porto das Dunas beach, and to ride a stomach-churning, 14-storey waterslide (beachpark.com.br).Admittedly, the waterpark isn't the most authentic experience I've had, but I do have an only-in-Brazil moment when I almost get banned from riding the slides because my bikini shorts aren't skimpy enough. \"They might get caught,\" the female lifeguard tells me in all seriousness. The ever-polite Gustavo and Victor make me very glad I took a gamble on globalfreeloaders and on Fortaleza. However, when Monday comes around, it's time to bid the boys farewell and head for Jericoacoara, Brazil's most-hyped beach town.With a curve of expansive beaches, surrounded by giant sand dunes, Jericoacoara's scenery is jaw-dropping. Less than 10 years ago, it was a tiny fishing village without electricity, but word soon spread. Now its main trade is dune-buggy rides, sandboarding and kitesurfing. It even has an Italian-owned resort charging up to \u00a3300 a night. My first contact is Ingrid, a new member of hospitalityclub.org who claims to be one of the Jeri \"pioneers\". A regular here since the 1980s, she bought land to build a guesthouse seven years ago (jeriathome.com). Ingrid can't offer free accommodation and so uses hospitalityclub for the same reason she uses Virtual Tourist and Lonely Planet's Thorntree forum: to promote Jeri. She insists she doesn't break site rules to advertise her guesthouse, but will mention it \"if someone happens to ask if I know a good place\". I ask Ingrid if she can help me to meet more Jeri locals, so she takes me to the beach, where, just outside one of the town's most expensive bars, we find her favourite barraca, a mobile cart selling beers and cocktails. We pull up some plastic stools and she introduces me to two young capoeira instructors, Nacilio and Wesley. Both are concerned about how rapid development is affecting the area's natural environment. However, they also talk of the opportunities tourism has brought. \"I love being my own boss here,\" Wesley says. \"I would never have been able to travel otherwise.\" \"And I wouldn't have learned to kitesurf,\" adds Nacilio. My only disappointment is that I didn't meet Ingrid earlier. The day before, she had taken some French guests on an alternative tour, away from the buggy trips. \"We were the only ones on the dunes,\" she says. \"We found a tiny village and some beautiful lakes. It was a real adventure.\"My timing is better when meeting my next hospitalityclub contact, 25-year-old Paula, who works at Jeri's most upmarket resort. On the night we meet she's hosting a cocktail evening in the apartment she shares with Roberta, a member of couchsurfing.com. Their house speciality is a vodka-enhanced chocolate milkshake, with a dash of guaran\u00e1 for energy. A pick-me-up is certainly something you need for a Brazilian night out. The forr\u00f3, a typical northeastern dance party that we're warming up for, doesn't get started until 2am. It's not easy being rhythmically challenged in Brazil, but my first foray into forr\u00f3 isn't nearly as disastrous as my attempts at salsa and samba. However, I'm sure my biggest challenge lies at my next stop: the country's music capital, Salvador. vicky.baker@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel websites", "Social networking", "Travel"], "title": "Going local in north-east Brazil"},{"date": "2008-05-14T09:37:58Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's environment minister, hailed as a champion of the green movement but scorned by powerful farming groups, resigned yesterday after losing key battles in her efforts to protect the Amazon rainforest.Marina Silva's resignation is likely to reinforce the view that the Brazilian president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, is more concerned with economic development than conservation, as a commodities export boom fuels Brazil's growth. It could be a setback for Brazil's ambitions to become a major voice in global environmental debates.\"Her resignation is a disaster for the Lula administration. If the government had any global credibility in environmental issues, it was because of minister Marina,\" said Jose Maria Cardoso da Silva, vice-president of the South American division of the environmental group Conservation International.Silva said in her resignation letter that she had stepped down because of the \"difficulty she had been having for some time in carrying out the national environment agenda,\" a presidential spokesman said. Farming leaders welcomed the resignation of the former rubber tapper and activist.\"I hope the next minister is not as radical as Marina. She was an obstacle to economic development in Brazil,\" said Rui Prado, head of the agriculture federation of Mato Grosso, a big farming state. Silva unsuccessfully opposed several infrastructure projects in the rainforest, including two hydroelectric dams and a road that will link the western grain belt with the Amazon river.According to local media, among Silva's possible successors is Carlos Minc, Rio de Janeiro state's environment secretary and a founder of the Green Party in Brazil. The presidential spokesman could not confirm his appointment. The soft-spoken Silva has been ill for years suffering from tropical diseases and metal poisoning.She was frequently at odds with Lula and other cabinet ministers, who she felt were more concerned with job growth and conquering foreign markets than with protecting the environment.Growing global demand for Brazilian commodities such as soybeans has helped accelerate destruction of the world's largest rainforest, and Silva blamed cattle ranchers and farmers who have pushed deeper into the forest in search of land. Lula publicly rebuffed her and named Roberto Mangabeira Unger, minister for strategic issues, to oversee the implementation of a government white paper on the Amazon.At the presentation of the proposal last week, aides of Silva and Lula clashed and publicly accused each other of incompetence. Silva also lost out to big business interests when the government authorised genetically modified grains and the construction of a third nuclear power plant. Marcelo Furtado, the campaign director for Greenpeace Brazil, said the resignation was \"disastrous\" and blamed it on the government's Amazon policy, pressure to ease environmental regulations on factories and Unger's appointment.\"Although Lula has adopted the environmental talk, the practice is development at whatever cost,\" Furtado said. The Amazon basin covers half of Brazil and holds a fifth of the world's fresh water, and 15% of all plant and animal species on earth. But illegal logging and mining are rife as well as legally sanctioned felling, and swaths of land the size of US states have been deforested in recent years.Between August and December 2007, an estimated 2,703 sq miles (7,000 sq km) were chopped down, equivalent to two-thirds of the total for the previous 12 months. Silva was an admired figure in the global environmental community and often wore ethnic-style clothing. Born to a humble family in the Amazon state of Acre, she worked as a rubber tapper and a maid before earning a university degree. She worked closely with renowned activist Chico Mendes supporting local communities against big farmers and loggers until his murder by ranchers in 1988.", "tags": ["Endangered habitats", "Trees and forests", "Environment", "Brazil", "World news", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Amazon defender quits Brazil environment post"},{"date": "2008-05-04T23:27:47Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's air force was yesterday scouring the country's north-eastern coastline for survivors after a plane carrying four British businessmen vanished over the Atlantic on Friday afternoon.The men, named as Alan Kempson, Nigel Hodges, Sean Woodhall and Ricky Every, were travelling from the north-eastern tourist capital of Salvador to the city of Ilh\u00e9us about 125 miles away on Friday afternoon when their twin-engine Cessna plane disappeared.Yesterday morning there were unconfirmed reports that pieces of wreckage, possibly from the missing plane, had been found near Ilh\u00e9us.The privately charted air taxi took off from Salvador's airport at 5pm on Friday. Forty-three minutes later its two Brazilian pilots communicated for the last time with the tower at Ilh\u00e9us airport to say they were preparing to land. They had been due to arrive nine minutes later.M\u00e1rcio Rodrigues Coutinho, a 43-year-old resident of the beach town Itacare, told Brazil's Globo TV he had seen a small plane flying low at about 6pm on Friday.\"The plane was much lower than usual for the planes that fly over this region. It was starting to get dark and its lights were on. I didn't hear any noise from the motor,\" he said.Two of the missing passengers are involved in Worldwide Destinations, a property development company that specialises in emerging property markets and has real-estate projects in Egypt and Brazil.The group is working on the construction of a luxury, seaside eco-resort with an 18-hole golf course near Ilh\u00e9us called the Barra Nova Pearl Eco-Nature Resort. The company's website claimed that \"Brazil's outstanding natural beauty, safe political climate, dazzling beaches, tropical habitat, exotic food, colourful culture and vibrant cities\" made it a perfect ex-pat destination. Woodhall is the group's president while Every reportedly lives in Brazil and is the company's representative in South America.According to the Brazilian newspaper A Tarde the group claimed to have business ties to Prince Albert of Monaco.In 2001 Woodhall received an 18-month suspended sentence after being convicted of a \u00a31.4m fraud in the UK. He subsequently moved to Spain. Hodges and Kempson work for Diamond Lifestyle Holdings, a Cambridgeshire-based finance company.Woodall's parents, speaking at their home in Tempsford, near Sandy, Bedfordshire, said they were refusing to give up hope.His father, who did not wish to be named, said: \"We're going out of our minds. I know they are now saying they are looking for bodies but we're keeping our hopes alive. We don't believe he's dead.\"We only found out yesterday when we saw it on Teletext. My wife and I had been gardening all day then sat down for a cup of tea and saw the news. My wife has a heart condition and is seriously distressed, I'm very worried for her.\"The local newspaper Correio da Bahia suggested the group's plane had been flying over the area where the eco-resort was to be constructed shortly before disappearing.Other reports claimed the group had been forced to cancel a helicopter trip earlier on the same day because of poor weather conditions.Claudio Soares, the owner of a Salvador-based air taxi company who knew the businessmen, said the group had planned to fly over several islands off Brazil's north eastern coast in a helicopter before heading to Ilheus. Bad weather forced them to cancel the trip, he said. \"The weather was not 100% for the flight.\"Caliana Mesquita, a 20-year-old student, was one of the last people to see the plane. \"The plane seemed a bit out of control. It swung out towards the sea and then back towards the forest. Not long after it disappeared,\" she told Globo.Yesterday a search party including helicopters, boats and foot patrols was searching a 25-mile stretch of coastline for the executives and their two Brazilian pilots.According to the Brazilian air force there have been 40 accidents involving small planes this year.With its virtually uninterrupted beaches and year-round sun, north-eastern Brazil is billed as the new Algarve by property developers. A growing number of British citizens, many of them retired, are choosing to set up home there, drawn by the golden beaches and the cheaper cost of living. Several European companies offer slices of the Brazilian coastline for a fraction of the price charged in more established resort areas such as the Caribbean.In January this year David Beckham visited the region to announce the construction of a football academy in the north-eastern state of Natal. The development, funded by a Norwegian development group, will include a 10,000-capacity beachside football stadium.", "tags": ["Brazil", "UK news", "World news", "Travel", "Plane crashes", "Air transport", "Americas"], "title": "Search continues for Britons missing after Brazil plane crash"},{"date": "2008-05-28T09:30:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Between three and five million people took part in Sao Paulo's twelfth gay pride parade last weekend, making it the largest event of its kind anywhere in the world.The organisers of the Pride, Associa\u00e7\u00e3o da Parada do Orgulho GLBT (LGBT Pride Parade Association), \"twinned\" the event with Moscow Pride which was viciously attacked last year, as reported and experienced by Peter Tatchell here.The Moscow Pride organiser, Nikolai Alekseev flew in from Russia to be awarded a Brazilian Pride's \"Citizen Award for Respecting Diversity\" in a special ceremony last week.Over the last 10 years, Sao Paulo's LGBT Pride Parade has grown from 2,000 people in 1997 to being recognised by the Guinness Book of Records as the biggest Gay Pride event ever. The parade itself draws on Brazil's colourful carnival reputation with 20 open-decked trucks carrying sound systems down the skyscraper-lined Avenida Paulista, in the heart of Sao Paulo's financial district.The parade caps a full week of attractions, including the Cultural Gay Fair, Gay Day and the International GLS Tourism Forum, which are sponsored by the city's tourism department and Petrobras, Brazil's state-owned oil company. It also includes workshops and debates throughout the city that help to spread awareness about LGBT human rights and STD/Aids prevention.Brazil has one of the most effective anti-HIV/Aids campaigns in the world, which prevented the type of epidemic that has devastated other developing countries. Although it is the world's largest Catholic country, it has always had a very open attitude towards sexual activity. It has never criminalised same-sex sexual activity, for example, although it does not provide sexual minorities with protection against discrimination and violence, and has high recorded incidences of homophobic violence.Brazil's tourism minister, Marta Suplicy, a former Sao Paulo mayor, took part in the parade on one of its floats and said: \"This is the diversity the country wants, the diversity that we have to foster as a country seeking a tourist niche among the gay community.\" The parade attracts nearly 330,000 tourists to the city, who bring in a revenue of about $115m to the city. However, only around 5% of these tourists come from abroad, mainly from the United States and other parts of Latin America.Suplicy also called for the Brazilian Congress to pass a law making homophobia a crime, and said: \"We still see cases of homophobia in the country. That needs to change.\" Suplicy is a prominent member of the Brazilian Workers Party (PT) and is being widely tipped as a potential successor to President Lula.The law that she is proposing is being fiercely resisted by religious politicians, and it is becoming a serious political issue in the country. On a visit last year to Brazil, Pope Benedict spoke out against homosexuality and called for traditional family values to be reinforced. Organisers of the LGBT event, which was officially themed as \"Homophobia Kills! Defending the Secular State\", were quick to point out that fewer than one million had turned out for the papal visit, far fewer than attended last weekend's pride event.", "tags": ["Brazil", "LGBT rights", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "Americas"], "title": "Pride of Brazil"},{"date": "2008-04-17T09:57:43Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian president has rejected criticism that his country's production of biofuels has forced a surge in global food prices and harms the environment. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva accused critics of being driven by economic and political interests, and failing to highlight soaring oil prices and increased demand as a factor in pushing up food production costs.\"Don't tell me, for the love of God, that food is expensive because of biodiesel,\" he told reporters.\"Food is expensive because the world wasn't prepared to see millions of Chinese, Indians, Africans, Brazilians and Latin Americans eat. We want to discuss this not with passion but rationality and not from the European point of view.\" Lula made his comments following a week of protests in Brazil and Europe against the fuels made from food crops and their supposed environmental and social consequences.This week, the EU's environmental chief, Stavros Dimas, said that biofuels, which Brazil hopes to export to the EU, must now meet social and environmental conditions, and that \"the issue of sustainabilty criteria is of crucial importance.\" Scientists from the European Environment Agency urged the 27-nation bloc to drop its 10% biofuel target for road transport fuels.Lula rebuffed accusations by Jean Ziegler, the UN's special rapporteur for the right to food, that biofuels were a \"crime against humanity\".\"The real crime against humanity is to discredit biofuels a priori and condemn food-starved and energy-starved countries to dependence and insecurity,\" Lula said. Some of Brazil's neighbours, led by oil-rich Venezuela, warned this week that biofuels could increase malnutrition in Latin America. Lula said he was \"shocked\" that biofuel critics failed to mention the impact that high oil prices had on food production costs.\"It's always easier to hide economic and political interests behind supposed social and environmental interests,\" he said. The growing criticism has placed Brazil at the centre of the global biofuels debate. The country has enjoyed an agricultural export boom, and has become the world's largest exporter of ethanol, which is derived from sugar cane. Critics say the increased production of crops for ethanol and biodiesel, which is derived from oil seeds, competes for land with food crops, and is pushing cattle ranchers and farmers further north in Brazil, contributing to the destruction of the Amazon rainforest. But the Brazilian government has argued that it has plenty of unused land to plant crops for biofuels and that current production was still too small to affect food prices.", "tags": ["Biofuels", "Food", "Energy", "Environment", "Brazil", "European Union", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil rejects biofuels criticism"},{"date": "2008-06-20T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "There's a direct correlation between the shortening queue of Brazilians in front of me and my rising sense of panic. I've come to the poor outer district of Retiro to meet Mae (Mother) Stella, a revered leader of the region's Afro-Brazilian religion, Candombl\u00e9. She's a gentle-looking 84-year-old, but she is held in such high esteem in the Il\u00e9 Ax\u00e9 Op\u00f4 Afonj\u00e1 compound that I am terrified of making a faux pas. Or I should say another faux pas: I've already made one by arriving in trousers, causing someone to run to fetch me a billowing African skirt.I'm here on the advice of a local psychologist called Lucia, whom I met through hospitalityclub.org. Although she can't join me, she recommended the centre as offering a genuine, non-tourist-driven ceremony, which she has attended many times, \"out of curiosity, and because it feels good\". However, with no host to translate from Portuguese - or Yoruba, the enclave's second language - all I can do is watch and copy. The congregation takes turns to lie face down on a dusty carpet and point their bodies at items around the altar - a conch shell, maracas, a giant root vegetable and finally to Mae Stella herself.My turn comes and I do my best to follow suit. \"You are blessed,\" whispers Mae Stella, and I breathe a sigh of relief. In truth, I'm slightly disappointed the ceremony hasn't included the infamous Candombl\u00e9 act of casting out bad spirits in a body-convulsing trance, but, nonetheless, I leave with the undeniable thrill of having been the only non-local in attendance.In times when it can seem like tourism has left no stone unturned, a good shortcut to more individual travel experiences is hospitalityclub's groups page. It offers no shortage of inspiration, and you can find a local host who shares your special interests or who can introduce you to something new.As if that wasn't generous enough, I later find out that Lucia is agreeing to host me, despite being midway through chemotherapy from breast cancer. \"Tomorrow is my next treatment, and my 40th birthday,\" she tells me, when I turn up on her doorstep in the beach suburb of Pituba. Surely this isn't a good time to be hosting an unknown traveller? But she insists she likes the company. The next day, the family hosts a low-key but upbeat birthday party and everyone makes me feel welcome, especially her husband, a leading member of Brazil's communist party, and their son Theo. \"I want to speak to her more, but all I know in English is numbers and colours,\" Theo tells Lucia with sweet earnestness.My second contact is 24-year-old Fernanda from yowtrip.com, a promising new site aimed at helping travellers plan trips using local knowledge. I ask her if she's willing to show me around for an evening. \"We can surely meet,\" she replies. \"Call me and I will come to pick you up.\" She and her sister, Mariana, a fellow yowtrip member, take me straight to a hip Japanese bar and restaurant, Barth\u00f4. It's owned by a friend of theirs and in what they describe as the \"alternative and open-minded\" Rio Vermelho neighbourhood. After getting our fill of temaki rolls and people-watching, we move on to the equally stylish Agua bar in Bahia Marina, where we sit until closing time, drinking caipiroskas - the sexy Brazilian way of saying vodka with fruit and sugar.Next evening, I get a different slice of Salvador life with couchsurfing.com member Fausto, whom I found on the site following a word-of-mouth recommendation from a Hungarian site member I met further up the coast. A 32-year-old public relations officer, he has hosted over 30 travellers and says his favourite place to take guests is S\u00e3o Joaquim market. \"I like to see how they react to the mayhem,\" he says. However, for me, he has a different treat: the less-visited Ribeira neighbourhood. It's an area that used to be home to the city's upper classes, until they abandoned it after the poor moved to the opposite bay and spoilt their view. What remains is some of Salvador's most beautiful, if slightly dilapidated, architecture. It's also home to the city's best ice cream, according to Fausto, and one trip to a 1930s parlour, Sorveteria da Ribeira, leaves me more than convinced. Fausto, like all my Salvador contacts, is insistent that I come back in February for carnival, a time of year when he typically receives over 40 couchsurfing requests. As it's often tipped as the world's best, surpassing even Rio, I'm tempted and, right now, could think of nothing better than celebrating the occasion with Lucia back in good health. However, before I start fantasising about return visits, I have one last stop, Buenos Aires. Is it possible to throw a party in a foreign city, with guests you've invited through travel-networking sites? I'm about to find out ...vicky.baker@guardian.co.ukMorro de S\u00e3o Paulo  A small car-free island two hours by boat from downtown Salvador. Itacare A paradise for surfers and nature enthusiasts. Some beaches are only accessible by hiking through part of the Atlantic Forest, an experience in itself.Litoral Norte You can still find beaches without any houses, hotels or electricity close to Salvador along the north coast. Drive towards the sand dunes at Mangue Seco.Porto Seguro This is where the Portuguese first landed in Brazil. The beaches are great, and the town is famous for its nightlife.\u00b7 Felipe Coimbra is the founder of yowtrip.com", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Social networking", "Travel", "Travel websites", "Technology"], "title": "Going local in Salvador, Brazil"},{"date": "2008-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "'This is a strange request,\" I write in an email to Oriana, a 23-year-old Brazilian student based in Edinburgh, \"but I'd really like to meet your mum.\"I'd been looking through couchsurfing.com's database of members in Bel\u00e9m, the Brazilian city at the mouth of the Amazon. Out of 49 local members willing to let a traveller stay in their home for free, one newcomer to the site caught my eye: Lucinea, Oriana's mother. \"My daughter is a very active member,\" says her profile. \"She's the one who told me about it.\" I'm instantly drawn to the idea of an older-generation couchsurfer inspired by her daughter's experiences. However, with Lucinea not speaking English and my complete lack of Portuguese, making arrangements isn't straightforward and I find myself calling on Oriana, who is listed as one of her \"couchsurfing friends\", to act as an intermediary. \"You're more than welcome to stay,\" Oriana replies almost immediately. Plus, as an added bonus, she'll be back from Edinburgh that week too, using her university holidays to \"get some mama loving\". It soon becomes apparent that mama loving is not in short supply. When I arrive at Lucinea's tiny one-bedroom apartment, she has already adopted a French couchsurfer called Nico, who's been staying for a week. \"She adores him,\" whispers Oriana, whose time in Edinburgh has given her a distinct Scots lilt. \"She's taking him to the airport later and I'm sure there'll be tears.\"If you needed proof that the couchsurfing phenomenon has spread beyond the low-income, early-20s bracket, this Bel\u00e9m apartment is it: Lucinea, the fiftysomething divorcee, looking to meet new people now her children have left home, and Nico, the mid-30s stock trader, who could easily afford a flash hotel yet prefers the friendliness of a homestay.While Lucinea is at the airport with Nico, Oriana takes me to the weekly artisan market in the city's attractive main square, Pra\u00e7a da Rep\u00fablica. Under a shady walkway of mango trees, we pass vendors touting Amazonian fruit juices, capoeira instruments, tiny crocheted bikinis, elaborate wooden necklaces, and all manner of snacks, from crab cakes to fresh coconuts. Oriana tells me Bel\u00e9m was at its peak during Brazil's 19th-century rubber boom and we tour some of its grandest sites, built on the back of the industry, including the imposing opera house, Teatro da Paz. \"The problem was, just as the city was thriving, an Englishman came to the Amazon to look for rubber-tree seeds, smuggled them back to London and then established farms in Asia. Our industry collapsed.\" As tropical storm clouds gather above, we head back to the flat. We find Lucinea hard at work, in front of a huge pile of books. On top of her day job working for a bank, she's enrolled at night school to get the literature degree she never had time for as a young mother with five children. \"My dream,\" she tells me, \"is to do a masters in Spain.\"The following day, I want to give mother and daughter time to catch up with each other, so I set off to amuse myself around town, admiring the old Portuguese houses and the stylish new waterfront development, where pavement cafes overlook the Amazon. Then, come evening, I have a meeting with another Bel\u00e9m couchsurfer, Ricardo, a 28-year-old video editor.Ricardo takes me to a bar called Cosanostra (Travessa Benjamin Constant, 1499), with a cosy wooden interior and live band playing samba and bossa nova. Like many couchsurfers, Ricardo is open and easygoing, and there is no introductory awkwardness. \"I have lived alone since I was 17 and have always had an open door,\" he says. But hasn't he ever worried about security? He looks baffled. \"I think it's highly unlikely someone will come all the way from Europe to steal my VCR.\"Ricardo has hosted over 40 people and, inevitably, has racked up many stories. My favourite is the one about the couchsurfer who found out Ricardo was an amateur boxer and wanted to re-enact Fight Club. \"Senhor Ricardo! Senhor Ricardo! Are you really going to hit him?\" asked the wide-eyed doorman outside his apartment, as the guy continued to insist. \"In the end, I hit him,\" recalls Ricardo, matter-of-factly, \"but then he kicked me, hurt himself in the process, and he had to delay his boat trip up the Amazon.\"Ricardo's tales keep me so entertained that, before I know it, it's 3am. Fortunately, I forewarned Lucinea I would be back late. \"No problem. Enjoy yourself,\" she said, giving me a key so I could quietly let myself into her place and flop on the spare mattress laid out in the living room. The next day, she and Oriana take me to the city zoo, where the thick Amazonian foliage makes you momentarily feel like you are in the heart of the jungle. We have a great day and they both seem happy to have me tag along. However, there comes a line that I'm always wary of crossing: overstaying my welcome. The time seems right to move on and, besides, I've got a lot of ground to cover to get down Brazil's 9,000km-plus coastline. Forget about Facebook, MySpace and Bebo - Brazilians swear by the social networking site Orkut. Developed by Google, and named after one of its engineers, Orkut.com is Brazil's most visited website, and almost every internet user in the country has an account. Travellers to Brazil may find Orkut membership useful as many hotels, bars and tour companies have pages on the site. It also hosts thousands of travel-related subcommunities, including groups for users of couchsurfing and hospitalityclub, and it is an easy way to keep in touch with the locals you meet along the way. You could also give Orkut a try in India, where it is the second most visited site. Just don't bother in the US, where it sank without a trace, and was dubbed the \"David Hasselhoff of social networking\", in reference to the American star's heroic status abroad (namely in Germany) that was never matched domestically.Caf\u00e9 Imagin\u00e1rio (Quintino Bocai\u00fava, 1086) Where Bel\u00e9m's painters, poets and musicians hang out. Come for live music and famous jambu pizza, made with a local herb. Amazon Beer (Esta\u00e7\u00e3o das Docas, Boulevard Castilho Fran\u00e7a) A micro-brewery that produces the best local beer. During happy hour (Mon-Wed, 6.30pm-9pm) you pay R$24 (around \u00a37.45) for a big buffet and all you can drink. Or try feijoada, a bean and meat stew which is the national dish, on Saturdays. Boteco das Onze (Pra\u00e7a Frei Caetano Brand\u00e3o) A beautiful bar that looks like an old European tavern in a 17th-century house with excellent food and a great view over Guajar\u00e1 Bay.vicky.baker@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel", "Travel websites", "Social networking", "Travelling solo"], "title": "Going local in Bel\u00e9m, Brazil"},{"date": "2008-06-13T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Forging friendships, establishing cultural exchanges, promoting world peace ... Most hospitality websites insist they offer more than just a free place to stay. All, that is, but the unashamedly named globalfreeloaders.com. Globalfreeloaders doesn't have the community feel of rival sites, or the same level of membership (just 46,000 to couchsurfing's 570,000). The website's design has also held it back, with member profiles consisting of just a paragraph of text and no pictures. Unless it undergoes a dramatic overhaul, it may go the same way as sites such as the now defunct Travelhoo and Tripup. Nonetheless, I am determined to give globalfreeloaders a chance. It's not easy to find someone suitable or even someone who will reply, but, after weeks of trying, I finally find my first host: Gustavo, a 20-year-old medical student from Fortaleza. I had no burning desire to visit Fortaleza - a coastal city described by my guidebook as \"a sprawling commercial centre with little touristic appeal\" - but I am instantly charmed by Gustavo's enthusiasm. He tells me I am the only person to have contacted him since he registered on the site a year ago, and he seems eager to pull out the stops for my visit. On Saturday morning, he meets me at the bus station with his brother Victor, who is 22, and takes me to the stylishly decorated apartment they share with their mother, a funky-dressing lawyer with a sideline in interior design. Over the next two days, they take me to a samba gig at the Orbita bar, for \"the best crab in town\" amid a grove of palm trees on Porto das Dunas beach, and to ride a stomach-churning, 14-storey waterslide (beachpark.com.br).Admittedly, the waterpark isn't the most authentic experience I've had, but I do have an only-in-Brazil moment when I almost get banned from riding the slides because my bikini shorts aren't skimpy enough. \"They might get caught,\" the female lifeguard tells me in all seriousness. The ever-polite Gustavo and Victor make me very glad I took a gamble on globalfreeloaders and on Fortaleza. However, when Monday comes around, it's time to bid the boys farewell and head for Jericoacoara, Brazil's most-hyped beach town.With a curve of expansive beaches, surrounded by giant sand dunes, Jericoacoara's scenery is jaw-dropping. Less than 10 years ago, it was a tiny fishing village without electricity, but word soon spread. Now its main trade is dune-buggy rides, sandboarding and kitesurfing. It even has an Italian-owned resort charging up to \u00a3300 a night. My first contact is Ingrid, a new member of hospitalityclub.org who claims to be one of the Jeri \"pioneers\". A regular here since the 1980s, she bought land to build a guesthouse seven years ago (jeriathome.com). Ingrid can't offer free accommodation and so uses hospitalityclub for the same reason she uses Virtual Tourist and Lonely Planet's Thorntree forum: to promote Jeri. She insists she doesn't break site rules to advertise her guesthouse, but will mention it \"if someone happens to ask if I know a good place\". I ask Ingrid if she can help me to meet more Jeri locals, so she takes me to the beach, where, just outside one of the town's most expensive bars, we find her favourite barraca, a mobile cart selling beers and cocktails. We pull up some plastic stools and she introduces me to two young capoeira instructors, Nacilio and Wesley. Both are concerned about how rapid development is affecting the area's natural environment. However, they also talk of the opportunities tourism has brought. \"I love being my own boss here,\" Wesley says. \"I would never have been able to travel otherwise.\" \"And I wouldn't have learned to kitesurf,\" adds Nacilio. My only disappointment is that I didn't meet Ingrid earlier. The day before, she had taken some French guests on an alternative tour, away from the buggy trips. \"We were the only ones on the dunes,\" she says. \"We found a tiny village and some beautiful lakes. It was a real adventure.\"My timing is better when meeting my next hospitalityclub contact, 25-year-old Paula, who works at Jeri's most upmarket resort. On the night we meet she's hosting a cocktail evening in the apartment she shares with Roberta, a member of couchsurfing.com. Their house speciality is a vodka-enhanced chocolate milkshake, with a dash of guaran\u00e1 for energy. A pick-me-up is certainly something you need for a Brazilian night out. The forr\u00f3, a typical northeastern dance party that we're warming up for, doesn't get started until 2am. It's not easy being rhythmically challenged in Brazil, but my first foray into forr\u00f3 isn't nearly as disastrous as my attempts at salsa and samba. However, I'm sure my biggest challenge lies at my next stop: the country's music capital, Salvador. vicky.baker@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel websites", "Social networking", "Travel"], "title": "Going local in north-east Brazil"},{"date": "2008-05-14T09:37:58Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's environment minister, hailed as a champion of the green movement but scorned by powerful farming groups, resigned yesterday after losing key battles in her efforts to protect the Amazon rainforest.Marina Silva's resignation is likely to reinforce the view that the Brazilian president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, is more concerned with economic development than conservation, as a commodities export boom fuels Brazil's growth. It could be a setback for Brazil's ambitions to become a major voice in global environmental debates.\"Her resignation is a disaster for the Lula administration. If the government had any global credibility in environmental issues, it was because of minister Marina,\" said Jose Maria Cardoso da Silva, vice-president of the South American division of the environmental group Conservation International.Silva said in her resignation letter that she had stepped down because of the \"difficulty she had been having for some time in carrying out the national environment agenda,\" a presidential spokesman said. Farming leaders welcomed the resignation of the former rubber tapper and activist.\"I hope the next minister is not as radical as Marina. She was an obstacle to economic development in Brazil,\" said Rui Prado, head of the agriculture federation of Mato Grosso, a big farming state. Silva unsuccessfully opposed several infrastructure projects in the rainforest, including two hydroelectric dams and a road that will link the western grain belt with the Amazon river.According to local media, among Silva's possible successors is Carlos Minc, Rio de Janeiro state's environment secretary and a founder of the Green Party in Brazil. The presidential spokesman could not confirm his appointment. The soft-spoken Silva has been ill for years suffering from tropical diseases and metal poisoning.She was frequently at odds with Lula and other cabinet ministers, who she felt were more concerned with job growth and conquering foreign markets than with protecting the environment.Growing global demand for Brazilian commodities such as soybeans has helped accelerate destruction of the world's largest rainforest, and Silva blamed cattle ranchers and farmers who have pushed deeper into the forest in search of land. Lula publicly rebuffed her and named Roberto Mangabeira Unger, minister for strategic issues, to oversee the implementation of a government white paper on the Amazon.At the presentation of the proposal last week, aides of Silva and Lula clashed and publicly accused each other of incompetence. Silva also lost out to big business interests when the government authorised genetically modified grains and the construction of a third nuclear power plant. Marcelo Furtado, the campaign director for Greenpeace Brazil, said the resignation was \"disastrous\" and blamed it on the government's Amazon policy, pressure to ease environmental regulations on factories and Unger's appointment.\"Although Lula has adopted the environmental talk, the practice is development at whatever cost,\" Furtado said. The Amazon basin covers half of Brazil and holds a fifth of the world's fresh water, and 15% of all plant and animal species on earth. But illegal logging and mining are rife as well as legally sanctioned felling, and swaths of land the size of US states have been deforested in recent years.Between August and December 2007, an estimated 2,703 sq miles (7,000 sq km) were chopped down, equivalent to two-thirds of the total for the previous 12 months. Silva was an admired figure in the global environmental community and often wore ethnic-style clothing. Born to a humble family in the Amazon state of Acre, she worked as a rubber tapper and a maid before earning a university degree. She worked closely with renowned activist Chico Mendes supporting local communities against big farmers and loggers until his murder by ranchers in 1988.", "tags": ["Endangered habitats", "Trees and forests", "Environment", "Brazil", "World news", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Amazon defender quits Brazil environment post"},{"date": "2008-05-04T23:27:47Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's air force was yesterday scouring the country's north-eastern coastline for survivors after a plane carrying four British businessmen vanished over the Atlantic on Friday afternoon.The men, named as Alan Kempson, Nigel Hodges, Sean Woodhall and Ricky Every, were travelling from the north-eastern tourist capital of Salvador to the city of Ilh\u00e9us about 125 miles away on Friday afternoon when their twin-engine Cessna plane disappeared.Yesterday morning there were unconfirmed reports that pieces of wreckage, possibly from the missing plane, had been found near Ilh\u00e9us.The privately charted air taxi took off from Salvador's airport at 5pm on Friday. Forty-three minutes later its two Brazilian pilots communicated for the last time with the tower at Ilh\u00e9us airport to say they were preparing to land. They had been due to arrive nine minutes later.M\u00e1rcio Rodrigues Coutinho, a 43-year-old resident of the beach town Itacare, told Brazil's Globo TV he had seen a small plane flying low at about 6pm on Friday.\"The plane was much lower than usual for the planes that fly over this region. It was starting to get dark and its lights were on. I didn't hear any noise from the motor,\" he said.Two of the missing passengers are involved in Worldwide Destinations, a property development company that specialises in emerging property markets and has real-estate projects in Egypt and Brazil.The group is working on the construction of a luxury, seaside eco-resort with an 18-hole golf course near Ilh\u00e9us called the Barra Nova Pearl Eco-Nature Resort. The company's website claimed that \"Brazil's outstanding natural beauty, safe political climate, dazzling beaches, tropical habitat, exotic food, colourful culture and vibrant cities\" made it a perfect ex-pat destination. Woodhall is the group's president while Every reportedly lives in Brazil and is the company's representative in South America.According to the Brazilian newspaper A Tarde the group claimed to have business ties to Prince Albert of Monaco.In 2001 Woodhall received an 18-month suspended sentence after being convicted of a \u00a31.4m fraud in the UK. He subsequently moved to Spain. Hodges and Kempson work for Diamond Lifestyle Holdings, a Cambridgeshire-based finance company.Woodall's parents, speaking at their home in Tempsford, near Sandy, Bedfordshire, said they were refusing to give up hope.His father, who did not wish to be named, said: \"We're going out of our minds. I know they are now saying they are looking for bodies but we're keeping our hopes alive. We don't believe he's dead.\"We only found out yesterday when we saw it on Teletext. My wife and I had been gardening all day then sat down for a cup of tea and saw the news. My wife has a heart condition and is seriously distressed, I'm very worried for her.\"The local newspaper Correio da Bahia suggested the group's plane had been flying over the area where the eco-resort was to be constructed shortly before disappearing.Other reports claimed the group had been forced to cancel a helicopter trip earlier on the same day because of poor weather conditions.Claudio Soares, the owner of a Salvador-based air taxi company who knew the businessmen, said the group had planned to fly over several islands off Brazil's north eastern coast in a helicopter before heading to Ilheus. Bad weather forced them to cancel the trip, he said. \"The weather was not 100% for the flight.\"Caliana Mesquita, a 20-year-old student, was one of the last people to see the plane. \"The plane seemed a bit out of control. It swung out towards the sea and then back towards the forest. Not long after it disappeared,\" she told Globo.Yesterday a search party including helicopters, boats and foot patrols was searching a 25-mile stretch of coastline for the executives and their two Brazilian pilots.According to the Brazilian air force there have been 40 accidents involving small planes this year.With its virtually uninterrupted beaches and year-round sun, north-eastern Brazil is billed as the new Algarve by property developers. A growing number of British citizens, many of them retired, are choosing to set up home there, drawn by the golden beaches and the cheaper cost of living. Several European companies offer slices of the Brazilian coastline for a fraction of the price charged in more established resort areas such as the Caribbean.In January this year David Beckham visited the region to announce the construction of a football academy in the north-eastern state of Natal. The development, funded by a Norwegian development group, will include a 10,000-capacity beachside football stadium.", "tags": ["Brazil", "UK news", "World news", "Travel", "Plane crashes", "Air transport", "Americas"], "title": "Search continues for Britons missing after Brazil plane crash"},{"date": "2008-05-04T14:46:37Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The search is continuing for four British businessmen after their light aircraft went missing in Brazil two days ago.A number of aircraft were sent to look for the plane after it disappeared off the Atlantic coast, as family and friends of Alan Kempson, Nigel Hodges, Sean Woodall and Ricky Every waited for news. Brazilian authorities were also reportedly investigating eyewitnesses who said they saw a plane crash. Kempson and Hodges are both directors of a finance company called Diamond Lifestyle Holdings, based in Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire. Non-executive chairman Paul Hughes said: \"All we know is that the plane is missing. \"I am obviously very worried and my thoughts are with their wives and families.\" Hughes said he has worked with Diamond chief executive Kempson, who is 46 and lives in Spain, and finance director and company secretary Mr Hodges, who is 52 and lives in Somerset, for almost two years and they have become friends as well as colleagues. The Foreign Office confirmed yesterday that the four Britons were on board the plane when it vanished off the north-eastern coast, along with two pilots. According to reports, they are involved in the tourist property industry and were looking at hotels and apartments in Brazil's tropical Bahia region. The search was launched after the twin-engine Cessna 310 they were in lost contact with air-traffic controllers minutes before it was due to land in the coastal city of Ilheus on Friday night. A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: \"I can confirm that there were four passengers, all four of whom were British, and two pilots.\" The spokeswoman added that next of kin had been informed, and that no other details about the men were available. It is understood that three of the four do not live in the UK. Teams from the British consulate in Sao Paulo have travelled to the resort, in the north-east of the country, to provide assistance.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "UK news", "Travel", "Americas"], "title": "Search continues for Britons missing in Brazil"},{"date": "2008-07-09T11:27:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's media giant Organizacoes Globo may be on the verge of getting bigger still. According to an AP report, it is considering buying Group Estado, owner of the country's second-largest newspaper, Estado de S. Paulo.Globo already controls the nation's largest TV network and a host of radio stations, magazines and newspapers including O Globo Extra and Diaro de S. Paulo.But, aside from the possibility of greater concentration of ownership, the other problem facing the Brazilian media is a growing threat to freedom of expression. A S\u00e3o Paulo newspaper, Jornal da Tarde has been forbidden by a federal judge from publishing a report about an official investigation into alleged financial irregularities by a doctors' organisation. The reporter was still working on the story when the president of the doctors' institution applied to the court for an injunction.The paper's editor-in-chief, Claudia Belfort, regards it as a form of judicial censorship, arguing that it is an unconstitutional decision. She and her lawyers are preparing an appeal.Three weeks ago, another judge imposed a fine on the three of Brazil's leading media outlets - O Estado de S\u00e3o Paulo, Veja Magazine and Folha de S\u00e3o Paulo - because they published interviews with candidates in a forthcoming election.The judge considered them to be advertisements, which are not allowed for a set period before an election. As a senior journalist remarked, the judge did not appear to know the difference between journalism and advertisement.Some editors are arguing that the censorship of 40 years ago, when the country was under military dictatorship, is returning, not least due to a lack of judicial knowledge.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil facing twin threat to media"},{"date": "2008-07-09T11:27:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's media giant Organizacoes Globo may be on the verge of getting bigger still. According to an AP report, it is considering buying Group Estado, owner of the country's second-largest newspaper, Estado de S. Paulo.Globo already controls the nation's largest TV network and a host of radio stations, magazines and newspapers including O Globo Extra and Diaro de S. Paulo.But, aside from the possibility of greater concentration of ownership, the other problem facing the Brazilian media is a growing threat to freedom of expression. A S\u00e3o Paulo newspaper, Jornal da Tarde has been forbidden by a federal judge from publishing a report about an official investigation into alleged financial irregularities by a doctors' organisation. The reporter was still working on the story when the president of the doctors' institution applied to the court for an injunction.The paper's editor-in-chief, Claudia Belfort, regards it as a form of judicial censorship, arguing that it is an unconstitutional decision. She and her lawyers are preparing an appeal.Three weeks ago, another judge imposed a fine on the three of Brazil's leading media outlets - O Estado de S\u00e3o Paulo, Veja Magazine and Folha de S\u00e3o Paulo - because they published interviews with candidates in a forthcoming election.The judge considered them to be advertisements, which are not allowed for a set period before an election. As a senior journalist remarked, the judge did not appear to know the difference between journalism and advertisement.Some editors are arguing that the censorship of 40 years ago, when the country was under military dictatorship, is returning, not least due to a lack of judicial knowledge.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil facing twin threat to media"},{"date": "2008-08-31T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Concerns over the destruction of the Brazilian rainforest resurfaced at the weekend after it emerged that deforestation jumped by 64% over the last 12 months, according to official government data.Brazil's National Institute for Space Research this week said that around 3,145 square miles - an area half the size of Wales - were razed between August 2007 and August 2008.With commodity prices hitting recent highs and loggers and soy farmers pushing ever further into the Amazon jungle, satellite images captured by a real-time monitoring system, known in Brazil as Deter, showed that deforestation was once again on the rise after three years on the wane.The figures launched the controversy over how best to preserve the Amazon rainforest onto the front pages of Brazilian newspapers, and triggered a war of words between environmental campaigners and members of the government who claim that their struggle to protect the rainforest is not being given sufficient recognition.\"This is not about luck, it is about work, work, work,\" Brazil's environment minister, Carlos Minc, told reporters. News that total deforestation rose over the entire year came quickly after the announcement of monthly figures showing that month-on-month deforestation had in fact fallen. Government figures show that between May and June this year deforestation fell by 25%. Despite the good news in recent months about the deforestation of the world's largest tropical forest slowing, Minc admitted his country still faced huge challenges in order to stamp out illegal logging and described the levels of destruction as \"alarming\".\"We can't celebrate [the monthly drops] because deforestation is [still] very large. We have to invest everything into sustainable development,\" Minc told the Folha de Sao Paulo newspaper.Critics claimed that the annual statistics gave a more accurate picture of the destruction been wrought on the Brazilian jungle. Environmental campaigners fear that Brazil's push to expand its economy and develop the Amazon region is posing increasing threats to Brazil's natural resources. They accuse the government of retreating from its promises to defend the Amazon rainforest, which has been decimated since the 1970s by a mixture of logging, cattle ranching and soy farming. \"The president [Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva] said there would be no steps backwards,\" the former environment minister Marina Silva said in an interview published yesterday in the O Globo newspaper. \"But suddenly there is a conjuncture of things that go against everything that was being done.\"", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Brazil", "Climate change", "Environment", "World news", "Deforestation", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil: Deforestation rises sharply as farmers push into Amazon"},{"date": "2008-07-09T11:27:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's media giant Organizacoes Globo may be on the verge of getting bigger still. According to an AP report, it is considering buying Group Estado, owner of the country's second-largest newspaper, Estado de S. Paulo.Globo already controls the nation's largest TV network and a host of radio stations, magazines and newspapers including O Globo Extra and Diaro de S. Paulo.But, aside from the possibility of greater concentration of ownership, the other problem facing the Brazilian media is a growing threat to freedom of expression. A S\u00e3o Paulo newspaper, Jornal da Tarde has been forbidden by a federal judge from publishing a report about an official investigation into alleged financial irregularities by a doctors' organisation. The reporter was still working on the story when the president of the doctors' institution applied to the court for an injunction.The paper's editor-in-chief, Claudia Belfort, regards it as a form of judicial censorship, arguing that it is an unconstitutional decision. She and her lawyers are preparing an appeal.Three weeks ago, another judge imposed a fine on the three of Brazil's leading media outlets - O Estado de S\u00e3o Paulo, Veja Magazine and Folha de S\u00e3o Paulo - because they published interviews with candidates in a forthcoming election.The judge considered them to be advertisements, which are not allowed for a set period before an election. As a senior journalist remarked, the judge did not appear to know the difference between journalism and advertisement.Some editors are arguing that the censorship of 40 years ago, when the country was under military dictatorship, is returning, not least due to a lack of judicial knowledge.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil facing twin threat to media"},{"date": "2008-08-31T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Concerns over the destruction of the Brazilian rainforest resurfaced at the weekend after it emerged that deforestation jumped by 64% over the last 12 months, according to official government data.Brazil's National Institute for Space Research this week said that around 3,145 square miles - an area half the size of Wales - were razed between August 2007 and August 2008.With commodity prices hitting recent highs and loggers and soy farmers pushing ever further into the Amazon jungle, satellite images captured by a real-time monitoring system, known in Brazil as Deter, showed that deforestation was once again on the rise after three years on the wane.The figures launched the controversy over how best to preserve the Amazon rainforest onto the front pages of Brazilian newspapers, and triggered a war of words between environmental campaigners and members of the government who claim that their struggle to protect the rainforest is not being given sufficient recognition.\"This is not about luck, it is about work, work, work,\" Brazil's environment minister, Carlos Minc, told reporters. News that total deforestation rose over the entire year came quickly after the announcement of monthly figures showing that month-on-month deforestation had in fact fallen. Government figures show that between May and June this year deforestation fell by 25%. Despite the good news in recent months about the deforestation of the world's largest tropical forest slowing, Minc admitted his country still faced huge challenges in order to stamp out illegal logging and described the levels of destruction as \"alarming\".\"We can't celebrate [the monthly drops] because deforestation is [still] very large. We have to invest everything into sustainable development,\" Minc told the Folha de Sao Paulo newspaper.Critics claimed that the annual statistics gave a more accurate picture of the destruction been wrought on the Brazilian jungle. Environmental campaigners fear that Brazil's push to expand its economy and develop the Amazon region is posing increasing threats to Brazil's natural resources. They accuse the government of retreating from its promises to defend the Amazon rainforest, which has been decimated since the 1970s by a mixture of logging, cattle ranching and soy farming. \"The president [Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva] said there would be no steps backwards,\" the former environment minister Marina Silva said in an interview published yesterday in the O Globo newspaper. \"But suddenly there is a conjuncture of things that go against everything that was being done.\"", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Brazil", "Climate change", "Environment", "World news", "Deforestation", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil: Deforestation rises sharply as farmers push into Amazon"},{"date": "2008-07-31T15:55:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazilian police have found the dismembered body of a 17-year-old British girl in a suitcase.Cara Marie Burke's boyfriend was arrested after her cut-up remains were found in the city of Goiania in central Brazil, officers said today.The chief of police in Goias, Jose Maria da Silva, said her boyfriend, named as Dioli Mohammed, had confessed to the murder.\"He did not show any regret,\" he told Sky News.Silva said Cara had been murdered on Sunday night and her body parts were identified by a distinguishing tattoo. He added: \"The mother of the victim lives in London. She already knows this sad news. I don't know what she is planning to do.\" Burke had been decapitated and her arms and legs cut off, according to the Brazilian website Globo.com. The report said the suitcase was found on the banks of a river on the outskirts of the city - the capital of the state of Goias, in the central-western region of Brazil.A spokeswoman for the Goias state police said Burke and her boyfriend, named as Dioli Mohammed, came to Brazil on tourism visas around three months ago. He is being held as a suspect in her death, she said. Karine Neves, a spokeswoman for the British Embassy in Brasilia, said it was unclear what Burke was doing in Brazil or how long she had been in the country. Neves said a British vice-consul in Goiania was tracking the case and the police investigation.The Foreign Office said in a statement: \"We can confirm the death of a British national in Goiania in Brazil. \"The body was discovered early on Tuesday. Next of kin have been informed and we are providing consular assistance to the family.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "UK news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "British girl's remains found in suitcase in Brazil"},{"date": "2008-07-09T11:27:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's media giant Organizacoes Globo may be on the verge of getting bigger still. According to an AP report, it is considering buying Group Estado, owner of the country's second-largest newspaper, Estado de S. Paulo.Globo already controls the nation's largest TV network and a host of radio stations, magazines and newspapers including O Globo Extra and Diaro de S. Paulo.But, aside from the possibility of greater concentration of ownership, the other problem facing the Brazilian media is a growing threat to freedom of expression. A S\u00e3o Paulo newspaper, Jornal da Tarde has been forbidden by a federal judge from publishing a report about an official investigation into alleged financial irregularities by a doctors' organisation. The reporter was still working on the story when the president of the doctors' institution applied to the court for an injunction.The paper's editor-in-chief, Claudia Belfort, regards it as a form of judicial censorship, arguing that it is an unconstitutional decision. She and her lawyers are preparing an appeal.Three weeks ago, another judge imposed a fine on the three of Brazil's leading media outlets - O Estado de S\u00e3o Paulo, Veja Magazine and Folha de S\u00e3o Paulo - because they published interviews with candidates in a forthcoming election.The judge considered them to be advertisements, which are not allowed for a set period before an election. As a senior journalist remarked, the judge did not appear to know the difference between journalism and advertisement.Some editors are arguing that the censorship of 40 years ago, when the country was under military dictatorship, is returning, not least due to a lack of judicial knowledge.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil facing twin threat to media"},{"date": "2008-08-31T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Concerns over the destruction of the Brazilian rainforest resurfaced at the weekend after it emerged that deforestation jumped by 64% over the last 12 months, according to official government data.Brazil's National Institute for Space Research this week said that around 3,145 square miles - an area half the size of Wales - were razed between August 2007 and August 2008.With commodity prices hitting recent highs and loggers and soy farmers pushing ever further into the Amazon jungle, satellite images captured by a real-time monitoring system, known in Brazil as Deter, showed that deforestation was once again on the rise after three years on the wane.The figures launched the controversy over how best to preserve the Amazon rainforest onto the front pages of Brazilian newspapers, and triggered a war of words between environmental campaigners and members of the government who claim that their struggle to protect the rainforest is not being given sufficient recognition.\"This is not about luck, it is about work, work, work,\" Brazil's environment minister, Carlos Minc, told reporters. News that total deforestation rose over the entire year came quickly after the announcement of monthly figures showing that month-on-month deforestation had in fact fallen. Government figures show that between May and June this year deforestation fell by 25%. Despite the good news in recent months about the deforestation of the world's largest tropical forest slowing, Minc admitted his country still faced huge challenges in order to stamp out illegal logging and described the levels of destruction as \"alarming\".\"We can't celebrate [the monthly drops] because deforestation is [still] very large. We have to invest everything into sustainable development,\" Minc told the Folha de Sao Paulo newspaper.Critics claimed that the annual statistics gave a more accurate picture of the destruction been wrought on the Brazilian jungle. Environmental campaigners fear that Brazil's push to expand its economy and develop the Amazon region is posing increasing threats to Brazil's natural resources. They accuse the government of retreating from its promises to defend the Amazon rainforest, which has been decimated since the 1970s by a mixture of logging, cattle ranching and soy farming. \"The president [Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva] said there would be no steps backwards,\" the former environment minister Marina Silva said in an interview published yesterday in the O Globo newspaper. \"But suddenly there is a conjuncture of things that go against everything that was being done.\"", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Brazil", "Climate change", "Environment", "World news", "Deforestation", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil: Deforestation rises sharply as farmers push into Amazon"},{"date": "2008-07-31T15:55:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazilian police have found the dismembered body of a 17-year-old British girl in a suitcase.Cara Marie Burke's boyfriend was arrested after her cut-up remains were found in the city of Goiania in central Brazil, officers said today.The chief of police in Goias, Jose Maria da Silva, said her boyfriend, named as Dioli Mohammed, had confessed to the murder.\"He did not show any regret,\" he told Sky News.Silva said Cara had been murdered on Sunday night and her body parts were identified by a distinguishing tattoo. He added: \"The mother of the victim lives in London. She already knows this sad news. I don't know what she is planning to do.\" Burke had been decapitated and her arms and legs cut off, according to the Brazilian website Globo.com. The report said the suitcase was found on the banks of a river on the outskirts of the city - the capital of the state of Goias, in the central-western region of Brazil.A spokeswoman for the Goias state police said Burke and her boyfriend, named as Dioli Mohammed, came to Brazil on tourism visas around three months ago. He is being held as a suspect in her death, she said. Karine Neves, a spokeswoman for the British Embassy in Brasilia, said it was unclear what Burke was doing in Brazil or how long she had been in the country. Neves said a British vice-consul in Goiania was tracking the case and the police investigation.The Foreign Office said in a statement: \"We can confirm the death of a British national in Goiania in Brazil. \"The body was discovered early on Tuesday. Next of kin have been informed and we are providing consular assistance to the family.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "UK news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "British girl's remains found in suitcase in Brazil"},{"date": "2008-07-23T14:24:24Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The discovery of hundreds of young penguins washing up along the Brazilian shoreline over the past month has sparked a scientific mystery over what may have led the birds thousands of miles astray.The so-called Magellanic penguins began appearing in late June. Many of them dead or barely alive, they arrived on beaches all over south-eastern Brazil about 2,500 miles from their native southern Patagonia. Some of the penguins have since been spotted as far north as the warm-water beaches of the Brazilian state of Bahia, another 600 miles up the Atlantic coast.Although the penguins regularly migrate up to southern Brazil in search of food, the sheer quantity of penguins washing up farther away than normal has prompted worries that human activity may be throwing off the animals' migratory cycle.\"The penguin population is intimately linked to their supplies of food, so this suggests something is happening to the population of fish they eat,\" said biologist Marcelo Bertellotti at the National Patagonic Center in Puerto Madryn, Argentina.\"It appears the penguins are not finding fish where they normally do, and one reason could be that warming waters and climate change have impacted the fish population.\"No one has yet conducted a formal study of the phenomenon, but Brazilian scientists also blamed human activity for throwing off the penguins' migration.Some said a recent oil spill off the coast of Uruguay might have wiped out fish populations there, forcing the penguins to search farther north for food. Others suggested that melting ice in Antarctica had strengthened the northbound Malvinas ocean current this year, trapping younger, more vulnerable penguins.Whatever the reason, dozens of young penguins continued washing up along the Rio de Janeiro state coast this week, sending wildlife officials on a race to rescue the birds.They found some covered in petroleum, which had exposed them to hypothermia because the contamination eats away the natural body oils that keep penguins waterproof and warm.About half of the rescued penguins died by the time fire fighters transported them to the state's main rehabilitation centre, the zoo in the south-eastern Brazilian city of Niteroi, which has handled about 170 penguins over the past month.On Monday, fire fighters brought in a penguin that weighed less than half of its normal body weight and could only weakly flap its wings. It was one of more than a dozen lost penguins brought to the zoo that day.Zoo officials injected the bird with glucose and tube-fed it a solution of ground fish and water before placing it in a plastic tray amid nearly a hundred other gravely ill, young penguins. One of those penguins had died just moments before the most recent arrival, said veterinarian Thiago Muniz.\"We find lots of penguins here with catfish bones in them, which they normally don't eat,\" Muniz said. \"That suggests they're not finding their normal fish.\"Saltwater catfish have a lower fat content than the cold-water fish penguins normally consume, meaning the penguins were getting less thermal protection.Scientists say human development and global warming have already dramatically altered the frozen Patagonian landscape, with dozens of glaciers shrinking and rain patterns shifting. Nonetheless, hundreds of thousands of Magellanic penguins have survived and flourish in the region.That's under threat, however, as oil production and other economic activity invade the penguins' habitat.\"The penguins are dealing with fishing nets and oil spills and all kinds of problems,\" said Lauro Barcellos, director of an oceanography museum in the southern Brazilian city of Porto Alegre. \"That means penguins are looking each time farther for food, and more of them aren't making it.\"Bertellotti of the National Patagonic Center said, however, that the fishing industry in Patagonia has yet to seriously affect penguins because the birds normally eat anchovies, other small fish and squid near the ocean surface, as opposed to the deep-water fish sought by commercial fisheries.The penguins that recover in Niteroi will be flown to Barcellos' museum, where they'll be released into the ocean. And from there, biologists hope, the penguins will find their way back into the migratory cycle that so many of them strayed from this year.", "tags": ["Endangered habitats", "Environment", "Brazil", "Argentina", "Oil spills", "Climate change", "Wildlife", "Conservation", "Americas"], "title": "Penguins wash ashore in Brazil, prompting concerns about their habitat"},{"date": "2008-07-09T11:27:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's media giant Organizacoes Globo may be on the verge of getting bigger still. According to an AP report, it is considering buying Group Estado, owner of the country's second-largest newspaper, Estado de S. Paulo.Globo already controls the nation's largest TV network and a host of radio stations, magazines and newspapers including O Globo Extra and Diaro de S. Paulo.But, aside from the possibility of greater concentration of ownership, the other problem facing the Brazilian media is a growing threat to freedom of expression. A S\u00e3o Paulo newspaper, Jornal da Tarde has been forbidden by a federal judge from publishing a report about an official investigation into alleged financial irregularities by a doctors' organisation. The reporter was still working on the story when the president of the doctors' institution applied to the court for an injunction.The paper's editor-in-chief, Claudia Belfort, regards it as a form of judicial censorship, arguing that it is an unconstitutional decision. She and her lawyers are preparing an appeal.Three weeks ago, another judge imposed a fine on the three of Brazil's leading media outlets - O Estado de S\u00e3o Paulo, Veja Magazine and Folha de S\u00e3o Paulo - because they published interviews with candidates in a forthcoming election.The judge considered them to be advertisements, which are not allowed for a set period before an election. As a senior journalist remarked, the judge did not appear to know the difference between journalism and advertisement.Some editors are arguing that the censorship of 40 years ago, when the country was under military dictatorship, is returning, not least due to a lack of judicial knowledge.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil facing twin threat to media"},{"date": "2008-08-31T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Concerns over the destruction of the Brazilian rainforest resurfaced at the weekend after it emerged that deforestation jumped by 64% over the last 12 months, according to official government data.Brazil's National Institute for Space Research this week said that around 3,145 square miles - an area half the size of Wales - were razed between August 2007 and August 2008.With commodity prices hitting recent highs and loggers and soy farmers pushing ever further into the Amazon jungle, satellite images captured by a real-time monitoring system, known in Brazil as Deter, showed that deforestation was once again on the rise after three years on the wane.The figures launched the controversy over how best to preserve the Amazon rainforest onto the front pages of Brazilian newspapers, and triggered a war of words between environmental campaigners and members of the government who claim that their struggle to protect the rainforest is not being given sufficient recognition.\"This is not about luck, it is about work, work, work,\" Brazil's environment minister, Carlos Minc, told reporters. News that total deforestation rose over the entire year came quickly after the announcement of monthly figures showing that month-on-month deforestation had in fact fallen. Government figures show that between May and June this year deforestation fell by 25%. Despite the good news in recent months about the deforestation of the world's largest tropical forest slowing, Minc admitted his country still faced huge challenges in order to stamp out illegal logging and described the levels of destruction as \"alarming\".\"We can't celebrate [the monthly drops] because deforestation is [still] very large. We have to invest everything into sustainable development,\" Minc told the Folha de Sao Paulo newspaper.Critics claimed that the annual statistics gave a more accurate picture of the destruction been wrought on the Brazilian jungle. Environmental campaigners fear that Brazil's push to expand its economy and develop the Amazon region is posing increasing threats to Brazil's natural resources. They accuse the government of retreating from its promises to defend the Amazon rainforest, which has been decimated since the 1970s by a mixture of logging, cattle ranching and soy farming. \"The president [Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva] said there would be no steps backwards,\" the former environment minister Marina Silva said in an interview published yesterday in the O Globo newspaper. \"But suddenly there is a conjuncture of things that go against everything that was being done.\"", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Brazil", "Climate change", "Environment", "World news", "Deforestation", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil: Deforestation rises sharply as farmers push into Amazon"},{"date": "2008-07-31T15:55:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazilian police have found the dismembered body of a 17-year-old British girl in a suitcase.Cara Marie Burke's boyfriend was arrested after her cut-up remains were found in the city of Goiania in central Brazil, officers said today.The chief of police in Goias, Jose Maria da Silva, said her boyfriend, named as Dioli Mohammed, had confessed to the murder.\"He did not show any regret,\" he told Sky News.Silva said Cara had been murdered on Sunday night and her body parts were identified by a distinguishing tattoo. He added: \"The mother of the victim lives in London. She already knows this sad news. I don't know what she is planning to do.\" Burke had been decapitated and her arms and legs cut off, according to the Brazilian website Globo.com. The report said the suitcase was found on the banks of a river on the outskirts of the city - the capital of the state of Goias, in the central-western region of Brazil.A spokeswoman for the Goias state police said Burke and her boyfriend, named as Dioli Mohammed, came to Brazil on tourism visas around three months ago. He is being held as a suspect in her death, she said. Karine Neves, a spokeswoman for the British Embassy in Brasilia, said it was unclear what Burke was doing in Brazil or how long she had been in the country. Neves said a British vice-consul in Goiania was tracking the case and the police investigation.The Foreign Office said in a statement: \"We can confirm the death of a British national in Goiania in Brazil. \"The body was discovered early on Tuesday. Next of kin have been informed and we are providing consular assistance to the family.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "UK news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "British girl's remains found in suitcase in Brazil"},{"date": "2008-07-23T14:24:24Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The discovery of hundreds of young penguins washing up along the Brazilian shoreline over the past month has sparked a scientific mystery over what may have led the birds thousands of miles astray.The so-called Magellanic penguins began appearing in late June. Many of them dead or barely alive, they arrived on beaches all over south-eastern Brazil about 2,500 miles from their native southern Patagonia. Some of the penguins have since been spotted as far north as the warm-water beaches of the Brazilian state of Bahia, another 600 miles up the Atlantic coast.Although the penguins regularly migrate up to southern Brazil in search of food, the sheer quantity of penguins washing up farther away than normal has prompted worries that human activity may be throwing off the animals' migratory cycle.\"The penguin population is intimately linked to their supplies of food, so this suggests something is happening to the population of fish they eat,\" said biologist Marcelo Bertellotti at the National Patagonic Center in Puerto Madryn, Argentina.\"It appears the penguins are not finding fish where they normally do, and one reason could be that warming waters and climate change have impacted the fish population.\"No one has yet conducted a formal study of the phenomenon, but Brazilian scientists also blamed human activity for throwing off the penguins' migration.Some said a recent oil spill off the coast of Uruguay might have wiped out fish populations there, forcing the penguins to search farther north for food. Others suggested that melting ice in Antarctica had strengthened the northbound Malvinas ocean current this year, trapping younger, more vulnerable penguins.Whatever the reason, dozens of young penguins continued washing up along the Rio de Janeiro state coast this week, sending wildlife officials on a race to rescue the birds.They found some covered in petroleum, which had exposed them to hypothermia because the contamination eats away the natural body oils that keep penguins waterproof and warm.About half of the rescued penguins died by the time fire fighters transported them to the state's main rehabilitation centre, the zoo in the south-eastern Brazilian city of Niteroi, which has handled about 170 penguins over the past month.On Monday, fire fighters brought in a penguin that weighed less than half of its normal body weight and could only weakly flap its wings. It was one of more than a dozen lost penguins brought to the zoo that day.Zoo officials injected the bird with glucose and tube-fed it a solution of ground fish and water before placing it in a plastic tray amid nearly a hundred other gravely ill, young penguins. One of those penguins had died just moments before the most recent arrival, said veterinarian Thiago Muniz.\"We find lots of penguins here with catfish bones in them, which they normally don't eat,\" Muniz said. \"That suggests they're not finding their normal fish.\"Saltwater catfish have a lower fat content than the cold-water fish penguins normally consume, meaning the penguins were getting less thermal protection.Scientists say human development and global warming have already dramatically altered the frozen Patagonian landscape, with dozens of glaciers shrinking and rain patterns shifting. Nonetheless, hundreds of thousands of Magellanic penguins have survived and flourish in the region.That's under threat, however, as oil production and other economic activity invade the penguins' habitat.\"The penguins are dealing with fishing nets and oil spills and all kinds of problems,\" said Lauro Barcellos, director of an oceanography museum in the southern Brazilian city of Porto Alegre. \"That means penguins are looking each time farther for food, and more of them aren't making it.\"Bertellotti of the National Patagonic Center said, however, that the fishing industry in Patagonia has yet to seriously affect penguins because the birds normally eat anchovies, other small fish and squid near the ocean surface, as opposed to the deep-water fish sought by commercial fisheries.The penguins that recover in Niteroi will be flown to Barcellos' museum, where they'll be released into the ocean. And from there, biologists hope, the penguins will find their way back into the migratory cycle that so many of them strayed from this year.", "tags": ["Endangered habitats", "Environment", "Brazil", "Argentina", "Oil spills", "Climate change", "Wildlife", "Conservation", "Americas"], "title": "Penguins wash ashore in Brazil, prompting concerns about their habitat"},{"date": "2008-08-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is bracing for an imminent ruling on the future of one of its largest indigenous reservations - a decision that campaigners claim could spell disaster for indigenous communities across the country.The supreme court is expected to announce its verdict tomorrow in a case brought by a group of farmers, businessmen and politicians who claim the 2005 creation of the Raposa Serra do Sol reservation was \"unconstitutional\" and are demanding the right to remain.Located in the isolated Amazonian state of Roraima, the sprawling 1.7m-hectare (4.2m-acre) reserve was ordered by Brazil's president, Luiz In\u00e1cio da Silva, and is home to more than 18,000 aborigines from five different ethnic groups. Campaigners hailed the establishment of Raposa Serra do Sol as a historic move to protect the country's indigenous peoples from contact with the outside world.Nearly all non-aborigines require legal permission to enter indigenous lands. But several rice farmers have continued to operate inside the reserve. They describe the demarcation of Raposa Serra do Sol as an obstacle to economic development and point to the fact that there are numerous aborigines among their employees.Violence erupted earlier this year after government attempts to remove all non-indigenous people from the reserve. Bridges were burned and one group of aborigines was shot at, allegedly by gunmen hired by local farmers.Paulo Cesar Quartiero, a rice farmer who was arrested earlier this year for resisting eviction, has blamed a foreign conspiracy for the creation of the reserve. \"History will show who is selling Brazil and who is defending the nation,\" he said last week.Many senior members of the military see the reserve - located along the borders with Venezuela and Guyana - as a threat to national security. Last year, the Brazilian military told the Guardian it believed drug traffickers may be taking advantage of the state's absence and using aborigines to smuggle cocaine into Brazil.But campaigners say a supreme court ruling that reduced the size of the reserve or allowed non-aborigines to remain would encourage further invasions by miners, loggers and ranchers that could devastate the region's indigenous communities.Fiona Watson, a campaigner from Survival International, a NGO, said a decision tomorrow in favour of the farmers could destroy the indigenous \"way of life and set a catastrophic precedent for Indians all over the country\".During a visit to one village in the isolated reserve last year Pierlangela Nascimento da Cunha, a prominent indigenous campaigner, said the conflict over Raposa Serra do Sol was part of a wider offensive against indigenous rights. That offensive included a government bill that proposed opening up such reserves to mining companies in search of gold and diamonds.\"Brazil wants to be a big power. But this does not give it the right to steamroll over the rights of the Indians,\" said Cunha, who travelled to London in June to discuss the situation in Raposa Serra do Sol with British MPs and members of the Foreign Office.\"The development of our country cannot be achieved through the extinction of its indigenous people and by disrespecting their rights. The big economic interests see [aborigines] as an obstacle.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Environment", "Human rights", "World news", "Law", "Indigenous peoples", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Environment: Fate of Amazon tribes on trial as Brazil awaits reservation ruling"},{"date": "2008-07-09T11:27:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's media giant Organizacoes Globo may be on the verge of getting bigger still. According to an AP report, it is considering buying Group Estado, owner of the country's second-largest newspaper, Estado de S. Paulo.Globo already controls the nation's largest TV network and a host of radio stations, magazines and newspapers including O Globo Extra and Diaro de S. Paulo.But, aside from the possibility of greater concentration of ownership, the other problem facing the Brazilian media is a growing threat to freedom of expression. A S\u00e3o Paulo newspaper, Jornal da Tarde has been forbidden by a federal judge from publishing a report about an official investigation into alleged financial irregularities by a doctors' organisation. The reporter was still working on the story when the president of the doctors' institution applied to the court for an injunction.The paper's editor-in-chief, Claudia Belfort, regards it as a form of judicial censorship, arguing that it is an unconstitutional decision. She and her lawyers are preparing an appeal.Three weeks ago, another judge imposed a fine on the three of Brazil's leading media outlets - O Estado de S\u00e3o Paulo, Veja Magazine and Folha de S\u00e3o Paulo - because they published interviews with candidates in a forthcoming election.The judge considered them to be advertisements, which are not allowed for a set period before an election. As a senior journalist remarked, the judge did not appear to know the difference between journalism and advertisement.Some editors are arguing that the censorship of 40 years ago, when the country was under military dictatorship, is returning, not least due to a lack of judicial knowledge.", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil facing twin threat to media"},{"date": "2008-08-31T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Concerns over the destruction of the Brazilian rainforest resurfaced at the weekend after it emerged that deforestation jumped by 64% over the last 12 months, according to official government data.Brazil's National Institute for Space Research this week said that around 3,145 square miles - an area half the size of Wales - were razed between August 2007 and August 2008.With commodity prices hitting recent highs and loggers and soy farmers pushing ever further into the Amazon jungle, satellite images captured by a real-time monitoring system, known in Brazil as Deter, showed that deforestation was once again on the rise after three years on the wane.The figures launched the controversy over how best to preserve the Amazon rainforest onto the front pages of Brazilian newspapers, and triggered a war of words between environmental campaigners and members of the government who claim that their struggle to protect the rainforest is not being given sufficient recognition.\"This is not about luck, it is about work, work, work,\" Brazil's environment minister, Carlos Minc, told reporters. News that total deforestation rose over the entire year came quickly after the announcement of monthly figures showing that month-on-month deforestation had in fact fallen. Government figures show that between May and June this year deforestation fell by 25%. Despite the good news in recent months about the deforestation of the world's largest tropical forest slowing, Minc admitted his country still faced huge challenges in order to stamp out illegal logging and described the levels of destruction as \"alarming\".\"We can't celebrate [the monthly drops] because deforestation is [still] very large. We have to invest everything into sustainable development,\" Minc told the Folha de Sao Paulo newspaper.Critics claimed that the annual statistics gave a more accurate picture of the destruction been wrought on the Brazilian jungle. Environmental campaigners fear that Brazil's push to expand its economy and develop the Amazon region is posing increasing threats to Brazil's natural resources. They accuse the government of retreating from its promises to defend the Amazon rainforest, which has been decimated since the 1970s by a mixture of logging, cattle ranching and soy farming. \"The president [Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva] said there would be no steps backwards,\" the former environment minister Marina Silva said in an interview published yesterday in the O Globo newspaper. \"But suddenly there is a conjuncture of things that go against everything that was being done.\"", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Brazil", "Climate change", "Environment", "World news", "Deforestation", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil: Deforestation rises sharply as farmers push into Amazon"},{"date": "2008-07-31T15:55:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazilian police have found the dismembered body of a 17-year-old British girl in a suitcase.Cara Marie Burke's boyfriend was arrested after her cut-up remains were found in the city of Goiania in central Brazil, officers said today.The chief of police in Goias, Jose Maria da Silva, said her boyfriend, named as Dioli Mohammed, had confessed to the murder.\"He did not show any regret,\" he told Sky News.Silva said Cara had been murdered on Sunday night and her body parts were identified by a distinguishing tattoo. He added: \"The mother of the victim lives in London. She already knows this sad news. I don't know what she is planning to do.\" Burke had been decapitated and her arms and legs cut off, according to the Brazilian website Globo.com. The report said the suitcase was found on the banks of a river on the outskirts of the city - the capital of the state of Goias, in the central-western region of Brazil.A spokeswoman for the Goias state police said Burke and her boyfriend, named as Dioli Mohammed, came to Brazil on tourism visas around three months ago. He is being held as a suspect in her death, she said. Karine Neves, a spokeswoman for the British Embassy in Brasilia, said it was unclear what Burke was doing in Brazil or how long she had been in the country. Neves said a British vice-consul in Goiania was tracking the case and the police investigation.The Foreign Office said in a statement: \"We can confirm the death of a British national in Goiania in Brazil. \"The body was discovered early on Tuesday. Next of kin have been informed and we are providing consular assistance to the family.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "UK news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "British girl's remains found in suitcase in Brazil"},{"date": "2008-07-23T14:24:24Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The discovery of hundreds of young penguins washing up along the Brazilian shoreline over the past month has sparked a scientific mystery over what may have led the birds thousands of miles astray.The so-called Magellanic penguins began appearing in late June. Many of them dead or barely alive, they arrived on beaches all over south-eastern Brazil about 2,500 miles from their native southern Patagonia. Some of the penguins have since been spotted as far north as the warm-water beaches of the Brazilian state of Bahia, another 600 miles up the Atlantic coast.Although the penguins regularly migrate up to southern Brazil in search of food, the sheer quantity of penguins washing up farther away than normal has prompted worries that human activity may be throwing off the animals' migratory cycle.\"The penguin population is intimately linked to their supplies of food, so this suggests something is happening to the population of fish they eat,\" said biologist Marcelo Bertellotti at the National Patagonic Center in Puerto Madryn, Argentina.\"It appears the penguins are not finding fish where they normally do, and one reason could be that warming waters and climate change have impacted the fish population.\"No one has yet conducted a formal study of the phenomenon, but Brazilian scientists also blamed human activity for throwing off the penguins' migration.Some said a recent oil spill off the coast of Uruguay might have wiped out fish populations there, forcing the penguins to search farther north for food. Others suggested that melting ice in Antarctica had strengthened the northbound Malvinas ocean current this year, trapping younger, more vulnerable penguins.Whatever the reason, dozens of young penguins continued washing up along the Rio de Janeiro state coast this week, sending wildlife officials on a race to rescue the birds.They found some covered in petroleum, which had exposed them to hypothermia because the contamination eats away the natural body oils that keep penguins waterproof and warm.About half of the rescued penguins died by the time fire fighters transported them to the state's main rehabilitation centre, the zoo in the south-eastern Brazilian city of Niteroi, which has handled about 170 penguins over the past month.On Monday, fire fighters brought in a penguin that weighed less than half of its normal body weight and could only weakly flap its wings. It was one of more than a dozen lost penguins brought to the zoo that day.Zoo officials injected the bird with glucose and tube-fed it a solution of ground fish and water before placing it in a plastic tray amid nearly a hundred other gravely ill, young penguins. One of those penguins had died just moments before the most recent arrival, said veterinarian Thiago Muniz.\"We find lots of penguins here with catfish bones in them, which they normally don't eat,\" Muniz said. \"That suggests they're not finding their normal fish.\"Saltwater catfish have a lower fat content than the cold-water fish penguins normally consume, meaning the penguins were getting less thermal protection.Scientists say human development and global warming have already dramatically altered the frozen Patagonian landscape, with dozens of glaciers shrinking and rain patterns shifting. Nonetheless, hundreds of thousands of Magellanic penguins have survived and flourish in the region.That's under threat, however, as oil production and other economic activity invade the penguins' habitat.\"The penguins are dealing with fishing nets and oil spills and all kinds of problems,\" said Lauro Barcellos, director of an oceanography museum in the southern Brazilian city of Porto Alegre. \"That means penguins are looking each time farther for food, and more of them aren't making it.\"Bertellotti of the National Patagonic Center said, however, that the fishing industry in Patagonia has yet to seriously affect penguins because the birds normally eat anchovies, other small fish and squid near the ocean surface, as opposed to the deep-water fish sought by commercial fisheries.The penguins that recover in Niteroi will be flown to Barcellos' museum, where they'll be released into the ocean. And from there, biologists hope, the penguins will find their way back into the migratory cycle that so many of them strayed from this year.", "tags": ["Endangered habitats", "Environment", "Brazil", "Argentina", "Oil spills", "Climate change", "Wildlife", "Conservation", "Americas"], "title": "Penguins wash ashore in Brazil, prompting concerns about their habitat"},{"date": "2008-08-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is bracing for an imminent ruling on the future of one of its largest indigenous reservations - a decision that campaigners claim could spell disaster for indigenous communities across the country.The supreme court is expected to announce its verdict tomorrow in a case brought by a group of farmers, businessmen and politicians who claim the 2005 creation of the Raposa Serra do Sol reservation was \"unconstitutional\" and are demanding the right to remain.Located in the isolated Amazonian state of Roraima, the sprawling 1.7m-hectare (4.2m-acre) reserve was ordered by Brazil's president, Luiz In\u00e1cio da Silva, and is home to more than 18,000 aborigines from five different ethnic groups. Campaigners hailed the establishment of Raposa Serra do Sol as a historic move to protect the country's indigenous peoples from contact with the outside world.Nearly all non-aborigines require legal permission to enter indigenous lands. But several rice farmers have continued to operate inside the reserve. They describe the demarcation of Raposa Serra do Sol as an obstacle to economic development and point to the fact that there are numerous aborigines among their employees.Violence erupted earlier this year after government attempts to remove all non-indigenous people from the reserve. Bridges were burned and one group of aborigines was shot at, allegedly by gunmen hired by local farmers.Paulo Cesar Quartiero, a rice farmer who was arrested earlier this year for resisting eviction, has blamed a foreign conspiracy for the creation of the reserve. \"History will show who is selling Brazil and who is defending the nation,\" he said last week.Many senior members of the military see the reserve - located along the borders with Venezuela and Guyana - as a threat to national security. Last year, the Brazilian military told the Guardian it believed drug traffickers may be taking advantage of the state's absence and using aborigines to smuggle cocaine into Brazil.But campaigners say a supreme court ruling that reduced the size of the reserve or allowed non-aborigines to remain would encourage further invasions by miners, loggers and ranchers that could devastate the region's indigenous communities.Fiona Watson, a campaigner from Survival International, a NGO, said a decision tomorrow in favour of the farmers could destroy the indigenous \"way of life and set a catastrophic precedent for Indians all over the country\".During a visit to one village in the isolated reserve last year Pierlangela Nascimento da Cunha, a prominent indigenous campaigner, said the conflict over Raposa Serra do Sol was part of a wider offensive against indigenous rights. That offensive included a government bill that proposed opening up such reserves to mining companies in search of gold and diamonds.\"Brazil wants to be a big power. But this does not give it the right to steamroll over the rights of the Indians,\" said Cunha, who travelled to London in June to discuss the situation in Raposa Serra do Sol with British MPs and members of the Foreign Office.\"The development of our country cannot be achieved through the extinction of its indigenous people and by disrespecting their rights. The big economic interests see [aborigines] as an obstacle.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Environment", "Human rights", "World news", "Law", "Indigenous peoples", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Environment: Fate of Amazon tribes on trial as Brazil awaits reservation ruling"},{"date": "2008-09-16T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "My friend Ceri runs a Fairtrade nut company (chooseliberation.com): this is her divine recipe. Soup for 4200g Brazil nuts1litre vegetable or half-strength chicken stock2tbsp unsalted butter2tbsp plain flourBig pinch ground mace4tbsp double cream Small squeeze of lime100g torn-up oyster mushrooms2tbsp light olive oilA clove of garlic, choppedA handful of parsley, finely chopped4 small slices of bread (I used a baguette)Salt and pepperPreheat oven to 200\u00baC /400\u00baF.Bake the nuts for 10 minutes or so, wiggling halfway to toast evenly. When golden, take them out and tip them into a dry tea-towel. Wrap the towel round the nuts to make a tight ball, then scrunch to get the skins off.Warm the stock. Pulse the nuts in a processor until finely ground. Add a ladle of stock and pulse again till smooth. Melt the butter in a heavy-based saucepan and when it begins to foam, stir in the flour over a low heat for a couple of minutes. Then gradually ladle in two thirds of stock, using a whisk to ensure it stays smooth.Add the rest of the stock, including the nutty stock from the processor, the cream, mace and seasoning, then whisk until just below boiling. Simmer very gently for 10 minutes.Heat the oil in a frying pan, and fry the garlic for a minute, then toss in the mushrooms and season.Sieve the soup and add a little hot water, if it's too thick. Add a tiny bit of lime juice and check seasoning. Serve with toast, in warmed bowls, topped with the mushrooms (after a final toss with the parsley) and a few sliced Brazils for a nutty crunch. \u00b7 Allegra McEvedy is the co-founder of the fast-food chain Leon.", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Allegra McEvedy: The G2 weekly recipe - Silky Brazil-nut soup"},{"date": "2008-10-08T10:19:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Gangsters in Brazil have tried to prevent the circulation of newspapers carrying articles they believed hostile to election candidates they favoured. Rio de Janeiro's daily  Extra was the first to suffer after it ran a report about alleged irregularities committed by a member of the state government standing for election.Groups of men bought up 30,000 copies, but the paper republished the offending report the following day. Police are now investigating \"an electoral crime.\" Some 10,000 copies of the Foco Popular, based in Serop\u00e9dica, were also stolen by three men after it reproduced Extra's report. In the city of Porto Velho, northern Brazil, distribution of the Imprensa Popular newspaper was disrupted after eight men threatened the newspaper's circulation coordinator. They said they were acting to defend the mayor, a candidate for re-election.In an unrelated incident, the home of  Rubens Coutinho, editor of the Tudo Rond\u00f4nia and Jur\u00eddico Rond\u00f4nia websites, was bombed. He was unhurt. He believes the attack is related to his online papers' critical view of the authorities.(Source: Brazzil magazine)", "tags": ["Media", "Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Brazilian newspaper distribution under attack"},{"date": "2008-10-08T10:19:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Gangsters in Brazil have tried to prevent the circulation of newspapers carrying articles they believed hostile to election candidates they favoured. Rio de Janeiro's daily  Extra was the first to suffer after it ran a report about alleged irregularities committed by a member of the state government standing for election.Groups of men bought up 30,000 copies, but the paper republished the offending report the following day. Police are now investigating \"an electoral crime.\" Some 10,000 copies of the Foco Popular, based in Serop\u00e9dica, were also stolen by three men after it reproduced Extra's report. In the city of Porto Velho, northern Brazil, distribution of the Imprensa Popular newspaper was disrupted after eight men threatened the newspaper's circulation coordinator. They said they were acting to defend the mayor, a candidate for re-election.In an unrelated incident, the home of  Rubens Coutinho, editor of the Tudo Rond\u00f4nia and Jur\u00eddico Rond\u00f4nia websites, was bombed. He was unhurt. He believes the attack is related to his online papers' critical view of the authorities.(Source: Brazzil magazine)", "tags": ["Media", "Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Brazilian newspaper distribution under attack"},{"date": "2008-12-02T12:52:58Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian government yesterday announced a 10-year plan to slash rainforest destruction by 70% days after new figures showed Amazon deforestation was again on the rise.Officials said the targets, which are part of Brazil's Climate Change Plan, were the first time the Brazilian government had set specific goals for deforestation reduction.The plan outlines a 40% reduction of deforestation until 2009, a 30% reduction between 2010 and 2013 and a further 30% cut between 2014 and 2017. \"The target is that in 2017 deforestation will be [reduced to] 5,000 sq km,\" environment minister Carlos Minc told reporters in Brazil's capital, Brasilia. He said the slowdown in deforestation would mean a 72% reduction in climate changing carbon emissions. That, he added, \"is an even more daring target than in England which aims for an 80% reduction but [not] until 2050.\"The blueprint for deforestation reduction makes it clear that hitting the targets depends on Brazil's ability to raise funds for its fight against the loggers. In August 2008 Brazil's government created the Amazon Fund, a mechanism for foreign governments to help pay for the protection of the world's largest tropical rainforest and combat global warming. In September Norway's government became the first to contribute to the fund, pledging $1bn (\u00a3668m). Mr Minc said he hoped for donations of $1bn a year, in order to bankroll Brazil's campaign against deforestation. The plans follow the release of government figures on Friday showing that deforestation rose 3.8% in the year leading up to July 2008 \u2013 the first annual increase in three years. Satellite images captured by Brazil's Space Research Institute, Inpe, showed that 11,968 sq km of forest were cleared until July this year, up from 11,532 sq km the previous year. Mr Minc said the rise would have been even greater had it not been for an anti-deforestation drive launched at the start of 2008. Deforestation levels had fallen in the 36 regions that suffered most deforestation in 2007 as a result of the crackdown, he said.Known as the Arc of Fire, the crackdown has triggered violent uprisings in several Amazon towns where the economies, dependent on logging, have been badly hit. Speaking to the Guardian earlier this year Roberto Mangabeira Unger, Brazil's minister for strategic affairs and the coordinator of its Amazon development plan, said his country needed to embark on a \"revolutionary\" project for the Amazon. \"We cannot preserve the Amazon without a project of development otherwise we are just playing with words,\" he said. Without offering economic alternatives to logging it would be impossible to effectively combat illegal logging, he said. \"I have heard from a few foreigners the idea that the Brazilian state should actually transport the 27 million Brazilians out of the Amazon but our country is not governed by Stalin and we will not do that,\" he said.", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Environment", "Brazil", "Endangered habitats", "Carbon capture and storage (CCS)", "Deforestation", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil announces plan to slash rainforest destruction"},{"date": "2008-10-08T10:19:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Gangsters in Brazil have tried to prevent the circulation of newspapers carrying articles they believed hostile to election candidates they favoured. Rio de Janeiro's daily  Extra was the first to suffer after it ran a report about alleged irregularities committed by a member of the state government standing for election.Groups of men bought up 30,000 copies, but the paper republished the offending report the following day. Police are now investigating \"an electoral crime.\" Some 10,000 copies of the Foco Popular, based in Serop\u00e9dica, were also stolen by three men after it reproduced Extra's report. In the city of Porto Velho, northern Brazil, distribution of the Imprensa Popular newspaper was disrupted after eight men threatened the newspaper's circulation coordinator. They said they were acting to defend the mayor, a candidate for re-election.In an unrelated incident, the home of  Rubens Coutinho, editor of the Tudo Rond\u00f4nia and Jur\u00eddico Rond\u00f4nia websites, was bombed. He was unhurt. He believes the attack is related to his online papers' critical view of the authorities.(Source: Brazzil magazine)", "tags": ["Media", "Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Brazilian newspaper distribution under attack"},{"date": "2008-12-02T12:52:58Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian government yesterday announced a 10-year plan to slash rainforest destruction by 70% days after new figures showed Amazon deforestation was again on the rise.Officials said the targets, which are part of Brazil's Climate Change Plan, were the first time the Brazilian government had set specific goals for deforestation reduction.The plan outlines a 40% reduction of deforestation until 2009, a 30% reduction between 2010 and 2013 and a further 30% cut between 2014 and 2017. \"The target is that in 2017 deforestation will be [reduced to] 5,000 sq km,\" environment minister Carlos Minc told reporters in Brazil's capital, Brasilia. He said the slowdown in deforestation would mean a 72% reduction in climate changing carbon emissions. That, he added, \"is an even more daring target than in England which aims for an 80% reduction but [not] until 2050.\"The blueprint for deforestation reduction makes it clear that hitting the targets depends on Brazil's ability to raise funds for its fight against the loggers. In August 2008 Brazil's government created the Amazon Fund, a mechanism for foreign governments to help pay for the protection of the world's largest tropical rainforest and combat global warming. In September Norway's government became the first to contribute to the fund, pledging $1bn (\u00a3668m). Mr Minc said he hoped for donations of $1bn a year, in order to bankroll Brazil's campaign against deforestation. The plans follow the release of government figures on Friday showing that deforestation rose 3.8% in the year leading up to July 2008 \u2013 the first annual increase in three years. Satellite images captured by Brazil's Space Research Institute, Inpe, showed that 11,968 sq km of forest were cleared until July this year, up from 11,532 sq km the previous year. Mr Minc said the rise would have been even greater had it not been for an anti-deforestation drive launched at the start of 2008. Deforestation levels had fallen in the 36 regions that suffered most deforestation in 2007 as a result of the crackdown, he said.Known as the Arc of Fire, the crackdown has triggered violent uprisings in several Amazon towns where the economies, dependent on logging, have been badly hit. Speaking to the Guardian earlier this year Roberto Mangabeira Unger, Brazil's minister for strategic affairs and the coordinator of its Amazon development plan, said his country needed to embark on a \"revolutionary\" project for the Amazon. \"We cannot preserve the Amazon without a project of development otherwise we are just playing with words,\" he said. Without offering economic alternatives to logging it would be impossible to effectively combat illegal logging, he said. \"I have heard from a few foreigners the idea that the Brazilian state should actually transport the 27 million Brazilians out of the Amazon but our country is not governed by Stalin and we will not do that,\" he said.", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Environment", "Brazil", "Endangered habitats", "Carbon capture and storage (CCS)", "Deforestation", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil announces plan to slash rainforest destruction"},{"date": "2008-12-03T00:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil plans to boost spending and programmes to significantly slow the rate of destruction of the Amazon rainforest by 2017, aiming to reduce global warming by slashing the amount of carbon dioxide emitted when trees are burned.The plan, announced by President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva on Monday, is the first time Brazil has set specific goals regarding deforestation reduction.Environment minister Carlos Minc said the plan would slow the rate of destruction by 72% when compared with the 7,330 square miles lost on average each year between 1996 and 2005.The new proposal would boost federal patrols of forested areas, replant forest, and finance sustainable development projects to give locals alternative work in areas where illegal logging dominates the economy.\"We need to offer help them with one hand, but with the other we have to tell them there will be punishment if they don't pay attention to environmental preservation,\" Lula said, without describing those penalties. He did not say how much the plan would cost.Deforestation - both the burning and rotting of Amazon wood - releases an estimated 400 million tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere every year, making Brazil at least the sixth biggest emitter of the gas in the world.The country slowed deforestation by 60% between 2005 and 2007, but officials said last week that destruction had accelerated slightly in the past year, as rising soy and beef prices prompt farmers to carve more fields and pastures from the rainforest.", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Brazil", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Conservation", "Environment", "World news", "Deforestation", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil sets target to slow Amazon deforestation"},{"date": "2008-10-08T10:19:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Gangsters in Brazil have tried to prevent the circulation of newspapers carrying articles they believed hostile to election candidates they favoured. Rio de Janeiro's daily  Extra was the first to suffer after it ran a report about alleged irregularities committed by a member of the state government standing for election.Groups of men bought up 30,000 copies, but the paper republished the offending report the following day. Police are now investigating \"an electoral crime.\" Some 10,000 copies of the Foco Popular, based in Serop\u00e9dica, were also stolen by three men after it reproduced Extra's report. In the city of Porto Velho, northern Brazil, distribution of the Imprensa Popular newspaper was disrupted after eight men threatened the newspaper's circulation coordinator. They said they were acting to defend the mayor, a candidate for re-election.In an unrelated incident, the home of  Rubens Coutinho, editor of the Tudo Rond\u00f4nia and Jur\u00eddico Rond\u00f4nia websites, was bombed. He was unhurt. He believes the attack is related to his online papers' critical view of the authorities.(Source: Brazzil magazine)", "tags": ["Media", "Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Brazilian newspaper distribution under attack"},{"date": "2008-12-02T12:52:58Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian government yesterday announced a 10-year plan to slash rainforest destruction by 70% days after new figures showed Amazon deforestation was again on the rise.Officials said the targets, which are part of Brazil's Climate Change Plan, were the first time the Brazilian government had set specific goals for deforestation reduction.The plan outlines a 40% reduction of deforestation until 2009, a 30% reduction between 2010 and 2013 and a further 30% cut between 2014 and 2017. \"The target is that in 2017 deforestation will be [reduced to] 5,000 sq km,\" environment minister Carlos Minc told reporters in Brazil's capital, Brasilia. He said the slowdown in deforestation would mean a 72% reduction in climate changing carbon emissions. That, he added, \"is an even more daring target than in England which aims for an 80% reduction but [not] until 2050.\"The blueprint for deforestation reduction makes it clear that hitting the targets depends on Brazil's ability to raise funds for its fight against the loggers. In August 2008 Brazil's government created the Amazon Fund, a mechanism for foreign governments to help pay for the protection of the world's largest tropical rainforest and combat global warming. In September Norway's government became the first to contribute to the fund, pledging $1bn (\u00a3668m). Mr Minc said he hoped for donations of $1bn a year, in order to bankroll Brazil's campaign against deforestation. The plans follow the release of government figures on Friday showing that deforestation rose 3.8% in the year leading up to July 2008 \u2013 the first annual increase in three years. Satellite images captured by Brazil's Space Research Institute, Inpe, showed that 11,968 sq km of forest were cleared until July this year, up from 11,532 sq km the previous year. Mr Minc said the rise would have been even greater had it not been for an anti-deforestation drive launched at the start of 2008. Deforestation levels had fallen in the 36 regions that suffered most deforestation in 2007 as a result of the crackdown, he said.Known as the Arc of Fire, the crackdown has triggered violent uprisings in several Amazon towns where the economies, dependent on logging, have been badly hit. Speaking to the Guardian earlier this year Roberto Mangabeira Unger, Brazil's minister for strategic affairs and the coordinator of its Amazon development plan, said his country needed to embark on a \"revolutionary\" project for the Amazon. \"We cannot preserve the Amazon without a project of development otherwise we are just playing with words,\" he said. Without offering economic alternatives to logging it would be impossible to effectively combat illegal logging, he said. \"I have heard from a few foreigners the idea that the Brazilian state should actually transport the 27 million Brazilians out of the Amazon but our country is not governed by Stalin and we will not do that,\" he said.", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Environment", "Brazil", "Endangered habitats", "Carbon capture and storage (CCS)", "Deforestation", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil announces plan to slash rainforest destruction"},{"date": "2008-12-03T00:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil plans to boost spending and programmes to significantly slow the rate of destruction of the Amazon rainforest by 2017, aiming to reduce global warming by slashing the amount of carbon dioxide emitted when trees are burned.The plan, announced by President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva on Monday, is the first time Brazil has set specific goals regarding deforestation reduction.Environment minister Carlos Minc said the plan would slow the rate of destruction by 72% when compared with the 7,330 square miles lost on average each year between 1996 and 2005.The new proposal would boost federal patrols of forested areas, replant forest, and finance sustainable development projects to give locals alternative work in areas where illegal logging dominates the economy.\"We need to offer help them with one hand, but with the other we have to tell them there will be punishment if they don't pay attention to environmental preservation,\" Lula said, without describing those penalties. He did not say how much the plan would cost.Deforestation - both the burning and rotting of Amazon wood - releases an estimated 400 million tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere every year, making Brazil at least the sixth biggest emitter of the gas in the world.The country slowed deforestation by 60% between 2005 and 2007, but officials said last week that destruction had accelerated slightly in the past year, as rising soy and beef prices prompt farmers to carve more fields and pastures from the rainforest.", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Brazil", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Conservation", "Environment", "World news", "Deforestation", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil sets target to slow Amazon deforestation"},{"date": "2008-11-20T00:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian government has said it will employ heat-seeking radar in a last-ditch attempt to save the country's remaining groups of isolated Indians. The body-heat sensors will be mounted on a Brazilian air force jet normally used to monitor rainforest destruction and will be used to locate an estimated 39 groups of isolated indigenous people, hidden deep in the Amazon rainforest.The authorities hope the system will help them to locate groups of isolated Indians to protect them from invaders such as loggers, goldminers and ranchers.Antenor Vaz, the coordinator for isolated tribes at Brazil's National Indian Foundation, said the system would allow authorities to locate tribes without disturbing their way of life.\"We have been using planes more and more, not just to monitor [isolated tribes] but also to find new references,\" he said. But even the use of small planes brought disruption to the tribes because they flew at low altitude, he said.Brazil's isolated Indians hit the headlines in May when aerial photographs of a remote tribe near the border with Peru were released. Several tribesmen could be seen firing arrows at the plane.Vaz said the sensors mounted on planes flying at high altitude meant the tribes would not even know they were being monitored.By locating Brazil's last isolated tribes, campaigners hope the process of land demarcation can be speeded up, helping to guarantee the protection of their ancestral lands.Campaigners say the Amazon may be home to the largest number of uncontacted tribes in the world, and the authorities have long grappled with the dilemma of how best to treat indigenous groups who have had little or no contact with outsiders.For hundreds of years colonisers and explorers have trekked through the jungle, coming into contact with isolated tribes, often with catastrophic results. There are thought to have been around 6 million indigenous people when the Portuguese arrived in Brazil in 1500. Today there are fewer than 300,000. Violence and western diseases such as flu have devastated many indigenous communities.In the 1980s thousands of gold prospectors poured into areas inhabited by Yanomami Indians, in northern Brazil, triggering genocide, human rights groups claimed. Some sources say up to 20% of the Yanomami people died in seven years.Since the late 1980s government policy towards uncontacted tribes has shifted to a \"stay away\" approach. A handful of sertanistas, or explorers, work in the rainforest trying to locate tribes without coming into direct contact with them.Fiona Watson, Brazil campaigner for Survival International, an indigenous rights group, said there could be as many as 20 tribes living in the Brazilian Amazon about which the outside world knew nothing. \"The idea of the remote sensors means you are not going to put any lives in danger [by making contact],\" she said.She said contact between isolated tribes and government employees had proved disastrous in the past, with 50% of some tribes being wiped out by disease in the first year after contact.Vaz said the radar's first mission would be to confirm the existence of isolated tribes in the Amazon state of Mato Grosso, a region that loggers, ranchers and soy farmers have turned into ground zero for rainforest destruction. \"The priority will be Mato Grosso where the process of devastation is happening quickest,\" he said.He said members of the military and representatives of the National Indian Foundation would meet soon to plan \"when and where\" the flyovers would take place.In an interview with the Brazilian newspaper Folha de Sao Paulo, the president of Brazil's National Indian Foundation, Marcio Meira, admitted that time was running out for isolated Indians in the region. According to newspaper reports there are only two male members left of one of the region's tribes, the Piripkura.\"The situation there is an emergency,\" Meira said.Watson said several of the region's tribes were \"facing genocide unless the Brazilian authorites take immediate action to demarcate and protect their land\".", "tags": ["Brazil", "Trees and forests", "Endangered habitats", "Environment", "World news", "Indigenous peoples", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil uses radar to protect isolated tribes"},{"date": "2008-10-08T10:19:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Gangsters in Brazil have tried to prevent the circulation of newspapers carrying articles they believed hostile to election candidates they favoured. Rio de Janeiro's daily  Extra was the first to suffer after it ran a report about alleged irregularities committed by a member of the state government standing for election.Groups of men bought up 30,000 copies, but the paper republished the offending report the following day. Police are now investigating \"an electoral crime.\" Some 10,000 copies of the Foco Popular, based in Serop\u00e9dica, were also stolen by three men after it reproduced Extra's report. In the city of Porto Velho, northern Brazil, distribution of the Imprensa Popular newspaper was disrupted after eight men threatened the newspaper's circulation coordinator. They said they were acting to defend the mayor, a candidate for re-election.In an unrelated incident, the home of  Rubens Coutinho, editor of the Tudo Rond\u00f4nia and Jur\u00eddico Rond\u00f4nia websites, was bombed. He was unhurt. He believes the attack is related to his online papers' critical view of the authorities.(Source: Brazzil magazine)", "tags": ["Media", "Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Brazilian newspaper distribution under attack"},{"date": "2008-12-02T12:52:58Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian government yesterday announced a 10-year plan to slash rainforest destruction by 70% days after new figures showed Amazon deforestation was again on the rise.Officials said the targets, which are part of Brazil's Climate Change Plan, were the first time the Brazilian government had set specific goals for deforestation reduction.The plan outlines a 40% reduction of deforestation until 2009, a 30% reduction between 2010 and 2013 and a further 30% cut between 2014 and 2017. \"The target is that in 2017 deforestation will be [reduced to] 5,000 sq km,\" environment minister Carlos Minc told reporters in Brazil's capital, Brasilia. He said the slowdown in deforestation would mean a 72% reduction in climate changing carbon emissions. That, he added, \"is an even more daring target than in England which aims for an 80% reduction but [not] until 2050.\"The blueprint for deforestation reduction makes it clear that hitting the targets depends on Brazil's ability to raise funds for its fight against the loggers. In August 2008 Brazil's government created the Amazon Fund, a mechanism for foreign governments to help pay for the protection of the world's largest tropical rainforest and combat global warming. In September Norway's government became the first to contribute to the fund, pledging $1bn (\u00a3668m). Mr Minc said he hoped for donations of $1bn a year, in order to bankroll Brazil's campaign against deforestation. The plans follow the release of government figures on Friday showing that deforestation rose 3.8% in the year leading up to July 2008 \u2013 the first annual increase in three years. Satellite images captured by Brazil's Space Research Institute, Inpe, showed that 11,968 sq km of forest were cleared until July this year, up from 11,532 sq km the previous year. Mr Minc said the rise would have been even greater had it not been for an anti-deforestation drive launched at the start of 2008. Deforestation levels had fallen in the 36 regions that suffered most deforestation in 2007 as a result of the crackdown, he said.Known as the Arc of Fire, the crackdown has triggered violent uprisings in several Amazon towns where the economies, dependent on logging, have been badly hit. Speaking to the Guardian earlier this year Roberto Mangabeira Unger, Brazil's minister for strategic affairs and the coordinator of its Amazon development plan, said his country needed to embark on a \"revolutionary\" project for the Amazon. \"We cannot preserve the Amazon without a project of development otherwise we are just playing with words,\" he said. Without offering economic alternatives to logging it would be impossible to effectively combat illegal logging, he said. \"I have heard from a few foreigners the idea that the Brazilian state should actually transport the 27 million Brazilians out of the Amazon but our country is not governed by Stalin and we will not do that,\" he said.", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Environment", "Brazil", "Endangered habitats", "Carbon capture and storage (CCS)", "Deforestation", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil announces plan to slash rainforest destruction"},{"date": "2008-12-03T00:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil plans to boost spending and programmes to significantly slow the rate of destruction of the Amazon rainforest by 2017, aiming to reduce global warming by slashing the amount of carbon dioxide emitted when trees are burned.The plan, announced by President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva on Monday, is the first time Brazil has set specific goals regarding deforestation reduction.Environment minister Carlos Minc said the plan would slow the rate of destruction by 72% when compared with the 7,330 square miles lost on average each year between 1996 and 2005.The new proposal would boost federal patrols of forested areas, replant forest, and finance sustainable development projects to give locals alternative work in areas where illegal logging dominates the economy.\"We need to offer help them with one hand, but with the other we have to tell them there will be punishment if they don't pay attention to environmental preservation,\" Lula said, without describing those penalties. He did not say how much the plan would cost.Deforestation - both the burning and rotting of Amazon wood - releases an estimated 400 million tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere every year, making Brazil at least the sixth biggest emitter of the gas in the world.The country slowed deforestation by 60% between 2005 and 2007, but officials said last week that destruction had accelerated slightly in the past year, as rising soy and beef prices prompt farmers to carve more fields and pastures from the rainforest.", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Brazil", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Conservation", "Environment", "World news", "Deforestation", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil sets target to slow Amazon deforestation"},{"date": "2008-11-20T00:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian government has said it will employ heat-seeking radar in a last-ditch attempt to save the country's remaining groups of isolated Indians. The body-heat sensors will be mounted on a Brazilian air force jet normally used to monitor rainforest destruction and will be used to locate an estimated 39 groups of isolated indigenous people, hidden deep in the Amazon rainforest.The authorities hope the system will help them to locate groups of isolated Indians to protect them from invaders such as loggers, goldminers and ranchers.Antenor Vaz, the coordinator for isolated tribes at Brazil's National Indian Foundation, said the system would allow authorities to locate tribes without disturbing their way of life.\"We have been using planes more and more, not just to monitor [isolated tribes] but also to find new references,\" he said. But even the use of small planes brought disruption to the tribes because they flew at low altitude, he said.Brazil's isolated Indians hit the headlines in May when aerial photographs of a remote tribe near the border with Peru were released. Several tribesmen could be seen firing arrows at the plane.Vaz said the sensors mounted on planes flying at high altitude meant the tribes would not even know they were being monitored.By locating Brazil's last isolated tribes, campaigners hope the process of land demarcation can be speeded up, helping to guarantee the protection of their ancestral lands.Campaigners say the Amazon may be home to the largest number of uncontacted tribes in the world, and the authorities have long grappled with the dilemma of how best to treat indigenous groups who have had little or no contact with outsiders.For hundreds of years colonisers and explorers have trekked through the jungle, coming into contact with isolated tribes, often with catastrophic results. There are thought to have been around 6 million indigenous people when the Portuguese arrived in Brazil in 1500. Today there are fewer than 300,000. Violence and western diseases such as flu have devastated many indigenous communities.In the 1980s thousands of gold prospectors poured into areas inhabited by Yanomami Indians, in northern Brazil, triggering genocide, human rights groups claimed. Some sources say up to 20% of the Yanomami people died in seven years.Since the late 1980s government policy towards uncontacted tribes has shifted to a \"stay away\" approach. A handful of sertanistas, or explorers, work in the rainforest trying to locate tribes without coming into direct contact with them.Fiona Watson, Brazil campaigner for Survival International, an indigenous rights group, said there could be as many as 20 tribes living in the Brazilian Amazon about which the outside world knew nothing. \"The idea of the remote sensors means you are not going to put any lives in danger [by making contact],\" she said.She said contact between isolated tribes and government employees had proved disastrous in the past, with 50% of some tribes being wiped out by disease in the first year after contact.Vaz said the radar's first mission would be to confirm the existence of isolated tribes in the Amazon state of Mato Grosso, a region that loggers, ranchers and soy farmers have turned into ground zero for rainforest destruction. \"The priority will be Mato Grosso where the process of devastation is happening quickest,\" he said.He said members of the military and representatives of the National Indian Foundation would meet soon to plan \"when and where\" the flyovers would take place.In an interview with the Brazilian newspaper Folha de Sao Paulo, the president of Brazil's National Indian Foundation, Marcio Meira, admitted that time was running out for isolated Indians in the region. According to newspaper reports there are only two male members left of one of the region's tribes, the Piripkura.\"The situation there is an emergency,\" Meira said.Watson said several of the region's tribes were \"facing genocide unless the Brazilian authorites take immediate action to demarcate and protect their land\".", "tags": ["Brazil", "Trees and forests", "Endangered habitats", "Environment", "World news", "Indigenous peoples", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil uses radar to protect isolated tribes"},{"date": "2008-10-03T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Marking 120 years since the abolition of slavery in Brazil, the Barbican focuses on the country's best Afro-Brazilian film-makers, whose collaborations with leading musicians and artists give modern Brazilian cinema yet more layers in which to tell its many tales of slavery's legacy. The hardships of life in the favelas are to the fore, with opening film Mar\u00e9, Our Love Story - a Brazilian answer to West Side Story - and outstanding recent releases Tropa De Elite and Linha De Passe. The programme also includes witty teen comedy My Uncle Killed A Guy, Xica da Silva, the true story of one slave's rise to power, Madame Sata, the story of a legendary drag queen/tough guy, and documentary Abolition, on the legacy of slavery in today's Brazil.", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "Cinema Of Brazil: Afro-Brazilian Perspectives, London"},{"date": "2008-10-08T10:19:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Gangsters in Brazil have tried to prevent the circulation of newspapers carrying articles they believed hostile to election candidates they favoured. Rio de Janeiro's daily  Extra was the first to suffer after it ran a report about alleged irregularities committed by a member of the state government standing for election.Groups of men bought up 30,000 copies, but the paper republished the offending report the following day. Police are now investigating \"an electoral crime.\" Some 10,000 copies of the Foco Popular, based in Serop\u00e9dica, were also stolen by three men after it reproduced Extra's report. In the city of Porto Velho, northern Brazil, distribution of the Imprensa Popular newspaper was disrupted after eight men threatened the newspaper's circulation coordinator. They said they were acting to defend the mayor, a candidate for re-election.In an unrelated incident, the home of  Rubens Coutinho, editor of the Tudo Rond\u00f4nia and Jur\u00eddico Rond\u00f4nia websites, was bombed. He was unhurt. He believes the attack is related to his online papers' critical view of the authorities.(Source: Brazzil magazine)", "tags": ["Media", "Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Brazilian newspaper distribution under attack"},{"date": "2008-12-02T12:52:58Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian government yesterday announced a 10-year plan to slash rainforest destruction by 70% days after new figures showed Amazon deforestation was again on the rise.Officials said the targets, which are part of Brazil's Climate Change Plan, were the first time the Brazilian government had set specific goals for deforestation reduction.The plan outlines a 40% reduction of deforestation until 2009, a 30% reduction between 2010 and 2013 and a further 30% cut between 2014 and 2017. \"The target is that in 2017 deforestation will be [reduced to] 5,000 sq km,\" environment minister Carlos Minc told reporters in Brazil's capital, Brasilia. He said the slowdown in deforestation would mean a 72% reduction in climate changing carbon emissions. That, he added, \"is an even more daring target than in England which aims for an 80% reduction but [not] until 2050.\"The blueprint for deforestation reduction makes it clear that hitting the targets depends on Brazil's ability to raise funds for its fight against the loggers. In August 2008 Brazil's government created the Amazon Fund, a mechanism for foreign governments to help pay for the protection of the world's largest tropical rainforest and combat global warming. In September Norway's government became the first to contribute to the fund, pledging $1bn (\u00a3668m). Mr Minc said he hoped for donations of $1bn a year, in order to bankroll Brazil's campaign against deforestation. The plans follow the release of government figures on Friday showing that deforestation rose 3.8% in the year leading up to July 2008 \u2013 the first annual increase in three years. Satellite images captured by Brazil's Space Research Institute, Inpe, showed that 11,968 sq km of forest were cleared until July this year, up from 11,532 sq km the previous year. Mr Minc said the rise would have been even greater had it not been for an anti-deforestation drive launched at the start of 2008. Deforestation levels had fallen in the 36 regions that suffered most deforestation in 2007 as a result of the crackdown, he said.Known as the Arc of Fire, the crackdown has triggered violent uprisings in several Amazon towns where the economies, dependent on logging, have been badly hit. Speaking to the Guardian earlier this year Roberto Mangabeira Unger, Brazil's minister for strategic affairs and the coordinator of its Amazon development plan, said his country needed to embark on a \"revolutionary\" project for the Amazon. \"We cannot preserve the Amazon without a project of development otherwise we are just playing with words,\" he said. Without offering economic alternatives to logging it would be impossible to effectively combat illegal logging, he said. \"I have heard from a few foreigners the idea that the Brazilian state should actually transport the 27 million Brazilians out of the Amazon but our country is not governed by Stalin and we will not do that,\" he said.", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Environment", "Brazil", "Endangered habitats", "Carbon capture and storage (CCS)", "Deforestation", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil announces plan to slash rainforest destruction"},{"date": "2008-12-03T00:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil plans to boost spending and programmes to significantly slow the rate of destruction of the Amazon rainforest by 2017, aiming to reduce global warming by slashing the amount of carbon dioxide emitted when trees are burned.The plan, announced by President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva on Monday, is the first time Brazil has set specific goals regarding deforestation reduction.Environment minister Carlos Minc said the plan would slow the rate of destruction by 72% when compared with the 7,330 square miles lost on average each year between 1996 and 2005.The new proposal would boost federal patrols of forested areas, replant forest, and finance sustainable development projects to give locals alternative work in areas where illegal logging dominates the economy.\"We need to offer help them with one hand, but with the other we have to tell them there will be punishment if they don't pay attention to environmental preservation,\" Lula said, without describing those penalties. He did not say how much the plan would cost.Deforestation - both the burning and rotting of Amazon wood - releases an estimated 400 million tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere every year, making Brazil at least the sixth biggest emitter of the gas in the world.The country slowed deforestation by 60% between 2005 and 2007, but officials said last week that destruction had accelerated slightly in the past year, as rising soy and beef prices prompt farmers to carve more fields and pastures from the rainforest.", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Brazil", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Conservation", "Environment", "World news", "Deforestation", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil sets target to slow Amazon deforestation"},{"date": "2008-11-20T00:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian government has said it will employ heat-seeking radar in a last-ditch attempt to save the country's remaining groups of isolated Indians. The body-heat sensors will be mounted on a Brazilian air force jet normally used to monitor rainforest destruction and will be used to locate an estimated 39 groups of isolated indigenous people, hidden deep in the Amazon rainforest.The authorities hope the system will help them to locate groups of isolated Indians to protect them from invaders such as loggers, goldminers and ranchers.Antenor Vaz, the coordinator for isolated tribes at Brazil's National Indian Foundation, said the system would allow authorities to locate tribes without disturbing their way of life.\"We have been using planes more and more, not just to monitor [isolated tribes] but also to find new references,\" he said. But even the use of small planes brought disruption to the tribes because they flew at low altitude, he said.Brazil's isolated Indians hit the headlines in May when aerial photographs of a remote tribe near the border with Peru were released. Several tribesmen could be seen firing arrows at the plane.Vaz said the sensors mounted on planes flying at high altitude meant the tribes would not even know they were being monitored.By locating Brazil's last isolated tribes, campaigners hope the process of land demarcation can be speeded up, helping to guarantee the protection of their ancestral lands.Campaigners say the Amazon may be home to the largest number of uncontacted tribes in the world, and the authorities have long grappled with the dilemma of how best to treat indigenous groups who have had little or no contact with outsiders.For hundreds of years colonisers and explorers have trekked through the jungle, coming into contact with isolated tribes, often with catastrophic results. There are thought to have been around 6 million indigenous people when the Portuguese arrived in Brazil in 1500. Today there are fewer than 300,000. Violence and western diseases such as flu have devastated many indigenous communities.In the 1980s thousands of gold prospectors poured into areas inhabited by Yanomami Indians, in northern Brazil, triggering genocide, human rights groups claimed. Some sources say up to 20% of the Yanomami people died in seven years.Since the late 1980s government policy towards uncontacted tribes has shifted to a \"stay away\" approach. A handful of sertanistas, or explorers, work in the rainforest trying to locate tribes without coming into direct contact with them.Fiona Watson, Brazil campaigner for Survival International, an indigenous rights group, said there could be as many as 20 tribes living in the Brazilian Amazon about which the outside world knew nothing. \"The idea of the remote sensors means you are not going to put any lives in danger [by making contact],\" she said.She said contact between isolated tribes and government employees had proved disastrous in the past, with 50% of some tribes being wiped out by disease in the first year after contact.Vaz said the radar's first mission would be to confirm the existence of isolated tribes in the Amazon state of Mato Grosso, a region that loggers, ranchers and soy farmers have turned into ground zero for rainforest destruction. \"The priority will be Mato Grosso where the process of devastation is happening quickest,\" he said.He said members of the military and representatives of the National Indian Foundation would meet soon to plan \"when and where\" the flyovers would take place.In an interview with the Brazilian newspaper Folha de Sao Paulo, the president of Brazil's National Indian Foundation, Marcio Meira, admitted that time was running out for isolated Indians in the region. According to newspaper reports there are only two male members left of one of the region's tribes, the Piripkura.\"The situation there is an emergency,\" Meira said.Watson said several of the region's tribes were \"facing genocide unless the Brazilian authorites take immediate action to demarcate and protect their land\".", "tags": ["Brazil", "Trees and forests", "Endangered habitats", "Environment", "World news", "Indigenous peoples", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil uses radar to protect isolated tribes"},{"date": "2008-10-03T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Marking 120 years since the abolition of slavery in Brazil, the Barbican focuses on the country's best Afro-Brazilian film-makers, whose collaborations with leading musicians and artists give modern Brazilian cinema yet more layers in which to tell its many tales of slavery's legacy. The hardships of life in the favelas are to the fore, with opening film Mar\u00e9, Our Love Story - a Brazilian answer to West Side Story - and outstanding recent releases Tropa De Elite and Linha De Passe. The programme also includes witty teen comedy My Uncle Killed A Guy, Xica da Silva, the true story of one slave's rise to power, Madame Sata, the story of a legendary drag queen/tough guy, and documentary Abolition, on the legacy of slavery in today's Brazil.", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "Cinema Of Brazil: Afro-Brazilian Perspectives, London"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Roy Hodgson does not fear change. Transformations are a speciality for this 61-year-old. In Switzerland and Scandinavia he is celebrated for cultivating unprecedented success, and it was in the home of a Brazilian World Cup winner that, this time last year, he resolved to return to his native London to attempt his most audacious metamorphosis. Should Fulham stretch their unbeaten run to nine against Chelsea today, it will be a further sign that Hodgson is making a success of his task.While enjoying the hospitality of his friend Carlos Alberto Parreira last Christmas, Hodgson heard Fulham's rescue plea. He was not desperate for a job, the Finnish FA having offered him a contract to continue his impressive work there with the national team. The Republic of Ireland had also expressed an interest, and one of his former clubs, Internazionale, had invited him back to Milan to become their director of football. What was to be gained by cutting short his holiday in Brazil and jumping into the deep end of the Premier League? More money, yes, but you suspect Hodgson was motivated by something more: redemption.Like Parreira and other friends such as Ars\u00e8ne Wenger, Hodgson was never much of a player. His high point was playing for Crystal Palace reserves. On the sidelines, however, he became a top-class performer. In a coaching career that began in 1976 when he inspired Halmstads BK to their first Swedish title, he enjoyed success and popularity in Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland, Switzerland, Italy and the United Arab Emirates. The only place where success eluded him was his homeland. At Bristol City in the 1980s he was foiled by the club's bankruptcy, and in 1998 he was sacked by Blackburn three months into his second season. Fulham tempted him with an opportunity to rectify a wrong that rankled.From his predecessor at Craven Cottage, Hodgson inherited a side who were heading for the Championship. Lawrie Sanchez had bought badly and imposed a brand of football that frustrated his few classy players. The Cottagers sunk down the league and were anchored one place above the doomed Derby County. The mood was dark, the outlook gloomy. A perfect contrast to the present.\"My first match in charge was against Chelsea, coincidentally, and it was the first time I had seen many of my players,\" Hodgson says. \"It took me two months to really get to know the squad and it wasn't until March that we had a team I was happy with.\" No esoteric remedy explains Fulham's rehabilitation from basement-dwellers to European hopefuls. Hodgson has simply gone back to basics, recruiting good athletes and getting them to play tidy, tough football. The club's defensive record attests to the touch of a diligent technician whose instructions are being applied with conviction. This time last year Fulham had the third worst defence in the league - now only today's visitors and Manchester United have conceded fewer goals.Paul Konchesky is the only member of today's probable back five who featured in Hodgson's first match. Aaron Hughes was at the club but injured; the others are Hodgson recruits. Gigantic Norwegian centre-back Brede Hangeland is the most lauded of these. The \u00a32.5m signing from FC Copenhagen immediately cured the side's aerial vulnerability after arriving in January. Until then Fulham had conceded more goals from headers than any other team, a fact that underlined the folly of the previous manager; Sanchez advocated the long ball though his team were tiny. Hangeland has been one of this season's outstanding defenders. He has performed more clearances, tackles and interceptions than luminaries such as Rio Ferdinand and John Terry. Yet it is perhaps the form of John Paintsil that best conveys Hodgson's coaching prowess. Bought for \u00a31.5m from West Ham, the hitherto erratic Ghana right-back has gradually refined his positional sense to become a reliable defender who can use his speed to help Hughes cover for Hangeland, a lack of pace being the Norwegian's only apparent shortcoming.Painstil's pace is also important going forward, enabling him to fire in more than 50 crosses this season, better than Ashley Cole, Patrice Evra or Bacary Sagna. The width he provides permits Simon Davies to shift frequently into the middle, reinforcing a spine already made sturdy by Jimmy Bullard and Danny Murphy. That central strength contributes to Fulham's defensive fortitude, not only by sheer numbers but because those players are also encouraged to play neat football, meaning Fulham generally enjoy more possession than their opponents. Harsh statistics may not impress everyone, but they tell it how it is: Fulham are averaging 52% possession every game, compared to a wasteful 44% under Sanchez, and pass completion in the opposing half is up to 68%, from 59%.\"It's not easy to replace a squad in a reasonably economic way,\" Hodgson says. \"But our platform is very solid now and that's something we haven't had for a few years. But even today we're still a long way off where I'd like to think the club could get to.\"For his next trick, Hodgson needs to embellish solidity with goals, particularly away, where Fulham may not lose as regularly as before but rarely win. Andy Johnson is yet to prove prolific, while Bobby Zamora was not expected to be, his role being more to replace the departed Brian McBride, the target man who never hit double figures for Fulham but was nonetheless pivotal.January will be crucial. The prospect of Bullard departing may raise fears that Fulham could unravel the way Hodgson's Blackburn did when the similarly influential Tim Sherwood agitated for a move. Fulham, though, seem more stable. More likely, perhaps, is Hodgson discovering or developing a creative talent to advance their transformation.", "tags": ["Fulham", "Premier League", "Football", "Roy Hodgson"], "title": "Premier League: Roy Hodgson joined Fulham to redeem his reputation"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Two years ago I went to Brazil with Willi, also known as my father, but Willi suits him better. I told Willi I had seven days, and he started laughing and said: \"Sara, I lived seven years out there and still haven't seen everything I wanted. You will wander out of the ordinary, but you won't make it to Fordlandia.\"I have travelled to 37 countries and 207 cities and my job involves spending much of my time in stunning new hotels, but it's this place that has occupied my mind more than any other since then: an abandoned American town, outlandishly sited in the middle of the Brazilian jungle, forgotten by almost everyone.It was created by Henry Ford, who bought 25,000km of land along the Amazon River with a dream of creating the biggest rubber plantation in the world. He imported the best German machinery, prefabricated buildings, a library, a hospital, church, a school, and hundreds of employees from Detroit, Michigan who he planned would live the perfect American lifestyle in the middle of the jungle, complete with white picket fences, hamburgers and a prohibition on all alcohol and cigarettes. Henry Ford failed, tried again in a town 50 miles away, Belterra, and failed there, too, before finally giving up in 1945, when he sold the land back to the Brazilian government. Remarkably, they have preserved it for more than 40 years. In the late 1980s, Willi visited the place. It's miles from anywhere, 100km from the port city of Santar\u00e9m, which is itself three days by riverboat from Bel\u00e9m, which is three hours by plane from Rio. He found locals still cleaning the streets and putting fresh sheets on unused beds. A true ghost town. Today, squatters live there and the very occasional adventurer wanders through. Willi's right, of course - I never did make it to Fordlandia. One day, I hope. One day.\u2022 Black Tomato can tailor-make trips to Brazil, including Fordlandia (www.blacktomato.co.uk). Local travel agency Santar\u00e9m Tur offers a two-day riverboat trip to Fordlandia and can help arrange accommodation as well as transport (www.santaremtur.com.br)", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Hotels", "South America holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Amazon holidays"], "title": "Sara Henrichs on Fordlandia in Brazil"},{"date": "2009-02-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Two years ago I went to Brazil with Willi, also known as my father, but Willi suits him better. I told Willi I had seven days, and he started laughing and said: \"Sara, I lived seven years out there and still haven't seen everything I wanted. You will wander out of the ordinary, but you won't make it to Fordlandia.\"I have travelled to 37 countries and 207 cities and my job involves spending much of my time in stunning new hotels, but it's this place that has occupied my mind more than any other since then: an abandoned American town, outlandishly sited in the middle of the Brazilian jungle, forgotten by almost everyone.It was created by Henry Ford, who bought 25,000km of land along the Amazon River with a dream of creating the biggest rubber plantation in the world. He imported the best German machinery, prefabricated buildings, a library, a hospital, church, a school, and hundreds of employees from Detroit, Michigan who he planned would live the perfect American lifestyle in the middle of the jungle, complete with white picket fences, hamburgers and a prohibition on all alcohol and cigarettes. Henry Ford failed, tried again in a town 50 miles away, Belterra, and failed there, too, before finally giving up in 1945, when he sold the land back to the Brazilian government. Remarkably, they have preserved it for more than 40 years. In the late 1980s, Willi visited the place. It's miles from anywhere, 100km from the port city of Santar\u00e9m, which is itself three days by riverboat from Bel\u00e9m, which is three hours by plane from Rio. He found locals still cleaning the streets and putting fresh sheets on unused beds. A true ghost town. Today, squatters live there and the very occasional adventurer wanders through. Willi's right, of course - I never did make it to Fordlandia. One day, I hope. One day.\u2022 Black Tomato can tailor-make trips to Brazil, including Fordlandia (www.blacktomato.co.uk). Local travel agency Santar\u00e9m Tur offers a two-day riverboat trip to Fordlandia and can help arrange accommodation as well as transport (www.santaremtur.com.br)", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Hotels", "South America holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Amazon holidays"], "title": "Sara Henrichs on Fordlandia in Brazil"},{"date": "2009-01-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The future is older. With demographics telling us that the numbers of people who will need care and support into old age are rising inexorably, the pressures on resources are increasing. Through implementing personal budgets, government is hoping that people will both opt for fewer services and obtain better services more cheaply, thus reducing the pressure on already overstretched budgets. However, there are two serious flaws in these underlying assumptions. With no incentive to spend less, there is no guarantee that people will do so. And then there is the question of finding better value: over the past few years, local authorities have taken a more active role in driving prices of services down in nearly all areas; as prices approach an irreducible minimum, consumers are likely to find they cannot obtain sufficient support to meet their needs within allocated budgets, leading to a rejection of the personal budget concept. But other branches of government are pursuing linked agendas on community participation, engagement and empowerment that are seen as a key mechanism for re-energising communities and local democracy. Opportunities exist to allow both personalisation and community participation to flourish. In order to resolve the conflict between the imperative to save taxpayers' money and the desire to give people more control over the support that they receive, there needs to be a robust incentive for people to seek alternative ways of meeting their own needs and for those around them - family or local communities - to help to provide both direct and indirect support.Assume that individuals are told that they will be able to keep, personally, some of the \"savings\" that they make. Local authorities would also be allowed to retain some of this \"surplus\" for their own use. Most importantly, local communities would receive a third portion of the savings to be spent, as they saw fit, on things that would positively enhance their interests and meet their collective needs, for example \"purchasing\" a community policeman or upgrading community facilities. In fact, they could spend their money, just like the individual budget holder, on anything they liked. The magic of this possibility is clear: vulnerable people would become community assets instead of a problem. They would be a source of local collective benefit; the more vulnerable people a community supports, the greater the potential income from savings. This, surely, lies at the heart of the community empowerment and individualisation agendas - local people incentivised to help their vulnerable neighbours and value each others' presence.Small-scale local communities, either urban or rural, involving local people and/or existing community organisations, would control and spend budgets of up to \u00a3100,000 each. Local authorities would also achieve a payback to reinvest and incentivise them to facilitate the process. The greatest difficulty is imagining that individuals would be able to keep some of their \"surpluses\" for their own purposes. But there is a precedent: the ordinary benefits system does not ask individuals to return unspent amounts, so why should this \"income\" be different?If public services are squeezed further in the recession, there is a real risk that modernisation will disappear in favour of tighter rationing. Blending together elements from both the personalisation and community empowerment agendas offers a chance to retain the momentum of these radical policies and really stimulate collective and community benefits.\u2022 Ritchard Brazil is a director of the Stamford Forum thinktank. He is speaking at Society Guardian's Managing New Realities conference on March 3 and 4. More at theguardian.com/managingnewrealities", "tags": ["Long-term care", "Social care", "NHS", "Health", "Public services policy", "Society"], "title": "Second thoughts: Individual budgets could benefit us all, says Ritchard Brazil"},{"date": "2009-04-13T13:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Are you on Facebook? Don't lie to me. Do you have a profile? What is your relationship status? Political views? Don't forget to tell me about your religious beliefs. Oh, and how we know each other. You're my cousin's hairdresser? Great, good enough for me. Let's be friends.Don't be self-conscious about it either, because if you are a member of this popular social networking site, you are hardly in the minority. In fact, Facebook announced last week that they just acquired their 200 millionth member. 200 million! Can you remember the last time 200 million people across the world were ever members of the same club, especially considering the club is only a mere five years old? Me neither. According to Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg and his team, if Facebook were a country, it would be the fifth largest in the world (more than Brazil, fewer than Indonesia). That's incredible. It would seem that Facebook is brilliantly snaking its way into almost every manner of online interaction. There's the marketplace, where you can buy/sell/trade with \"Users Near You\". There's the Notes feature, allowing you to share your innermost secrets with your family and friends and their families and friends and-oops-potential employers. There's the People You May Know feature, which allows you to reconnect with that groomsman from your college roommate's wedding which could, in theory, lead to a charming Facebook-inspired romance. Even job opportunities, tailored to your interests, are posted on the side of your Facebook homepage. And don't forget everyone's favorite microblogging tool, the status update. 160 delicious, self-absorbed characters to convey who-the-hell-cares-what: \"Meg is reading a book ... Meg thinks it's time for a cup of coffee! ... Meg can't wait to watch Lost! ... Meg WOULD REALLY LIKE SOME ATTENTION, EVERYONE.\"In reality, the status update in combination with the News Feed feature makes it possible for your friends to insert themselves in to your day as often as they'd like and unless you remove yourself from the site (an act alarmingly referred to as \"Facebook suicide\") you are powerless to stop them. You will know who is a fan of Madonna (me!), who is attending the Save the Sea Turtles rally (probably not me), and and who made it to the gym after work whether you like it or not (not a chance that this one is me).I just did a Google search for the phrase \"Facebook is taking over the world\" and I got 30,200,000 hits. Because Facebook really can be quite annoying (and can also get you fired) it tends to get a bad rap. But you have to give credit where credit is due: Facebook has certainly allowed for a unique form of social mobilisation and its spirit, speed, and versatility can not be underestimated. The ease and frequency with which users can alert friends to \"Causes\" has been credited with allowing do-gooders to find each other through shared interests in non-profits, and has allowed for donations and fundraising for those activities near and dear to one's heart. Users and non-users alike are probably fully aware of Facebook's presence in our recent presidential campaigns. The Facebook team explains that of 45 million active users, a whopping 80% are of voting age. And lest you still confuse Facebook with some teeny-bopper chat board for co-eds, reps will remind you that more than 50% of users are over the age of 35, and the fastest-growing user demographic is men and women aged 55 and over. It would seem that Mark Zuckerberg's network has morphed into an all-encompassing zeitgeist party bus, and you're either on board or you're left behind. Okay, that was a little dramatic. But it could behoove some businesses to view Facebook that way in light of its ability to broadcast or showcase a company's product or service to a rapidly multiplying target audience. Right now, just any old business can log onto Facebook, make use of its Platform feature, and therefore utilise yet another marketing tool to access a diverse and readily-available pot of potential customers. It would seem, however, that Facebook doesn't plan on being so ameniable for very much longer. As any Facebooker can tell you, the past several months have seen rumours that Facebook would start charging for its services. Gasp. Facebook might not be free anymore? What, there isn't enough revenue generated from adspace as it is? I understand the temptation to extract even more money from this beast while it's at its peak, but I can't imagine that this will allow Facebook to continue its whirlwind enrolment of new users. I mean, people will put up with a flawed product as long as that product costs zero dollars and zero cents. And Facebook is far from perfect - the relatively open access to Platforms means that nearly anyone can design an obnoxious, in-your-face application to meet their needs, and you have to suffer the consequences. (Quiz overload, anyone? I really don't care What Type Of Shoe I am.)Obviously, there are lots of people in the world who aren't on Facebook, and are never going to be. But the site finds itself at a tipping point, in terms of creating an internet presence that rivals Google's (who actually tried to purchase Facebook at one point): does it stick with the paradigm and allow Facebook to remain the social networking site open to anyone (person, place or thing) or does it streamline, retain better control of the product, and charge for its use - and thereby alienating a good portion of the population responsible for bringing it to its current omnipresence?It will be interesting to see what happens in the next year or so. If Zuckerberg and his team rock the boat too much, it's only a matter of time before a replacement product is generated and Facebook is left high and dry like last year's beauty pageant winner, forced to hand over her cyber-crown to her successor.", "tags": ["Facebook", "Social networking", "Internet", "Technology", "Media", "Media business", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Meg Kane: Facebook now has more than 200 million users"},{"date": "2009-04-13T13:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Are you on Facebook? Don't lie to me. Do you have a profile? What is your relationship status? Political views? Don't forget to tell me about your religious beliefs. Oh, and how we know each other. You're my cousin's hairdresser? Great, good enough for me. Let's be friends.Don't be self-conscious about it either, because if you are a member of this popular social networking site, you are hardly in the minority. In fact, Facebook announced last week that they just acquired their 200 millionth member. 200 million! Can you remember the last time 200 million people across the world were ever members of the same club, especially considering the club is only a mere five years old? Me neither. According to Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg and his team, if Facebook were a country, it would be the fifth largest in the world (more than Brazil, fewer than Indonesia). That's incredible. It would seem that Facebook is brilliantly snaking its way into almost every manner of online interaction. There's the marketplace, where you can buy/sell/trade with \"Users Near You\". There's the Notes feature, allowing you to share your innermost secrets with your family and friends and their families and friends and-oops-potential employers. There's the People You May Know feature, which allows you to reconnect with that groomsman from your college roommate's wedding which could, in theory, lead to a charming Facebook-inspired romance. Even job opportunities, tailored to your interests, are posted on the side of your Facebook homepage. And don't forget everyone's favorite microblogging tool, the status update. 160 delicious, self-absorbed characters to convey who-the-hell-cares-what: \"Meg is reading a book ... Meg thinks it's time for a cup of coffee! ... Meg can't wait to watch Lost! ... Meg WOULD REALLY LIKE SOME ATTENTION, EVERYONE.\"In reality, the status update in combination with the News Feed feature makes it possible for your friends to insert themselves in to your day as often as they'd like and unless you remove yourself from the site (an act alarmingly referred to as \"Facebook suicide\") you are powerless to stop them. You will know who is a fan of Madonna (me!), who is attending the Save the Sea Turtles rally (probably not me), and and who made it to the gym after work whether you like it or not (not a chance that this one is me).I just did a Google search for the phrase \"Facebook is taking over the world\" and I got 30,200,000 hits. Because Facebook really can be quite annoying (and can also get you fired) it tends to get a bad rap. But you have to give credit where credit is due: Facebook has certainly allowed for a unique form of social mobilisation and its spirit, speed, and versatility can not be underestimated. The ease and frequency with which users can alert friends to \"Causes\" has been credited with allowing do-gooders to find each other through shared interests in non-profits, and has allowed for donations and fundraising for those activities near and dear to one's heart. Users and non-users alike are probably fully aware of Facebook's presence in our recent presidential campaigns. The Facebook team explains that of 45 million active users, a whopping 80% are of voting age. And lest you still confuse Facebook with some teeny-bopper chat board for co-eds, reps will remind you that more than 50% of users are over the age of 35, and the fastest-growing user demographic is men and women aged 55 and over. It would seem that Mark Zuckerberg's network has morphed into an all-encompassing zeitgeist party bus, and you're either on board or you're left behind. Okay, that was a little dramatic. But it could behoove some businesses to view Facebook that way in light of its ability to broadcast or showcase a company's product or service to a rapidly multiplying target audience. Right now, just any old business can log onto Facebook, make use of its Platform feature, and therefore utilise yet another marketing tool to access a diverse and readily-available pot of potential customers. It would seem, however, that Facebook doesn't plan on being so ameniable for very much longer. As any Facebooker can tell you, the past several months have seen rumours that Facebook would start charging for its services. Gasp. Facebook might not be free anymore? What, there isn't enough revenue generated from adspace as it is? I understand the temptation to extract even more money from this beast while it's at its peak, but I can't imagine that this will allow Facebook to continue its whirlwind enrolment of new users. I mean, people will put up with a flawed product as long as that product costs zero dollars and zero cents. And Facebook is far from perfect - the relatively open access to Platforms means that nearly anyone can design an obnoxious, in-your-face application to meet their needs, and you have to suffer the consequences. (Quiz overload, anyone? I really don't care What Type Of Shoe I am.)Obviously, there are lots of people in the world who aren't on Facebook, and are never going to be. But the site finds itself at a tipping point, in terms of creating an internet presence that rivals Google's (who actually tried to purchase Facebook at one point): does it stick with the paradigm and allow Facebook to remain the social networking site open to anyone (person, place or thing) or does it streamline, retain better control of the product, and charge for its use - and thereby alienating a good portion of the population responsible for bringing it to its current omnipresence?It will be interesting to see what happens in the next year or so. If Zuckerberg and his team rock the boat too much, it's only a matter of time before a replacement product is generated and Facebook is left high and dry like last year's beauty pageant winner, forced to hand over her cyber-crown to her successor.", "tags": ["Facebook", "Social networking", "Internet", "Technology", "Media", "Media business", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Meg Kane: Facebook now has more than 200 million users"},{"date": "2009-05-27T09:21:04Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It looks as though Brazil's oldest daily business newspaper, Gazeta Mercantil, could end publication this week. The paper, founded in 1920, is suffering from heavy debts and facing several labour lawsuits. Its owner, Editora JB, has announced its closure from June 1. (Via WSJ)", "tags": ["Brazil", "Newspapers", "Media", "Americas"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Brazil's oldest business daily to cease publication"},{"date": "2009-04-13T13:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Are you on Facebook? Don't lie to me. Do you have a profile? What is your relationship status? Political views? Don't forget to tell me about your religious beliefs. Oh, and how we know each other. You're my cousin's hairdresser? Great, good enough for me. Let's be friends.Don't be self-conscious about it either, because if you are a member of this popular social networking site, you are hardly in the minority. In fact, Facebook announced last week that they just acquired their 200 millionth member. 200 million! Can you remember the last time 200 million people across the world were ever members of the same club, especially considering the club is only a mere five years old? Me neither. According to Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg and his team, if Facebook were a country, it would be the fifth largest in the world (more than Brazil, fewer than Indonesia). That's incredible. It would seem that Facebook is brilliantly snaking its way into almost every manner of online interaction. There's the marketplace, where you can buy/sell/trade with \"Users Near You\". There's the Notes feature, allowing you to share your innermost secrets with your family and friends and their families and friends and-oops-potential employers. There's the People You May Know feature, which allows you to reconnect with that groomsman from your college roommate's wedding which could, in theory, lead to a charming Facebook-inspired romance. Even job opportunities, tailored to your interests, are posted on the side of your Facebook homepage. And don't forget everyone's favorite microblogging tool, the status update. 160 delicious, self-absorbed characters to convey who-the-hell-cares-what: \"Meg is reading a book ... Meg thinks it's time for a cup of coffee! ... Meg can't wait to watch Lost! ... Meg WOULD REALLY LIKE SOME ATTENTION, EVERYONE.\"In reality, the status update in combination with the News Feed feature makes it possible for your friends to insert themselves in to your day as often as they'd like and unless you remove yourself from the site (an act alarmingly referred to as \"Facebook suicide\") you are powerless to stop them. You will know who is a fan of Madonna (me!), who is attending the Save the Sea Turtles rally (probably not me), and and who made it to the gym after work whether you like it or not (not a chance that this one is me).I just did a Google search for the phrase \"Facebook is taking over the world\" and I got 30,200,000 hits. Because Facebook really can be quite annoying (and can also get you fired) it tends to get a bad rap. But you have to give credit where credit is due: Facebook has certainly allowed for a unique form of social mobilisation and its spirit, speed, and versatility can not be underestimated. The ease and frequency with which users can alert friends to \"Causes\" has been credited with allowing do-gooders to find each other through shared interests in non-profits, and has allowed for donations and fundraising for those activities near and dear to one's heart. Users and non-users alike are probably fully aware of Facebook's presence in our recent presidential campaigns. The Facebook team explains that of 45 million active users, a whopping 80% are of voting age. And lest you still confuse Facebook with some teeny-bopper chat board for co-eds, reps will remind you that more than 50% of users are over the age of 35, and the fastest-growing user demographic is men and women aged 55 and over. It would seem that Mark Zuckerberg's network has morphed into an all-encompassing zeitgeist party bus, and you're either on board or you're left behind. Okay, that was a little dramatic. But it could behoove some businesses to view Facebook that way in light of its ability to broadcast or showcase a company's product or service to a rapidly multiplying target audience. Right now, just any old business can log onto Facebook, make use of its Platform feature, and therefore utilise yet another marketing tool to access a diverse and readily-available pot of potential customers. It would seem, however, that Facebook doesn't plan on being so ameniable for very much longer. As any Facebooker can tell you, the past several months have seen rumours that Facebook would start charging for its services. Gasp. Facebook might not be free anymore? What, there isn't enough revenue generated from adspace as it is? I understand the temptation to extract even more money from this beast while it's at its peak, but I can't imagine that this will allow Facebook to continue its whirlwind enrolment of new users. I mean, people will put up with a flawed product as long as that product costs zero dollars and zero cents. And Facebook is far from perfect - the relatively open access to Platforms means that nearly anyone can design an obnoxious, in-your-face application to meet their needs, and you have to suffer the consequences. (Quiz overload, anyone? I really don't care What Type Of Shoe I am.)Obviously, there are lots of people in the world who aren't on Facebook, and are never going to be. But the site finds itself at a tipping point, in terms of creating an internet presence that rivals Google's (who actually tried to purchase Facebook at one point): does it stick with the paradigm and allow Facebook to remain the social networking site open to anyone (person, place or thing) or does it streamline, retain better control of the product, and charge for its use - and thereby alienating a good portion of the population responsible for bringing it to its current omnipresence?It will be interesting to see what happens in the next year or so. If Zuckerberg and his team rock the boat too much, it's only a matter of time before a replacement product is generated and Facebook is left high and dry like last year's beauty pageant winner, forced to hand over her cyber-crown to her successor.", "tags": ["Facebook", "Social networking", "Internet", "Technology", "Media", "Media business", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Meg Kane: Facebook now has more than 200 million users"},{"date": "2009-05-27T09:21:04Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It looks as though Brazil's oldest daily business newspaper, Gazeta Mercantil, could end publication this week. The paper, founded in 1920, is suffering from heavy debts and facing several labour lawsuits. Its owner, Editora JB, has announced its closure from June 1. (Via WSJ)", "tags": ["Brazil", "Newspapers", "Media", "Americas"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Brazil's oldest business daily to cease publication"},{"date": "2009-05-06T15:20:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Floods and mudslides from months of heavy rains in northern Brazil have driven more than 186,000 from their homes, killed at least 19 people and cut off shipments from a huge Amazon iron mine, according to officials.Television footage showed the rooftops of houses poking out of inundated towns and people using boats to move around in their cities. Mudslides swamped homes and forced residents to move in with relatives and pack into emergency shelters.Globo TV's G1 website reported that three more people died in a mudslide in Bahia state, south of the main zone of devastation, but authorities did not immediately confirm the deaths.At least seven states, most in the Amazon region, have been affected by the rains, which have battered the region for several months, regional civil defence departments said. Worst-hit is the state of Maranhao along the Atlantic coast and south of the mouth of the Amazon river.Maranhao civil defence official Abner Ferreira said six major highways have been swamped, cutting off thousands of people and leaving lines of stranded cargo trucks.The rains also prompted the temporary closure of a railway that takes iron ore from the sprawling Carajas mine in the neighbouring jungle state of Para.Iron ore, the main ingredient in steel, is shipped overseas from Sao Luis, the state capital of Maranhao. The railway also transports 1,300 people per day, and G1 reported that service should be restored within two days. Vale is the world's second largest mining company and the planet's biggest iron ore producer.Brazilian president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva flew over the hardest-hit areas, delivered food baskets to shelters, met with local officials and promised aid to repair infrastructure. He also voiced concerns that global climate change could be responsible for the unusually heavy rains and destruction.\"We need to look more seriously into the climate situation these days,\" said Silva. \"Something is changing and we still have time to fix it.\"Brazil's health ministry said it would send an emergency shipment of 265,000 doses of medicine to Maranhao to prevent possible outbreaks of intestinal diseases caused by contaminated floodwaters.Ferreira said meteorologists forecast at least another two more weeks of heavy rains in northern Brazil.Floods and mudslides late last year in the southern state of Santa Catarina killed more than 100 people, displaced some 80,000 and set off a round of brutal looting in a devastated port city by people desperate for drinking water and food.", "tags": ["South America", "South America holidays", "Brazil", "Brazil holidays", "Brazil", "Flooding", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil floods leave 186,000 homeless"},{"date": "2009-04-13T13:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Are you on Facebook? Don't lie to me. Do you have a profile? What is your relationship status? Political views? Don't forget to tell me about your religious beliefs. Oh, and how we know each other. You're my cousin's hairdresser? Great, good enough for me. Let's be friends.Don't be self-conscious about it either, because if you are a member of this popular social networking site, you are hardly in the minority. In fact, Facebook announced last week that they just acquired their 200 millionth member. 200 million! Can you remember the last time 200 million people across the world were ever members of the same club, especially considering the club is only a mere five years old? Me neither. According to Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg and his team, if Facebook were a country, it would be the fifth largest in the world (more than Brazil, fewer than Indonesia). That's incredible. It would seem that Facebook is brilliantly snaking its way into almost every manner of online interaction. There's the marketplace, where you can buy/sell/trade with \"Users Near You\". There's the Notes feature, allowing you to share your innermost secrets with your family and friends and their families and friends and-oops-potential employers. There's the People You May Know feature, which allows you to reconnect with that groomsman from your college roommate's wedding which could, in theory, lead to a charming Facebook-inspired romance. Even job opportunities, tailored to your interests, are posted on the side of your Facebook homepage. And don't forget everyone's favorite microblogging tool, the status update. 160 delicious, self-absorbed characters to convey who-the-hell-cares-what: \"Meg is reading a book ... Meg thinks it's time for a cup of coffee! ... Meg can't wait to watch Lost! ... Meg WOULD REALLY LIKE SOME ATTENTION, EVERYONE.\"In reality, the status update in combination with the News Feed feature makes it possible for your friends to insert themselves in to your day as often as they'd like and unless you remove yourself from the site (an act alarmingly referred to as \"Facebook suicide\") you are powerless to stop them. You will know who is a fan of Madonna (me!), who is attending the Save the Sea Turtles rally (probably not me), and and who made it to the gym after work whether you like it or not (not a chance that this one is me).I just did a Google search for the phrase \"Facebook is taking over the world\" and I got 30,200,000 hits. Because Facebook really can be quite annoying (and can also get you fired) it tends to get a bad rap. But you have to give credit where credit is due: Facebook has certainly allowed for a unique form of social mobilisation and its spirit, speed, and versatility can not be underestimated. The ease and frequency with which users can alert friends to \"Causes\" has been credited with allowing do-gooders to find each other through shared interests in non-profits, and has allowed for donations and fundraising for those activities near and dear to one's heart. Users and non-users alike are probably fully aware of Facebook's presence in our recent presidential campaigns. The Facebook team explains that of 45 million active users, a whopping 80% are of voting age. And lest you still confuse Facebook with some teeny-bopper chat board for co-eds, reps will remind you that more than 50% of users are over the age of 35, and the fastest-growing user demographic is men and women aged 55 and over. It would seem that Mark Zuckerberg's network has morphed into an all-encompassing zeitgeist party bus, and you're either on board or you're left behind. Okay, that was a little dramatic. But it could behoove some businesses to view Facebook that way in light of its ability to broadcast or showcase a company's product or service to a rapidly multiplying target audience. Right now, just any old business can log onto Facebook, make use of its Platform feature, and therefore utilise yet another marketing tool to access a diverse and readily-available pot of potential customers. It would seem, however, that Facebook doesn't plan on being so ameniable for very much longer. As any Facebooker can tell you, the past several months have seen rumours that Facebook would start charging for its services. Gasp. Facebook might not be free anymore? What, there isn't enough revenue generated from adspace as it is? I understand the temptation to extract even more money from this beast while it's at its peak, but I can't imagine that this will allow Facebook to continue its whirlwind enrolment of new users. I mean, people will put up with a flawed product as long as that product costs zero dollars and zero cents. And Facebook is far from perfect - the relatively open access to Platforms means that nearly anyone can design an obnoxious, in-your-face application to meet their needs, and you have to suffer the consequences. (Quiz overload, anyone? I really don't care What Type Of Shoe I am.)Obviously, there are lots of people in the world who aren't on Facebook, and are never going to be. But the site finds itself at a tipping point, in terms of creating an internet presence that rivals Google's (who actually tried to purchase Facebook at one point): does it stick with the paradigm and allow Facebook to remain the social networking site open to anyone (person, place or thing) or does it streamline, retain better control of the product, and charge for its use - and thereby alienating a good portion of the population responsible for bringing it to its current omnipresence?It will be interesting to see what happens in the next year or so. If Zuckerberg and his team rock the boat too much, it's only a matter of time before a replacement product is generated and Facebook is left high and dry like last year's beauty pageant winner, forced to hand over her cyber-crown to her successor.", "tags": ["Facebook", "Social networking", "Internet", "Technology", "Media", "Media business", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Meg Kane: Facebook now has more than 200 million users"},{"date": "2009-05-27T09:21:04Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It looks as though Brazil's oldest daily business newspaper, Gazeta Mercantil, could end publication this week. The paper, founded in 1920, is suffering from heavy debts and facing several labour lawsuits. Its owner, Editora JB, has announced its closure from June 1. (Via WSJ)", "tags": ["Brazil", "Newspapers", "Media", "Americas"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Brazil's oldest business daily to cease publication"},{"date": "2009-05-06T15:20:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Floods and mudslides from months of heavy rains in northern Brazil have driven more than 186,000 from their homes, killed at least 19 people and cut off shipments from a huge Amazon iron mine, according to officials.Television footage showed the rooftops of houses poking out of inundated towns and people using boats to move around in their cities. Mudslides swamped homes and forced residents to move in with relatives and pack into emergency shelters.Globo TV's G1 website reported that three more people died in a mudslide in Bahia state, south of the main zone of devastation, but authorities did not immediately confirm the deaths.At least seven states, most in the Amazon region, have been affected by the rains, which have battered the region for several months, regional civil defence departments said. Worst-hit is the state of Maranhao along the Atlantic coast and south of the mouth of the Amazon river.Maranhao civil defence official Abner Ferreira said six major highways have been swamped, cutting off thousands of people and leaving lines of stranded cargo trucks.The rains also prompted the temporary closure of a railway that takes iron ore from the sprawling Carajas mine in the neighbouring jungle state of Para.Iron ore, the main ingredient in steel, is shipped overseas from Sao Luis, the state capital of Maranhao. The railway also transports 1,300 people per day, and G1 reported that service should be restored within two days. Vale is the world's second largest mining company and the planet's biggest iron ore producer.Brazilian president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva flew over the hardest-hit areas, delivered food baskets to shelters, met with local officials and promised aid to repair infrastructure. He also voiced concerns that global climate change could be responsible for the unusually heavy rains and destruction.\"We need to look more seriously into the climate situation these days,\" said Silva. \"Something is changing and we still have time to fix it.\"Brazil's health ministry said it would send an emergency shipment of 265,000 doses of medicine to Maranhao to prevent possible outbreaks of intestinal diseases caused by contaminated floodwaters.Ferreira said meteorologists forecast at least another two more weeks of heavy rains in northern Brazil.Floods and mudslides late last year in the southern state of Santa Catarina killed more than 100 people, displaced some 80,000 and set off a round of brutal looting in a devastated port city by people desperate for drinking water and food.", "tags": ["South America", "South America holidays", "Brazil", "Brazil holidays", "Brazil", "Flooding", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil floods leave 186,000 homeless"},{"date": "2009-04-15T12:38:42Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian equivalent of the British expression \"Just my cup of tea\" is \"\u00e9 minha praia\" ('That's my beach\"), which tells you all you need to know about the two countries' relative cultural values. Brazilians can talk for hours about their favourite strip, nowhere is more closely associated with the beach as lifestyle than Brazil, and golden sands provide many of the country's cultural icons: The Girl from Ipanema, Havaianas, fio dental (\"dental floss\") bikinis, Copacabana ...With 8,000km of coastline and thousands of beaches to choose from \u2013 most of them lying beneath palm trees in the tropics \u2013 we asked 10 experts to choose their favourites, from a river beach in the Amazon down to one of the country's hippest beach cities, Florian\u00f3polis. And if we've missed out your favourite, we'd like to hear from you.Tom Phillips, The Guardian's Brazil correspondentBrazil's best beach is not in Rio de Janeiro or the sun-bathed north-east. It's not even on the coast. It is on a river at the heart of the Amazon rainforest. Around 30km from the rainforest city of Santarem, Alter do Chao is the jungle's answer to the Caribbean. After a week holed up in the jungle, Alter do Chao is the perfect place to relax: you can lounge on the river beaches in the morning, gorge yourself on a local grilled fish in the afternoon and retreat to one of the area's many charming pousadas by night. People often call the humid and dense Amazon the \"green inferno\". Alter do Chao is its golden paradise. \u2022 Where to stay: Pousada Tupaiulandia (+55 93 3527 1157, no website) is not very expensive and pretty small, like all places in Alter do Chao, but has a lot of character. Douglas Vieira, S\u00e3o Paulo journalistParadise is the word most commonly used to describe Fernando de Noronha, an archipelago 350km off the north-east coast of Brazil. Finding a nice beach is an easy task on the small volcanic island, but visiting three is mandatory: Praia do Sancho, which is reached through a crack in a rock wall; Ba\u00eda dos Porcos (Pig's Bay), a place of astonishing beauty and great for swimming; and Atalaia, a natural saltwater pool with abundant sea life. All have translucent waters, and because tourist numbers to the islands are strictly monitored, it is easy to spot turtles, octopuses, a plethora of fish and even sharks. The food chain in Noronha is well preserved, so sharks are less dangerous here there than elsewhere.\u2022 Where to stay: Pousada Top\u00e1zio.Ricardo Freire, author of 100 Praias Que Valem a Viagem (100 Beaches You Must Visit)S\u00e3o Miguel dos Milagres fringes 15km of beaches protected both by reefs and the lack of a highway \u2013 the main coastal road turns inland, and only those in the know take the local road that leads to a forest of coconut trees and scattered villages. The sea is always warm; up to 36\u00baC at low tide in mid-afternoon - thalassotherapy for free! Set up base at Praia do Toque and walk the sands nearby. Twenty minutes north is Tatuamunha river, a sanctuary for manatees. Forty minutes south are two picture-perfect crescents: S\u00e3o Miguel and Praia do Riacho. At low tide hire a jangadeiro (a small traditional fishing boat) and head to the tidal pools. \u2022 Where to stay: Pousada do Toque, the region's pioneers. Pousada do Caju is also good, and cheaper. See Ricardo's blog (in Portuguese).Conor O'Sullivan, founder of  Tatur travel agencyThe 1,100km coastline of the state of Bahia is speckled with spectacular beaches. I love long beach walks and my favourite is Taipus de Fora on the Mara\u00fa Peninsula. The long sweep of beach ends at a headland where beautiful reef pools are exposed by the receding tide, revealing a huge naturally sheltered pool, offering wonderful snorkelling and tropical fish. South, past the headland, the sandy beach goes on and on, and I walk on and on, stopping off for a refreshing dip. On my return, I always stop in at the Bar das Meninas, a cool restaurant bar located in front of the reef pool with a creative seafood menu, breezy cocktails and chilled beers. Mara\u00fa is an indigenous word meaning the \"sun's light at daybreak\". Even more spectacular though is the light at the rising of the full moon. Here the moon seems nearer and larger than it should be, flooding the beach and tide pools in soft light. \u2022 Where to stay: Encanto da Lua, meaning The Moon's Enchantment, is just a short walk from the pools and ringside for the rising of the moon (standard doubles from R$ 230,00 (\u00a370) a night, including breakfast, dinner and transfers). Kiaroa Resort is one of Brazil's leading luxury beach resorts. Steven Chew, contributing editor Conde Nast TravellerThere's an adage with remote Brazilian beaches: first go the hippies, then the yachties, then the French ... Caraiva is still at the happy-hippy stage of discovery and even then only for a brief period in the summer. No motorised transport is possible in Caraiva so the sounds that prevail are the breeze in the high almond trees and the exhaling of a dozen mules that pull the little carts that are the only alternative to walking. The beach stretches uninterrupted for more than a day's walk in either direction - north as far as the much-hyped village of Trancoso and south to Corumbau. Golden sands lead down to the water where a firm surf pushes relentlessly against the shore and provides the soundtrack to the handful of idyllic beach bars. And then, of course, there are the goalposts that remind you that you are in Brazil.\u2022 Where to stay:  There are a few simple hotels on the beach and Fazenda Caraiva is a short boat ride up the Rio Caraiva.Gavin McOwan, Guardian TravelAt the end of Ipanema when the traffic curves round to Copacabana, pedestrians can carry on walking to Arpoador. A continuation of Ipanema beach, Arpoador ends with a tall rocky headline, an easy 60m climb, offering stunning views of the whole length of Ipanema, Leblon and the famous Dois Irm\u00e3os mountain. From the pavement wooden steps lead you down to the sandy beach, a favourite with surfers, body surfers and local bathers (most tourists stick to Ipanema or Copacabana). Arpoador is one of the few beaches which is lit up at night so a late night dip is also a possibility. End the day sipping a caipirinha and nibbling on a prawn pastel on one of the outdoor tables at the Azul Marinho restaurant, the only beachside restaurant in Arpoador and Ipanema, with a fantastic ocean view where you can also watch groups of local kids practicing capoeira and small bands of musicians.\u2022 Where to stay:  Ipanema Penthouse (three-bedroom flats from $250 a night, including maid service).Nadia Nightingale, Rio residentIlha Grande \u2013 big island \u2013 is home to Lopes Mendes, the beach of your dreams, a sweeping 3km of the whitest, finest sand that stretches out to a calm, crystal blue ocean. With not a building or restaurant in sight, Lopes Mendes is lined with palm and almond trees offering only a little shade. Bathers will need to take plenty of suntan lotion, snacks and a good book \u2013 although there are always a couple of drinks sellers peddling chilled beers. Getting there involves a three-hour bus journey from Rio to Angra dos Reis then a hop on the ferry to Ilha Grande. A scenic 40-minute boat trip takes you to Abra\u00e3o, the island's only town. Once in Abra\u00e3o take a small taxi-boat to Manges beach, the last boat stop before Lopes Mendes. Landing on the beach, walk up over a hill and then down through a small forest to the beach. As you walk out of the forest, the beach is right in front of you in all its glory.\u2022 Where to stay: Pousada So Natureza in Abra\u00e3o has a pool, air conditioning and is extremely friendly (Doubles from R$ 200,00 (\u00a362) a night including breakfast).includes breakfast .Simon Heyes, Latin American Travel AssociationHalfway between two of Latin America's biggest cities, Rio de Janeiro and S\u00e3o Paulo, but truly a world apart, lies one of Brazil's great natural jewels, where protected, heavily forested coastal mountains drop vertiginously into beaches and azure sea. Praia da Fazenda arcs effortlessly across the wide bay from the small, traditional fishing village of Picinguaba. Wade across the river \u2013 catch a flash of kingfisher green among the mangroves \u2013 and two miles of deserted beach lie ahead. To your right uninterrupted forest and mountains; on your left the bay, scattered palm topped islands and fish jumping. Things I love about this place: running at dawn you feel like the only person for a hundred miles; the cool, delicious natural spring at the far end; the gentle rise and shelter that provides a perfect spot for longboard surfing; and watching a school of dolphins from a kayak, and once even a whale!\u2022 Where to stay: Pousada Picinguaba, a charming pousada in a beautiful, natural setting (Standard doubles from \u20ac122.50 (\u00a3108) per person a night, incl breakfast and dinner). Further information on Picinguaba and Brazil at lata.org.Ariel Kostman, Metro newspaper, S\u00e3o PauloYou'll have to walk a fair way to arrive at his beach \u2013 but don't think of that as a punishment. For me, the path is the best part, as you pass waterfalls and walk in the shade of the Mata Atl\u00e2ntica, Brazil's dwindling virgin coastal forest. Half an hour before the end of the 15km walk you'll see the beach at Bonete: this is what Brazil must have looked like to the Portuguese when they first arrived over 500 years ago: just blue sea, golden sand and dense green forest. Finally, the beach: a half-mile strip of sand next to a river estuary, with good waves for surfing. There's a small community of fishermen who offer very simple accommodation, or you can camp (you should stay at least two days). To return to Sepituba, on Ilhabela, there are canoes and boats (US$30pp) unless you enjoy the walk as much as I do, and decide return on foot, too.  \u2022 Where to stay: If you want comfort, Canto Bravo. Further information: ilhabela.sp.gov.br.Caio Capela, Tucano House ownerFlorian\u00f3polis island has over 42 breathtaking beaches. Praia Mole, the most popular in the heart of \"Floripa\" and surrounded by green mountains, is where the young and beautiful head. But my favourite is Lagoinha do Leste, a deserted beach on the south of the island, an hour's hike away. It is one of the most beautiful beaches in Brazil, and backed by Atlantic rainforest, with dunes, sandbanks, a lake and rocky coastline. Perfect for camping (no campsite, pitch anywhere) or for a day trip. And after the track or boat ride back, you can finish the day eating at Arantes, the most popular seafood restaurant in Florianopolis. \u2022 Where to stay: Tucano House Backpackers (doubles from \u00a312 a night, dorms from \u00a39).", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Beach holidays", "Top 10s", "Travel", "Rio de Janeiro holidays"], "title": "Top 10 beaches in Brazil"},{"date": "2009-04-13T13:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Are you on Facebook? Don't lie to me. Do you have a profile? What is your relationship status? Political views? Don't forget to tell me about your religious beliefs. Oh, and how we know each other. You're my cousin's hairdresser? Great, good enough for me. Let's be friends.Don't be self-conscious about it either, because if you are a member of this popular social networking site, you are hardly in the minority. In fact, Facebook announced last week that they just acquired their 200 millionth member. 200 million! Can you remember the last time 200 million people across the world were ever members of the same club, especially considering the club is only a mere five years old? Me neither. According to Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg and his team, if Facebook were a country, it would be the fifth largest in the world (more than Brazil, fewer than Indonesia). That's incredible. It would seem that Facebook is brilliantly snaking its way into almost every manner of online interaction. There's the marketplace, where you can buy/sell/trade with \"Users Near You\". There's the Notes feature, allowing you to share your innermost secrets with your family and friends and their families and friends and-oops-potential employers. There's the People You May Know feature, which allows you to reconnect with that groomsman from your college roommate's wedding which could, in theory, lead to a charming Facebook-inspired romance. Even job opportunities, tailored to your interests, are posted on the side of your Facebook homepage. And don't forget everyone's favorite microblogging tool, the status update. 160 delicious, self-absorbed characters to convey who-the-hell-cares-what: \"Meg is reading a book ... Meg thinks it's time for a cup of coffee! ... Meg can't wait to watch Lost! ... Meg WOULD REALLY LIKE SOME ATTENTION, EVERYONE.\"In reality, the status update in combination with the News Feed feature makes it possible for your friends to insert themselves in to your day as often as they'd like and unless you remove yourself from the site (an act alarmingly referred to as \"Facebook suicide\") you are powerless to stop them. You will know who is a fan of Madonna (me!), who is attending the Save the Sea Turtles rally (probably not me), and and who made it to the gym after work whether you like it or not (not a chance that this one is me).I just did a Google search for the phrase \"Facebook is taking over the world\" and I got 30,200,000 hits. Because Facebook really can be quite annoying (and can also get you fired) it tends to get a bad rap. But you have to give credit where credit is due: Facebook has certainly allowed for a unique form of social mobilisation and its spirit, speed, and versatility can not be underestimated. The ease and frequency with which users can alert friends to \"Causes\" has been credited with allowing do-gooders to find each other through shared interests in non-profits, and has allowed for donations and fundraising for those activities near and dear to one's heart. Users and non-users alike are probably fully aware of Facebook's presence in our recent presidential campaigns. The Facebook team explains that of 45 million active users, a whopping 80% are of voting age. And lest you still confuse Facebook with some teeny-bopper chat board for co-eds, reps will remind you that more than 50% of users are over the age of 35, and the fastest-growing user demographic is men and women aged 55 and over. It would seem that Mark Zuckerberg's network has morphed into an all-encompassing zeitgeist party bus, and you're either on board or you're left behind. Okay, that was a little dramatic. But it could behoove some businesses to view Facebook that way in light of its ability to broadcast or showcase a company's product or service to a rapidly multiplying target audience. Right now, just any old business can log onto Facebook, make use of its Platform feature, and therefore utilise yet another marketing tool to access a diverse and readily-available pot of potential customers. It would seem, however, that Facebook doesn't plan on being so ameniable for very much longer. As any Facebooker can tell you, the past several months have seen rumours that Facebook would start charging for its services. Gasp. Facebook might not be free anymore? What, there isn't enough revenue generated from adspace as it is? I understand the temptation to extract even more money from this beast while it's at its peak, but I can't imagine that this will allow Facebook to continue its whirlwind enrolment of new users. I mean, people will put up with a flawed product as long as that product costs zero dollars and zero cents. And Facebook is far from perfect - the relatively open access to Platforms means that nearly anyone can design an obnoxious, in-your-face application to meet their needs, and you have to suffer the consequences. (Quiz overload, anyone? I really don't care What Type Of Shoe I am.)Obviously, there are lots of people in the world who aren't on Facebook, and are never going to be. But the site finds itself at a tipping point, in terms of creating an internet presence that rivals Google's (who actually tried to purchase Facebook at one point): does it stick with the paradigm and allow Facebook to remain the social networking site open to anyone (person, place or thing) or does it streamline, retain better control of the product, and charge for its use - and thereby alienating a good portion of the population responsible for bringing it to its current omnipresence?It will be interesting to see what happens in the next year or so. If Zuckerberg and his team rock the boat too much, it's only a matter of time before a replacement product is generated and Facebook is left high and dry like last year's beauty pageant winner, forced to hand over her cyber-crown to her successor.", "tags": ["Facebook", "Social networking", "Internet", "Technology", "Media", "Media business", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Meg Kane: Facebook now has more than 200 million users"},{"date": "2009-05-27T09:21:04Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It looks as though Brazil's oldest daily business newspaper, Gazeta Mercantil, could end publication this week. The paper, founded in 1920, is suffering from heavy debts and facing several labour lawsuits. Its owner, Editora JB, has announced its closure from June 1. (Via WSJ)", "tags": ["Brazil", "Newspapers", "Media", "Americas"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Brazil's oldest business daily to cease publication"},{"date": "2009-05-06T15:20:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Floods and mudslides from months of heavy rains in northern Brazil have driven more than 186,000 from their homes, killed at least 19 people and cut off shipments from a huge Amazon iron mine, according to officials.Television footage showed the rooftops of houses poking out of inundated towns and people using boats to move around in their cities. Mudslides swamped homes and forced residents to move in with relatives and pack into emergency shelters.Globo TV's G1 website reported that three more people died in a mudslide in Bahia state, south of the main zone of devastation, but authorities did not immediately confirm the deaths.At least seven states, most in the Amazon region, have been affected by the rains, which have battered the region for several months, regional civil defence departments said. Worst-hit is the state of Maranhao along the Atlantic coast and south of the mouth of the Amazon river.Maranhao civil defence official Abner Ferreira said six major highways have been swamped, cutting off thousands of people and leaving lines of stranded cargo trucks.The rains also prompted the temporary closure of a railway that takes iron ore from the sprawling Carajas mine in the neighbouring jungle state of Para.Iron ore, the main ingredient in steel, is shipped overseas from Sao Luis, the state capital of Maranhao. The railway also transports 1,300 people per day, and G1 reported that service should be restored within two days. Vale is the world's second largest mining company and the planet's biggest iron ore producer.Brazilian president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva flew over the hardest-hit areas, delivered food baskets to shelters, met with local officials and promised aid to repair infrastructure. He also voiced concerns that global climate change could be responsible for the unusually heavy rains and destruction.\"We need to look more seriously into the climate situation these days,\" said Silva. \"Something is changing and we still have time to fix it.\"Brazil's health ministry said it would send an emergency shipment of 265,000 doses of medicine to Maranhao to prevent possible outbreaks of intestinal diseases caused by contaminated floodwaters.Ferreira said meteorologists forecast at least another two more weeks of heavy rains in northern Brazil.Floods and mudslides late last year in the southern state of Santa Catarina killed more than 100 people, displaced some 80,000 and set off a round of brutal looting in a devastated port city by people desperate for drinking water and food.", "tags": ["South America", "South America holidays", "Brazil", "Brazil holidays", "Brazil", "Flooding", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil floods leave 186,000 homeless"},{"date": "2009-04-15T12:38:42Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian equivalent of the British expression \"Just my cup of tea\" is \"\u00e9 minha praia\" ('That's my beach\"), which tells you all you need to know about the two countries' relative cultural values. Brazilians can talk for hours about their favourite strip, nowhere is more closely associated with the beach as lifestyle than Brazil, and golden sands provide many of the country's cultural icons: The Girl from Ipanema, Havaianas, fio dental (\"dental floss\") bikinis, Copacabana ...With 8,000km of coastline and thousands of beaches to choose from \u2013 most of them lying beneath palm trees in the tropics \u2013 we asked 10 experts to choose their favourites, from a river beach in the Amazon down to one of the country's hippest beach cities, Florian\u00f3polis. And if we've missed out your favourite, we'd like to hear from you.Tom Phillips, The Guardian's Brazil correspondentBrazil's best beach is not in Rio de Janeiro or the sun-bathed north-east. It's not even on the coast. It is on a river at the heart of the Amazon rainforest. Around 30km from the rainforest city of Santarem, Alter do Chao is the jungle's answer to the Caribbean. After a week holed up in the jungle, Alter do Chao is the perfect place to relax: you can lounge on the river beaches in the morning, gorge yourself on a local grilled fish in the afternoon and retreat to one of the area's many charming pousadas by night. People often call the humid and dense Amazon the \"green inferno\". Alter do Chao is its golden paradise. \u2022 Where to stay: Pousada Tupaiulandia (+55 93 3527 1157, no website) is not very expensive and pretty small, like all places in Alter do Chao, but has a lot of character. Douglas Vieira, S\u00e3o Paulo journalistParadise is the word most commonly used to describe Fernando de Noronha, an archipelago 350km off the north-east coast of Brazil. Finding a nice beach is an easy task on the small volcanic island, but visiting three is mandatory: Praia do Sancho, which is reached through a crack in a rock wall; Ba\u00eda dos Porcos (Pig's Bay), a place of astonishing beauty and great for swimming; and Atalaia, a natural saltwater pool with abundant sea life. All have translucent waters, and because tourist numbers to the islands are strictly monitored, it is easy to spot turtles, octopuses, a plethora of fish and even sharks. The food chain in Noronha is well preserved, so sharks are less dangerous here there than elsewhere.\u2022 Where to stay: Pousada Top\u00e1zio.Ricardo Freire, author of 100 Praias Que Valem a Viagem (100 Beaches You Must Visit)S\u00e3o Miguel dos Milagres fringes 15km of beaches protected both by reefs and the lack of a highway \u2013 the main coastal road turns inland, and only those in the know take the local road that leads to a forest of coconut trees and scattered villages. The sea is always warm; up to 36\u00baC at low tide in mid-afternoon - thalassotherapy for free! Set up base at Praia do Toque and walk the sands nearby. Twenty minutes north is Tatuamunha river, a sanctuary for manatees. Forty minutes south are two picture-perfect crescents: S\u00e3o Miguel and Praia do Riacho. At low tide hire a jangadeiro (a small traditional fishing boat) and head to the tidal pools. \u2022 Where to stay: Pousada do Toque, the region's pioneers. Pousada do Caju is also good, and cheaper. See Ricardo's blog (in Portuguese).Conor O'Sullivan, founder of  Tatur travel agencyThe 1,100km coastline of the state of Bahia is speckled with spectacular beaches. I love long beach walks and my favourite is Taipus de Fora on the Mara\u00fa Peninsula. The long sweep of beach ends at a headland where beautiful reef pools are exposed by the receding tide, revealing a huge naturally sheltered pool, offering wonderful snorkelling and tropical fish. South, past the headland, the sandy beach goes on and on, and I walk on and on, stopping off for a refreshing dip. On my return, I always stop in at the Bar das Meninas, a cool restaurant bar located in front of the reef pool with a creative seafood menu, breezy cocktails and chilled beers. Mara\u00fa is an indigenous word meaning the \"sun's light at daybreak\". Even more spectacular though is the light at the rising of the full moon. Here the moon seems nearer and larger than it should be, flooding the beach and tide pools in soft light. \u2022 Where to stay: Encanto da Lua, meaning The Moon's Enchantment, is just a short walk from the pools and ringside for the rising of the moon (standard doubles from R$ 230,00 (\u00a370) a night, including breakfast, dinner and transfers). Kiaroa Resort is one of Brazil's leading luxury beach resorts. Steven Chew, contributing editor Conde Nast TravellerThere's an adage with remote Brazilian beaches: first go the hippies, then the yachties, then the French ... Caraiva is still at the happy-hippy stage of discovery and even then only for a brief period in the summer. No motorised transport is possible in Caraiva so the sounds that prevail are the breeze in the high almond trees and the exhaling of a dozen mules that pull the little carts that are the only alternative to walking. The beach stretches uninterrupted for more than a day's walk in either direction - north as far as the much-hyped village of Trancoso and south to Corumbau. Golden sands lead down to the water where a firm surf pushes relentlessly against the shore and provides the soundtrack to the handful of idyllic beach bars. And then, of course, there are the goalposts that remind you that you are in Brazil.\u2022 Where to stay:  There are a few simple hotels on the beach and Fazenda Caraiva is a short boat ride up the Rio Caraiva.Gavin McOwan, Guardian TravelAt the end of Ipanema when the traffic curves round to Copacabana, pedestrians can carry on walking to Arpoador. A continuation of Ipanema beach, Arpoador ends with a tall rocky headline, an easy 60m climb, offering stunning views of the whole length of Ipanema, Leblon and the famous Dois Irm\u00e3os mountain. From the pavement wooden steps lead you down to the sandy beach, a favourite with surfers, body surfers and local bathers (most tourists stick to Ipanema or Copacabana). Arpoador is one of the few beaches which is lit up at night so a late night dip is also a possibility. End the day sipping a caipirinha and nibbling on a prawn pastel on one of the outdoor tables at the Azul Marinho restaurant, the only beachside restaurant in Arpoador and Ipanema, with a fantastic ocean view where you can also watch groups of local kids practicing capoeira and small bands of musicians.\u2022 Where to stay:  Ipanema Penthouse (three-bedroom flats from $250 a night, including maid service).Nadia Nightingale, Rio residentIlha Grande \u2013 big island \u2013 is home to Lopes Mendes, the beach of your dreams, a sweeping 3km of the whitest, finest sand that stretches out to a calm, crystal blue ocean. With not a building or restaurant in sight, Lopes Mendes is lined with palm and almond trees offering only a little shade. Bathers will need to take plenty of suntan lotion, snacks and a good book \u2013 although there are always a couple of drinks sellers peddling chilled beers. Getting there involves a three-hour bus journey from Rio to Angra dos Reis then a hop on the ferry to Ilha Grande. A scenic 40-minute boat trip takes you to Abra\u00e3o, the island's only town. Once in Abra\u00e3o take a small taxi-boat to Manges beach, the last boat stop before Lopes Mendes. Landing on the beach, walk up over a hill and then down through a small forest to the beach. As you walk out of the forest, the beach is right in front of you in all its glory.\u2022 Where to stay: Pousada So Natureza in Abra\u00e3o has a pool, air conditioning and is extremely friendly (Doubles from R$ 200,00 (\u00a362) a night including breakfast).includes breakfast .Simon Heyes, Latin American Travel AssociationHalfway between two of Latin America's biggest cities, Rio de Janeiro and S\u00e3o Paulo, but truly a world apart, lies one of Brazil's great natural jewels, where protected, heavily forested coastal mountains drop vertiginously into beaches and azure sea. Praia da Fazenda arcs effortlessly across the wide bay from the small, traditional fishing village of Picinguaba. Wade across the river \u2013 catch a flash of kingfisher green among the mangroves \u2013 and two miles of deserted beach lie ahead. To your right uninterrupted forest and mountains; on your left the bay, scattered palm topped islands and fish jumping. Things I love about this place: running at dawn you feel like the only person for a hundred miles; the cool, delicious natural spring at the far end; the gentle rise and shelter that provides a perfect spot for longboard surfing; and watching a school of dolphins from a kayak, and once even a whale!\u2022 Where to stay: Pousada Picinguaba, a charming pousada in a beautiful, natural setting (Standard doubles from \u20ac122.50 (\u00a3108) per person a night, incl breakfast and dinner). Further information on Picinguaba and Brazil at lata.org.Ariel Kostman, Metro newspaper, S\u00e3o PauloYou'll have to walk a fair way to arrive at his beach \u2013 but don't think of that as a punishment. For me, the path is the best part, as you pass waterfalls and walk in the shade of the Mata Atl\u00e2ntica, Brazil's dwindling virgin coastal forest. Half an hour before the end of the 15km walk you'll see the beach at Bonete: this is what Brazil must have looked like to the Portuguese when they first arrived over 500 years ago: just blue sea, golden sand and dense green forest. Finally, the beach: a half-mile strip of sand next to a river estuary, with good waves for surfing. There's a small community of fishermen who offer very simple accommodation, or you can camp (you should stay at least two days). To return to Sepituba, on Ilhabela, there are canoes and boats (US$30pp) unless you enjoy the walk as much as I do, and decide return on foot, too.  \u2022 Where to stay: If you want comfort, Canto Bravo. Further information: ilhabela.sp.gov.br.Caio Capela, Tucano House ownerFlorian\u00f3polis island has over 42 breathtaking beaches. Praia Mole, the most popular in the heart of \"Floripa\" and surrounded by green mountains, is where the young and beautiful head. But my favourite is Lagoinha do Leste, a deserted beach on the south of the island, an hour's hike away. It is one of the most beautiful beaches in Brazil, and backed by Atlantic rainforest, with dunes, sandbanks, a lake and rocky coastline. Perfect for camping (no campsite, pitch anywhere) or for a day trip. And after the track or boat ride back, you can finish the day eating at Arantes, the most popular seafood restaurant in Florianopolis. \u2022 Where to stay: Tucano House Backpackers (doubles from \u00a312 a night, dorms from \u00a39).", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Beach holidays", "Top 10s", "Travel", "Rio de Janeiro holidays"], "title": "Top 10 beaches in Brazil"},{"date": "2009-05-15T01:46:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian man accused of murdering and dismembering a London teenager last summer had a history of violence and drug use, a court heard today as his trial began in Goiania, in Brazil's mid-west.Mohammed D'Ali Carvalho dos Santos, 21, is accused of killing 17-year-old Cara Marie Burke after she threatened to tell his family about his involvement with drugs. After murdering her in his 13th floor apartment in the city, police say he dismembered the body in the bathroom before sending photos and boastful text messages to friends on his mobile phone.The torso of Burke, from Southfields, south-west London, was found dumped on a riverbank on the outskirts of Goiania inside a black suitcase on 29 July last year, four days after her murder. Police believe Dos Santos had hoped to marry her in order to obtain a British visa.Santos told the court he had been smoking crack cocaine for four days when Cara threatened to tell his mother he was spending all his money on drugs if he didn't give her an unspecified amount of cash. She also threatened to have a police officer confiscate his drugs.As she went into the living room to phone the officer, Santos said he started stabbing her with a knife that he had been using to cut up cocaine.\"I don't remember where I stabbed,\" Santos testified. \"I kept on stabbing away, not knowing where, and when I saw what I had done, she was dead.\"Santos said he then took a bath and went to an all-night party. On the way home he said he stopped at a supermarket and bought a larger knife so he could cut up her body.After arriving home, he put her body in a bathtub and severed her limbs and head, putting them in one suitcase and her torso in another, according to his testimony.A porter at his apartment building told the jury how he had seen Dos Santos dragging a large black bag out of the building the day after Cara's death.Jane Lucia Souza Oliveira, Dos Santos's aunt, told the court that the defendant's father had been murdered and dismembered when his son was two years old. Oliveira said her nephew had spent time in a young offenders' institute, had once carried a revolver, and had stabbed his brother after a row about which television programme they should watch.His girlfriend, Hellen Vitoria, 19, told the court Dos Santos was a \"caring\" man.His lawyers are expected to plead diminished responsibility, claiming \"he had been awake for four days\" after using 50 grams of cocaine each day.Speaking to the Guardian in his cramped prison cell days after Cara's death, Dos Santos said he did not remember killing her, but admitted having \"memories of cutting her up\". If convicted he could spend up to 30 years in jail.", "tags": ["Brazil", "UK news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil trial opens over London teenager's murder"},{"date": "2009-04-13T13:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Are you on Facebook? Don't lie to me. Do you have a profile? What is your relationship status? Political views? Don't forget to tell me about your religious beliefs. Oh, and how we know each other. You're my cousin's hairdresser? Great, good enough for me. Let's be friends.Don't be self-conscious about it either, because if you are a member of this popular social networking site, you are hardly in the minority. In fact, Facebook announced last week that they just acquired their 200 millionth member. 200 million! Can you remember the last time 200 million people across the world were ever members of the same club, especially considering the club is only a mere five years old? Me neither. According to Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg and his team, if Facebook were a country, it would be the fifth largest in the world (more than Brazil, fewer than Indonesia). That's incredible. It would seem that Facebook is brilliantly snaking its way into almost every manner of online interaction. There's the marketplace, where you can buy/sell/trade with \"Users Near You\". There's the Notes feature, allowing you to share your innermost secrets with your family and friends and their families and friends and-oops-potential employers. There's the People You May Know feature, which allows you to reconnect with that groomsman from your college roommate's wedding which could, in theory, lead to a charming Facebook-inspired romance. Even job opportunities, tailored to your interests, are posted on the side of your Facebook homepage. And don't forget everyone's favorite microblogging tool, the status update. 160 delicious, self-absorbed characters to convey who-the-hell-cares-what: \"Meg is reading a book ... Meg thinks it's time for a cup of coffee! ... Meg can't wait to watch Lost! ... Meg WOULD REALLY LIKE SOME ATTENTION, EVERYONE.\"In reality, the status update in combination with the News Feed feature makes it possible for your friends to insert themselves in to your day as often as they'd like and unless you remove yourself from the site (an act alarmingly referred to as \"Facebook suicide\") you are powerless to stop them. You will know who is a fan of Madonna (me!), who is attending the Save the Sea Turtles rally (probably not me), and and who made it to the gym after work whether you like it or not (not a chance that this one is me).I just did a Google search for the phrase \"Facebook is taking over the world\" and I got 30,200,000 hits. Because Facebook really can be quite annoying (and can also get you fired) it tends to get a bad rap. But you have to give credit where credit is due: Facebook has certainly allowed for a unique form of social mobilisation and its spirit, speed, and versatility can not be underestimated. The ease and frequency with which users can alert friends to \"Causes\" has been credited with allowing do-gooders to find each other through shared interests in non-profits, and has allowed for donations and fundraising for those activities near and dear to one's heart. Users and non-users alike are probably fully aware of Facebook's presence in our recent presidential campaigns. The Facebook team explains that of 45 million active users, a whopping 80% are of voting age. And lest you still confuse Facebook with some teeny-bopper chat board for co-eds, reps will remind you that more than 50% of users are over the age of 35, and the fastest-growing user demographic is men and women aged 55 and over. It would seem that Mark Zuckerberg's network has morphed into an all-encompassing zeitgeist party bus, and you're either on board or you're left behind. Okay, that was a little dramatic. But it could behoove some businesses to view Facebook that way in light of its ability to broadcast or showcase a company's product or service to a rapidly multiplying target audience. Right now, just any old business can log onto Facebook, make use of its Platform feature, and therefore utilise yet another marketing tool to access a diverse and readily-available pot of potential customers. It would seem, however, that Facebook doesn't plan on being so ameniable for very much longer. As any Facebooker can tell you, the past several months have seen rumours that Facebook would start charging for its services. Gasp. Facebook might not be free anymore? What, there isn't enough revenue generated from adspace as it is? I understand the temptation to extract even more money from this beast while it's at its peak, but I can't imagine that this will allow Facebook to continue its whirlwind enrolment of new users. I mean, people will put up with a flawed product as long as that product costs zero dollars and zero cents. And Facebook is far from perfect - the relatively open access to Platforms means that nearly anyone can design an obnoxious, in-your-face application to meet their needs, and you have to suffer the consequences. (Quiz overload, anyone? I really don't care What Type Of Shoe I am.)Obviously, there are lots of people in the world who aren't on Facebook, and are never going to be. But the site finds itself at a tipping point, in terms of creating an internet presence that rivals Google's (who actually tried to purchase Facebook at one point): does it stick with the paradigm and allow Facebook to remain the social networking site open to anyone (person, place or thing) or does it streamline, retain better control of the product, and charge for its use - and thereby alienating a good portion of the population responsible for bringing it to its current omnipresence?It will be interesting to see what happens in the next year or so. If Zuckerberg and his team rock the boat too much, it's only a matter of time before a replacement product is generated and Facebook is left high and dry like last year's beauty pageant winner, forced to hand over her cyber-crown to her successor.", "tags": ["Facebook", "Social networking", "Internet", "Technology", "Media", "Media business", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Meg Kane: Facebook now has more than 200 million users"},{"date": "2009-05-27T09:21:04Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It looks as though Brazil's oldest daily business newspaper, Gazeta Mercantil, could end publication this week. The paper, founded in 1920, is suffering from heavy debts and facing several labour lawsuits. Its owner, Editora JB, has announced its closure from June 1. (Via WSJ)", "tags": ["Brazil", "Newspapers", "Media", "Americas"], "title": "Roy Greenslade: Brazil's oldest business daily to cease publication"},{"date": "2009-05-06T15:20:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Floods and mudslides from months of heavy rains in northern Brazil have driven more than 186,000 from their homes, killed at least 19 people and cut off shipments from a huge Amazon iron mine, according to officials.Television footage showed the rooftops of houses poking out of inundated towns and people using boats to move around in their cities. Mudslides swamped homes and forced residents to move in with relatives and pack into emergency shelters.Globo TV's G1 website reported that three more people died in a mudslide in Bahia state, south of the main zone of devastation, but authorities did not immediately confirm the deaths.At least seven states, most in the Amazon region, have been affected by the rains, which have battered the region for several months, regional civil defence departments said. Worst-hit is the state of Maranhao along the Atlantic coast and south of the mouth of the Amazon river.Maranhao civil defence official Abner Ferreira said six major highways have been swamped, cutting off thousands of people and leaving lines of stranded cargo trucks.The rains also prompted the temporary closure of a railway that takes iron ore from the sprawling Carajas mine in the neighbouring jungle state of Para.Iron ore, the main ingredient in steel, is shipped overseas from Sao Luis, the state capital of Maranhao. The railway also transports 1,300 people per day, and G1 reported that service should be restored within two days. Vale is the world's second largest mining company and the planet's biggest iron ore producer.Brazilian president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva flew over the hardest-hit areas, delivered food baskets to shelters, met with local officials and promised aid to repair infrastructure. He also voiced concerns that global climate change could be responsible for the unusually heavy rains and destruction.\"We need to look more seriously into the climate situation these days,\" said Silva. \"Something is changing and we still have time to fix it.\"Brazil's health ministry said it would send an emergency shipment of 265,000 doses of medicine to Maranhao to prevent possible outbreaks of intestinal diseases caused by contaminated floodwaters.Ferreira said meteorologists forecast at least another two more weeks of heavy rains in northern Brazil.Floods and mudslides late last year in the southern state of Santa Catarina killed more than 100 people, displaced some 80,000 and set off a round of brutal looting in a devastated port city by people desperate for drinking water and food.", "tags": ["South America", "South America holidays", "Brazil", "Brazil holidays", "Brazil", "Flooding", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil floods leave 186,000 homeless"},{"date": "2009-04-15T12:38:42Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian equivalent of the British expression \"Just my cup of tea\" is \"\u00e9 minha praia\" ('That's my beach\"), which tells you all you need to know about the two countries' relative cultural values. Brazilians can talk for hours about their favourite strip, nowhere is more closely associated with the beach as lifestyle than Brazil, and golden sands provide many of the country's cultural icons: The Girl from Ipanema, Havaianas, fio dental (\"dental floss\") bikinis, Copacabana ...With 8,000km of coastline and thousands of beaches to choose from \u2013 most of them lying beneath palm trees in the tropics \u2013 we asked 10 experts to choose their favourites, from a river beach in the Amazon down to one of the country's hippest beach cities, Florian\u00f3polis. And if we've missed out your favourite, we'd like to hear from you.Tom Phillips, The Guardian's Brazil correspondentBrazil's best beach is not in Rio de Janeiro or the sun-bathed north-east. It's not even on the coast. It is on a river at the heart of the Amazon rainforest. Around 30km from the rainforest city of Santarem, Alter do Chao is the jungle's answer to the Caribbean. After a week holed up in the jungle, Alter do Chao is the perfect place to relax: you can lounge on the river beaches in the morning, gorge yourself on a local grilled fish in the afternoon and retreat to one of the area's many charming pousadas by night. People often call the humid and dense Amazon the \"green inferno\". Alter do Chao is its golden paradise. \u2022 Where to stay: Pousada Tupaiulandia (+55 93 3527 1157, no website) is not very expensive and pretty small, like all places in Alter do Chao, but has a lot of character. Douglas Vieira, S\u00e3o Paulo journalistParadise is the word most commonly used to describe Fernando de Noronha, an archipelago 350km off the north-east coast of Brazil. Finding a nice beach is an easy task on the small volcanic island, but visiting three is mandatory: Praia do Sancho, which is reached through a crack in a rock wall; Ba\u00eda dos Porcos (Pig's Bay), a place of astonishing beauty and great for swimming; and Atalaia, a natural saltwater pool with abundant sea life. All have translucent waters, and because tourist numbers to the islands are strictly monitored, it is easy to spot turtles, octopuses, a plethora of fish and even sharks. The food chain in Noronha is well preserved, so sharks are less dangerous here there than elsewhere.\u2022 Where to stay: Pousada Top\u00e1zio.Ricardo Freire, author of 100 Praias Que Valem a Viagem (100 Beaches You Must Visit)S\u00e3o Miguel dos Milagres fringes 15km of beaches protected both by reefs and the lack of a highway \u2013 the main coastal road turns inland, and only those in the know take the local road that leads to a forest of coconut trees and scattered villages. The sea is always warm; up to 36\u00baC at low tide in mid-afternoon - thalassotherapy for free! Set up base at Praia do Toque and walk the sands nearby. Twenty minutes north is Tatuamunha river, a sanctuary for manatees. Forty minutes south are two picture-perfect crescents: S\u00e3o Miguel and Praia do Riacho. At low tide hire a jangadeiro (a small traditional fishing boat) and head to the tidal pools. \u2022 Where to stay: Pousada do Toque, the region's pioneers. Pousada do Caju is also good, and cheaper. See Ricardo's blog (in Portuguese).Conor O'Sullivan, founder of  Tatur travel agencyThe 1,100km coastline of the state of Bahia is speckled with spectacular beaches. I love long beach walks and my favourite is Taipus de Fora on the Mara\u00fa Peninsula. The long sweep of beach ends at a headland where beautiful reef pools are exposed by the receding tide, revealing a huge naturally sheltered pool, offering wonderful snorkelling and tropical fish. South, past the headland, the sandy beach goes on and on, and I walk on and on, stopping off for a refreshing dip. On my return, I always stop in at the Bar das Meninas, a cool restaurant bar located in front of the reef pool with a creative seafood menu, breezy cocktails and chilled beers. Mara\u00fa is an indigenous word meaning the \"sun's light at daybreak\". Even more spectacular though is the light at the rising of the full moon. Here the moon seems nearer and larger than it should be, flooding the beach and tide pools in soft light. \u2022 Where to stay: Encanto da Lua, meaning The Moon's Enchantment, is just a short walk from the pools and ringside for the rising of the moon (standard doubles from R$ 230,00 (\u00a370) a night, including breakfast, dinner and transfers). Kiaroa Resort is one of Brazil's leading luxury beach resorts. Steven Chew, contributing editor Conde Nast TravellerThere's an adage with remote Brazilian beaches: first go the hippies, then the yachties, then the French ... Caraiva is still at the happy-hippy stage of discovery and even then only for a brief period in the summer. No motorised transport is possible in Caraiva so the sounds that prevail are the breeze in the high almond trees and the exhaling of a dozen mules that pull the little carts that are the only alternative to walking. The beach stretches uninterrupted for more than a day's walk in either direction - north as far as the much-hyped village of Trancoso and south to Corumbau. Golden sands lead down to the water where a firm surf pushes relentlessly against the shore and provides the soundtrack to the handful of idyllic beach bars. And then, of course, there are the goalposts that remind you that you are in Brazil.\u2022 Where to stay:  There are a few simple hotels on the beach and Fazenda Caraiva is a short boat ride up the Rio Caraiva.Gavin McOwan, Guardian TravelAt the end of Ipanema when the traffic curves round to Copacabana, pedestrians can carry on walking to Arpoador. A continuation of Ipanema beach, Arpoador ends with a tall rocky headline, an easy 60m climb, offering stunning views of the whole length of Ipanema, Leblon and the famous Dois Irm\u00e3os mountain. From the pavement wooden steps lead you down to the sandy beach, a favourite with surfers, body surfers and local bathers (most tourists stick to Ipanema or Copacabana). Arpoador is one of the few beaches which is lit up at night so a late night dip is also a possibility. End the day sipping a caipirinha and nibbling on a prawn pastel on one of the outdoor tables at the Azul Marinho restaurant, the only beachside restaurant in Arpoador and Ipanema, with a fantastic ocean view where you can also watch groups of local kids practicing capoeira and small bands of musicians.\u2022 Where to stay:  Ipanema Penthouse (three-bedroom flats from $250 a night, including maid service).Nadia Nightingale, Rio residentIlha Grande \u2013 big island \u2013 is home to Lopes Mendes, the beach of your dreams, a sweeping 3km of the whitest, finest sand that stretches out to a calm, crystal blue ocean. With not a building or restaurant in sight, Lopes Mendes is lined with palm and almond trees offering only a little shade. Bathers will need to take plenty of suntan lotion, snacks and a good book \u2013 although there are always a couple of drinks sellers peddling chilled beers. Getting there involves a three-hour bus journey from Rio to Angra dos Reis then a hop on the ferry to Ilha Grande. A scenic 40-minute boat trip takes you to Abra\u00e3o, the island's only town. Once in Abra\u00e3o take a small taxi-boat to Manges beach, the last boat stop before Lopes Mendes. Landing on the beach, walk up over a hill and then down through a small forest to the beach. As you walk out of the forest, the beach is right in front of you in all its glory.\u2022 Where to stay: Pousada So Natureza in Abra\u00e3o has a pool, air conditioning and is extremely friendly (Doubles from R$ 200,00 (\u00a362) a night including breakfast).includes breakfast .Simon Heyes, Latin American Travel AssociationHalfway between two of Latin America's biggest cities, Rio de Janeiro and S\u00e3o Paulo, but truly a world apart, lies one of Brazil's great natural jewels, where protected, heavily forested coastal mountains drop vertiginously into beaches and azure sea. Praia da Fazenda arcs effortlessly across the wide bay from the small, traditional fishing village of Picinguaba. Wade across the river \u2013 catch a flash of kingfisher green among the mangroves \u2013 and two miles of deserted beach lie ahead. To your right uninterrupted forest and mountains; on your left the bay, scattered palm topped islands and fish jumping. Things I love about this place: running at dawn you feel like the only person for a hundred miles; the cool, delicious natural spring at the far end; the gentle rise and shelter that provides a perfect spot for longboard surfing; and watching a school of dolphins from a kayak, and once even a whale!\u2022 Where to stay: Pousada Picinguaba, a charming pousada in a beautiful, natural setting (Standard doubles from \u20ac122.50 (\u00a3108) per person a night, incl breakfast and dinner). Further information on Picinguaba and Brazil at lata.org.Ariel Kostman, Metro newspaper, S\u00e3o PauloYou'll have to walk a fair way to arrive at his beach \u2013 but don't think of that as a punishment. For me, the path is the best part, as you pass waterfalls and walk in the shade of the Mata Atl\u00e2ntica, Brazil's dwindling virgin coastal forest. Half an hour before the end of the 15km walk you'll see the beach at Bonete: this is what Brazil must have looked like to the Portuguese when they first arrived over 500 years ago: just blue sea, golden sand and dense green forest. Finally, the beach: a half-mile strip of sand next to a river estuary, with good waves for surfing. There's a small community of fishermen who offer very simple accommodation, or you can camp (you should stay at least two days). To return to Sepituba, on Ilhabela, there are canoes and boats (US$30pp) unless you enjoy the walk as much as I do, and decide return on foot, too.  \u2022 Where to stay: If you want comfort, Canto Bravo. Further information: ilhabela.sp.gov.br.Caio Capela, Tucano House ownerFlorian\u00f3polis island has over 42 breathtaking beaches. Praia Mole, the most popular in the heart of \"Floripa\" and surrounded by green mountains, is where the young and beautiful head. But my favourite is Lagoinha do Leste, a deserted beach on the south of the island, an hour's hike away. It is one of the most beautiful beaches in Brazil, and backed by Atlantic rainforest, with dunes, sandbanks, a lake and rocky coastline. Perfect for camping (no campsite, pitch anywhere) or for a day trip. And after the track or boat ride back, you can finish the day eating at Arantes, the most popular seafood restaurant in Florianopolis. \u2022 Where to stay: Tucano House Backpackers (doubles from \u00a312 a night, dorms from \u00a39).", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Beach holidays", "Top 10s", "Travel", "Rio de Janeiro holidays"], "title": "Top 10 beaches in Brazil"},{"date": "2009-05-15T01:46:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian man accused of murdering and dismembering a London teenager last summer had a history of violence and drug use, a court heard today as his trial began in Goiania, in Brazil's mid-west.Mohammed D'Ali Carvalho dos Santos, 21, is accused of killing 17-year-old Cara Marie Burke after she threatened to tell his family about his involvement with drugs. After murdering her in his 13th floor apartment in the city, police say he dismembered the body in the bathroom before sending photos and boastful text messages to friends on his mobile phone.The torso of Burke, from Southfields, south-west London, was found dumped on a riverbank on the outskirts of Goiania inside a black suitcase on 29 July last year, four days after her murder. Police believe Dos Santos had hoped to marry her in order to obtain a British visa.Santos told the court he had been smoking crack cocaine for four days when Cara threatened to tell his mother he was spending all his money on drugs if he didn't give her an unspecified amount of cash. She also threatened to have a police officer confiscate his drugs.As she went into the living room to phone the officer, Santos said he started stabbing her with a knife that he had been using to cut up cocaine.\"I don't remember where I stabbed,\" Santos testified. \"I kept on stabbing away, not knowing where, and when I saw what I had done, she was dead.\"Santos said he then took a bath and went to an all-night party. On the way home he said he stopped at a supermarket and bought a larger knife so he could cut up her body.After arriving home, he put her body in a bathtub and severed her limbs and head, putting them in one suitcase and her torso in another, according to his testimony.A porter at his apartment building told the jury how he had seen Dos Santos dragging a large black bag out of the building the day after Cara's death.Jane Lucia Souza Oliveira, Dos Santos's aunt, told the court that the defendant's father had been murdered and dismembered when his son was two years old. Oliveira said her nephew had spent time in a young offenders' institute, had once carried a revolver, and had stabbed his brother after a row about which television programme they should watch.His girlfriend, Hellen Vitoria, 19, told the court Dos Santos was a \"caring\" man.His lawyers are expected to plead diminished responsibility, claiming \"he had been awake for four days\" after using 50 grams of cocaine each day.Speaking to the Guardian in his cramped prison cell days after Cara's death, Dos Santos said he did not remember killing her, but admitted having \"memories of cutting her up\". If convicted he could spend up to 30 years in jail.", "tags": ["Brazil", "UK news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil trial opens over London teenager's murder"},{"date": "2009-06-26T15:00:30Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's president Lula has approved a controversial law which grants land rights to squatters occupying land in the Amazon \u2014 campaigners fear it will result in a further increase in deforestation of the Amazon region.The law \u2013 known as \"provisional measure 458\" \u2013 is one of the most controversial environmental decisions of Lula's two terms in office, with the president coming under intense pressure from both environmental groups and the country's powerful agricultural lobby.\u00a0Marcelo Furtado, Greenpeace's campaigns manager in Brazil, said the approval of the law showed that Brazil's policy on global warming was contradictory: \"On one hand Brazil is setting targets for the reduction of carbon emissions and on the other it is opening up more areas for deforestation.\"Brazil's government says more than 1m people will benefit from the law, which covers 67.4m hectares of land, an area roughly the size of France. It believes the law will reduce violent conflicts by giving people private ownership of the land they live on, and will make it easier to track down those illegally felling trees.But environmentalists \u2013 who have dubbed it the \"land-grabbers bill\" \u2013 fear the new rules will offer a carte blanche for those wanting to make money by destroying the Amazon. They say the law effectively provides an amnesty for those who have devastated the Amazon over the last four decades. Around 20% of the Amazon has already been lost, according to environmental campaigners, and deforestation globally causes nearly a fifth of all greenhouse gas emissions.\"This measure perpetuates a 19th century practice [of Amazon destruction] instead of taking us towards a new 21st century strategy of sustainable development,\" said Furtado.Furtado said the law \u2013 originally intended to benefit impoverished farmers in the Amazon \u2013 had been \"hacked apart by the agricultural lobby\" and now benefited wealthy farmers rather than smaller landholders. The result, he said, was \"a law which will not help increase governance [or] social justice but which simply raises the risk of more deforestation.\"Under the new law, small landowners who can prove they occupied lands before December 2004 will be handed small pieces of land for free, while large areas will be sold off at knockdown rates. The government hopes this will help bring order to a region where land disputes often result in violent clashes and murder. Brazilian human rights group Justica Global, claims 772 activists and rural workers have been killed in the Amazon state of Para between 1971 and 2004.Human rights groups also criticised the law, saying unscrupulous Amazon ranchers, who often exploit slave labour, stood to gain from the new rules.Faced with a vocal campaign against the measure, Lula hit back, accusing \"the NGOS [of]\u2026 not telling the truth.\"In the decision, which came late on Thursday, Lula vetoed two of the most divisive sections of the bill \u2013 giving private businesses and absentee landowners the right to regularise their lands. But the Brazilian president gave the green light to one of the most controversial clauses, which will give new landowners the right to resell their properties after three years.", "tags": ["Deforestation", "Trees and forests", "Environment", "Brazil", "Farming", "Land rights", "Climate change", "Amazon rainforest", "Americas", "Squatting"], "title": "Brazil grants land rights to Amazon squatters"},{"date": "2009-08-25T16:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Last week's resignation from the Brazilian Workers party (PT) by Marina Silva, the country's former environment minister, is only the most high profile of the blows that President Lula's administration has just suffered.Silva resigned from the government itself last May after a series of disagreements with other ministers, including Lula's chief of staff and chosen successor, Dilma Rousseff. Quitting the party she has belonged to for more than 30 years clears the way for her candidacy in next year's presidential elections for the Greens. She is extremely unlikely to win this but she could fatally weaken Rousseff's own presidential bid.Rousseff has been gaining in the polls in recent months but still lags behind two potential candidates from PT's main rival the Brazilian Social Democratic Party (PSDB): Jos\u00e9 Serra, the current governor of S\u00e3o Paulo, and A\u00e9cio Neves, the governor of Minas Gerais.Lula is constitutionally required to step down after two terms in office, and PT is hoping that enough of his phenomenal personal popularity will rub off on Rousseff \u2013 who cuts a rather dour figure despite her history as a former guerrilla and political prisoner. He has called her the \"mother\" of his economic development programme and accompanies her constantly at meetings across the country. The Brazilian economy bounced out of recession fast and Lula's international stature is growing, so the strategy might work, but it has hit a number of bumps in the road in recent weeks.The biggest of these comes in the shape of the current president of the senate and former president of Brazil, Jos\u00e9 Sarney, who has been the target of repeated allegations of corruption, cronyism and family nepotism. Sarney, who the Economist recently described as a dinosaur, sums up what many Brazilians think is worst about their country's politicians. But his centrist Brazilian Democratic Movement party (PMDB) is a key component of the political alliance PT needs for its presidential campaign.Lula has exhorted his party to put the equivalent of a clothes peg on its nose and support Sarney. He is also pressing PT to make local pacts with PMDB, which often requires them to stand down their own candidates in places where they have a shot at winning seats. Much of the support that PT historically enjoyed was because of its reputation as a \"clean hands\" party, so the strategy is causing widespread internal unease.Last week matters came to a head in a Senate vote when PT's parliamentary leader threatened to quit if his party's representatives on a committee were forced to back Sarney, then didn't when they did. Silva was one of a number of people who resigned from the party in the aftermath of this debacle and many regard it as the worst split that PT has suffered since the mensal\u00e3o corruption crisis of its first term.Lula survived that incident and came back to win a second term, convincingly seeing off both the PSDB challenger and two former PT dissidents \u2013 from the party's middle-class intellectual wing \u2013 who ran against him. However, Silva represents a deeper and more emotional link with PT's roots. Born in an impoverished community of rubber tappers in the remote Amazon state, she was orphaned at 16 and was illiterate until her early teens. She joined PT along with Chico Mendes, the murdered trade unionist and environmental activist who is still venerated as a virtual saint within the party. She became Brazil's youngest ever female senator and won a string of international awards for her defence of the environment and its people. An evangelical Protestant who holds fundamentalist views on a number of social issues, she will nevertheless be a difficult candidate for PT to attack during the election and will pick up a large protest vote from many of its natural supporters.In the meantime, Rousseff's candidacy has been damaged by an as yet unproved allegation that she ordered a public employee to help cover up corruption allegations in the Sarney case. Her recent battle with cancer has won her public sympathy, but also raised concerns about whether she is strong enough for an arduous campaign \u2013 and the job itself. This week rumours began circulating that PT was considering a possible alternative candidate, Antonio Palocci, a former finance minister, who was forced to resign around the time of the mensalao scandal. Palocci is hoping to soon be officially cleared of any wrongdoing. He also has a base of support in S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil's largest state and the heartland of PSDB's Jose Serra. However, the fact that no one has yet been convicted in relation to this scandal \u2013 the biggest in Brazilian political history \u2013 makes its legacy potent and swapping candidates this late into the race could prove problematic.PT's basic difficulty is that the party has always been weaker than its charismatic leader. Lula's decision not to push for a constitutional amendment to allow him to run for another term, as has happened elsewhere in Latin America recently, has undoubtedly strengthened Brazil's still fledgling democracy. But the loss of Silva, who was its best known figure internationally after Lula himself, makes it even harder for the party to define what it still stands for.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil after Lula | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-08-25T16:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Last week's resignation from the Brazilian Workers party (PT) by Marina Silva, the country's former environment minister, is only the most high profile of the blows that President Lula's administration has just suffered.Silva resigned from the government itself last May after a series of disagreements with other ministers, including Lula's chief of staff and chosen successor, Dilma Rousseff. Quitting the party she has belonged to for more than 30 years clears the way for her candidacy in next year's presidential elections for the Greens. She is extremely unlikely to win this but she could fatally weaken Rousseff's own presidential bid.Rousseff has been gaining in the polls in recent months but still lags behind two potential candidates from PT's main rival the Brazilian Social Democratic Party (PSDB): Jos\u00e9 Serra, the current governor of S\u00e3o Paulo, and A\u00e9cio Neves, the governor of Minas Gerais.Lula is constitutionally required to step down after two terms in office, and PT is hoping that enough of his phenomenal personal popularity will rub off on Rousseff \u2013 who cuts a rather dour figure despite her history as a former guerrilla and political prisoner. He has called her the \"mother\" of his economic development programme and accompanies her constantly at meetings across the country. The Brazilian economy bounced out of recession fast and Lula's international stature is growing, so the strategy might work, but it has hit a number of bumps in the road in recent weeks.The biggest of these comes in the shape of the current president of the senate and former president of Brazil, Jos\u00e9 Sarney, who has been the target of repeated allegations of corruption, cronyism and family nepotism. Sarney, who the Economist recently described as a dinosaur, sums up what many Brazilians think is worst about their country's politicians. But his centrist Brazilian Democratic Movement party (PMDB) is a key component of the political alliance PT needs for its presidential campaign.Lula has exhorted his party to put the equivalent of a clothes peg on its nose and support Sarney. He is also pressing PT to make local pacts with PMDB, which often requires them to stand down their own candidates in places where they have a shot at winning seats. Much of the support that PT historically enjoyed was because of its reputation as a \"clean hands\" party, so the strategy is causing widespread internal unease.Last week matters came to a head in a Senate vote when PT's parliamentary leader threatened to quit if his party's representatives on a committee were forced to back Sarney, then didn't when they did. Silva was one of a number of people who resigned from the party in the aftermath of this debacle and many regard it as the worst split that PT has suffered since the mensal\u00e3o corruption crisis of its first term.Lula survived that incident and came back to win a second term, convincingly seeing off both the PSDB challenger and two former PT dissidents \u2013 from the party's middle-class intellectual wing \u2013 who ran against him. However, Silva represents a deeper and more emotional link with PT's roots. Born in an impoverished community of rubber tappers in the remote Amazon state, she was orphaned at 16 and was illiterate until her early teens. She joined PT along with Chico Mendes, the murdered trade unionist and environmental activist who is still venerated as a virtual saint within the party. She became Brazil's youngest ever female senator and won a string of international awards for her defence of the environment and its people. An evangelical Protestant who holds fundamentalist views on a number of social issues, she will nevertheless be a difficult candidate for PT to attack during the election and will pick up a large protest vote from many of its natural supporters.In the meantime, Rousseff's candidacy has been damaged by an as yet unproved allegation that she ordered a public employee to help cover up corruption allegations in the Sarney case. Her recent battle with cancer has won her public sympathy, but also raised concerns about whether she is strong enough for an arduous campaign \u2013 and the job itself. This week rumours began circulating that PT was considering a possible alternative candidate, Antonio Palocci, a former finance minister, who was forced to resign around the time of the mensalao scandal. Palocci is hoping to soon be officially cleared of any wrongdoing. He also has a base of support in S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil's largest state and the heartland of PSDB's Jose Serra. However, the fact that no one has yet been convicted in relation to this scandal \u2013 the biggest in Brazilian political history \u2013 makes its legacy potent and swapping candidates this late into the race could prove problematic.PT's basic difficulty is that the party has always been weaker than its charismatic leader. Lula's decision not to push for a constitutional amendment to allow him to run for another term, as has happened elsewhere in Latin America recently, has undoubtedly strengthened Brazil's still fledgling democracy. But the loss of Silva, who was its best known figure internationally after Lula himself, makes it even harder for the party to define what it still stands for.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil after Lula | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-08-18T09:18:09Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Two British law graduates accused of claiming they were robbed in Brazil to pocket an insurance payout are expected to learn their punishment this week.Shanti Andrews and Rebecca Turner, both 23, went on trial in Rio de Janeiro yesterday and admitted charges of attempted insurance fraud, according to local reports.Andrews told the court she and Turner, who both studied at the University of Sussex, had a laptop stolen during a tourist excursion to the south of the country, according to the Brazilian newspaper O\u00a0Globo. She admitted adding items that had not been stolen, including a purse, a mobile phone and a digital camera.The court heard from police who dealt with the students, with one officer saying his suspicions were raised by their quietness when they reported the losses, the paper said.The graduates' lawyer, Renato Tonini, previously said the likely punishment would be a fine or community service, although a prison sentence is a possibility.Andrews, from Frant, near Tunbridge Wells, in Kent, and Turner, from Woolton Hill, near Newbury, Berkshire, were arrested on 26 July after allegedly telling police that belongings totalling about \u00a31,000 were stolen during a bus journey during a nine-month world tour. They spent a week in custody before they were bailed to stay at a hotel in Rio.After their arrests, Andrews's mother, Simone Headley, said the two friends were traumatised and it had been a \"misunderstanding\" at the end of their trip.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "UK news", "Americas"], "title": "Britons admit Brazil insurance scam"},{"date": "2009-08-25T16:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Last week's resignation from the Brazilian Workers party (PT) by Marina Silva, the country's former environment minister, is only the most high profile of the blows that President Lula's administration has just suffered.Silva resigned from the government itself last May after a series of disagreements with other ministers, including Lula's chief of staff and chosen successor, Dilma Rousseff. Quitting the party she has belonged to for more than 30 years clears the way for her candidacy in next year's presidential elections for the Greens. She is extremely unlikely to win this but she could fatally weaken Rousseff's own presidential bid.Rousseff has been gaining in the polls in recent months but still lags behind two potential candidates from PT's main rival the Brazilian Social Democratic Party (PSDB): Jos\u00e9 Serra, the current governor of S\u00e3o Paulo, and A\u00e9cio Neves, the governor of Minas Gerais.Lula is constitutionally required to step down after two terms in office, and PT is hoping that enough of his phenomenal personal popularity will rub off on Rousseff \u2013 who cuts a rather dour figure despite her history as a former guerrilla and political prisoner. He has called her the \"mother\" of his economic development programme and accompanies her constantly at meetings across the country. The Brazilian economy bounced out of recession fast and Lula's international stature is growing, so the strategy might work, but it has hit a number of bumps in the road in recent weeks.The biggest of these comes in the shape of the current president of the senate and former president of Brazil, Jos\u00e9 Sarney, who has been the target of repeated allegations of corruption, cronyism and family nepotism. Sarney, who the Economist recently described as a dinosaur, sums up what many Brazilians think is worst about their country's politicians. But his centrist Brazilian Democratic Movement party (PMDB) is a key component of the political alliance PT needs for its presidential campaign.Lula has exhorted his party to put the equivalent of a clothes peg on its nose and support Sarney. He is also pressing PT to make local pacts with PMDB, which often requires them to stand down their own candidates in places where they have a shot at winning seats. Much of the support that PT historically enjoyed was because of its reputation as a \"clean hands\" party, so the strategy is causing widespread internal unease.Last week matters came to a head in a Senate vote when PT's parliamentary leader threatened to quit if his party's representatives on a committee were forced to back Sarney, then didn't when they did. Silva was one of a number of people who resigned from the party in the aftermath of this debacle and many regard it as the worst split that PT has suffered since the mensal\u00e3o corruption crisis of its first term.Lula survived that incident and came back to win a second term, convincingly seeing off both the PSDB challenger and two former PT dissidents \u2013 from the party's middle-class intellectual wing \u2013 who ran against him. However, Silva represents a deeper and more emotional link with PT's roots. Born in an impoverished community of rubber tappers in the remote Amazon state, she was orphaned at 16 and was illiterate until her early teens. She joined PT along with Chico Mendes, the murdered trade unionist and environmental activist who is still venerated as a virtual saint within the party. She became Brazil's youngest ever female senator and won a string of international awards for her defence of the environment and its people. An evangelical Protestant who holds fundamentalist views on a number of social issues, she will nevertheless be a difficult candidate for PT to attack during the election and will pick up a large protest vote from many of its natural supporters.In the meantime, Rousseff's candidacy has been damaged by an as yet unproved allegation that she ordered a public employee to help cover up corruption allegations in the Sarney case. Her recent battle with cancer has won her public sympathy, but also raised concerns about whether she is strong enough for an arduous campaign \u2013 and the job itself. This week rumours began circulating that PT was considering a possible alternative candidate, Antonio Palocci, a former finance minister, who was forced to resign around the time of the mensalao scandal. Palocci is hoping to soon be officially cleared of any wrongdoing. He also has a base of support in S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil's largest state and the heartland of PSDB's Jose Serra. However, the fact that no one has yet been convicted in relation to this scandal \u2013 the biggest in Brazilian political history \u2013 makes its legacy potent and swapping candidates this late into the race could prove problematic.PT's basic difficulty is that the party has always been weaker than its charismatic leader. Lula's decision not to push for a constitutional amendment to allow him to run for another term, as has happened elsewhere in Latin America recently, has undoubtedly strengthened Brazil's still fledgling democracy. But the loss of Silva, who was its best known figure internationally after Lula himself, makes it even harder for the party to define what it still stands for.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil after Lula | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-08-18T09:18:09Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Two British law graduates accused of claiming they were robbed in Brazil to pocket an insurance payout are expected to learn their punishment this week.Shanti Andrews and Rebecca Turner, both 23, went on trial in Rio de Janeiro yesterday and admitted charges of attempted insurance fraud, according to local reports.Andrews told the court she and Turner, who both studied at the University of Sussex, had a laptop stolen during a tourist excursion to the south of the country, according to the Brazilian newspaper O\u00a0Globo. She admitted adding items that had not been stolen, including a purse, a mobile phone and a digital camera.The court heard from police who dealt with the students, with one officer saying his suspicions were raised by their quietness when they reported the losses, the paper said.The graduates' lawyer, Renato Tonini, previously said the likely punishment would be a fine or community service, although a prison sentence is a possibility.Andrews, from Frant, near Tunbridge Wells, in Kent, and Turner, from Woolton Hill, near Newbury, Berkshire, were arrested on 26 July after allegedly telling police that belongings totalling about \u00a31,000 were stolen during a bus journey during a nine-month world tour. They spent a week in custody before they were bailed to stay at a hotel in Rio.After their arrests, Andrews's mother, Simone Headley, said the two friends were traumatised and it had been a \"misunderstanding\" at the end of their trip.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "UK news", "Americas"], "title": "Britons admit Brazil insurance scam"},{"date": "2009-08-02T13:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A study released recently in Brazil shows the tragic extent of violence in the country, despite the great social and economic advances it has achieved in the last two decades.The report states that violence will lead to the death of more than 33,000 12- to 18-year-olds between 2006 and 2013. It also says that for every 1,000 teenagers, 2.03 die every year as a result of violence. Young Brazilian men are 12 times more likely to die than women, and a young black teenager is almost three times more likely to die violently than a white one. In 2006, when the data was collected, homicides were the cause of 46% of the deaths of young Brazilians.Take the story of H\u00e9lio Jos\u00e9 da Silva Ezequiel, a black Brazilian. He was murdered in April 2007 when he was 25 years old, coming back from the hospital where he visited his seventh child, a girl, who had just been born. The police said Ezequiel was probably taken for a drug dealer by a rival gang which was trying to seize the neighbourhood. His sister Edna Ezequiel had, 43 days before H\u00e9lio's death, seen her 13-year-old daughter Alana killed by a stray bullet in the same area.Would curtailing the drug market have any significant effect on violence? Is it a matter of political will? What efforts are being made to confront poverty and its links to violence?All these issues can be understood by considering the gap between state and nation in Brazil. Despite the country's recent social and economic advances \u2013 especially after the fall of the military regime and the establishment of a democratic one \u2013 many Brazilians entered the 21st century without the basic benefits a state should provide.Young black people are dying in higher numbers not only because they are poorer than white people or don't have the same opportunities as them, but also because there is little policing in their communities, education and healthcare are poor and they don't even have their rights as citizens guaranteed by the justice system.Public institutions are way behind the private ones in quality. Public healthcare is, in general, catastrophic. To provide medical, hospital and ambulance services to the country's 180 million people, as the constitution requires, the federal healthcare system spends about $20bn per year. This is almost the same amount that the private sector spends to provide the same services to the 40 million people capable of paying the bills.There is no universal access to justice or even to the knowledge necessary to use the legal system. In 2008, for example, 70m cases passed through the Brazilian justice system but only 25m came to trial. Justice in Brazil is hard to access, slow and very expensive, even for the rich.In education, there has been a major improvement in the number of children going to school in the last few years. However, between 14 and 18 years old, the percentage of young people in education drops radically, to less than 50% by school leaving age. Public schools are so bad that they can't keep their students.Every year, there are 45,000 violent deaths in Brazil, 80% of which involve firearms. The police are violent (in the state of Rio de Janeiro alone, they kill more than 1,000 people per year, more than 65% of whom show clear signs of execution); seen as widely corrupt (from 2003 to 2007, 854 military police officers were arrested due to links with organised crime); and poorly organised. Since the responsibility for public security in Brazil lies with each state, the federal government avoids being part of a complex issue that entails more political costs than benefits.All over the country, public security institutions are fighting hard to prove they are not a general failure. This is all despite the fact that taxes in Brazil take 36% of income \u2013 as much as in New Zealand (36.5%), Germany (38%), or the United Kingdom (39%), more than in Australia (30.5%) and Switzerland (30.1%), and close to the OECD 2005 average of 36.2%.In a country where infrastructure, industrialisation and economic development have been in the hands of an elite that has always controlled the state, consumers have always been preferred to citizens. Former president Fernando Henrique Cardoso and current president Luis In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva have both started major changes, giving great importance to issues such as public education and healthcare, poverty and economic stability. But the challenges are such that it will take more than two presidents to complete this work.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Teenage deaths still haunt Brazil | Arthur Ituassu"},{"date": "2009-08-25T16:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Last week's resignation from the Brazilian Workers party (PT) by Marina Silva, the country's former environment minister, is only the most high profile of the blows that President Lula's administration has just suffered.Silva resigned from the government itself last May after a series of disagreements with other ministers, including Lula's chief of staff and chosen successor, Dilma Rousseff. Quitting the party she has belonged to for more than 30 years clears the way for her candidacy in next year's presidential elections for the Greens. She is extremely unlikely to win this but she could fatally weaken Rousseff's own presidential bid.Rousseff has been gaining in the polls in recent months but still lags behind two potential candidates from PT's main rival the Brazilian Social Democratic Party (PSDB): Jos\u00e9 Serra, the current governor of S\u00e3o Paulo, and A\u00e9cio Neves, the governor of Minas Gerais.Lula is constitutionally required to step down after two terms in office, and PT is hoping that enough of his phenomenal personal popularity will rub off on Rousseff \u2013 who cuts a rather dour figure despite her history as a former guerrilla and political prisoner. He has called her the \"mother\" of his economic development programme and accompanies her constantly at meetings across the country. The Brazilian economy bounced out of recession fast and Lula's international stature is growing, so the strategy might work, but it has hit a number of bumps in the road in recent weeks.The biggest of these comes in the shape of the current president of the senate and former president of Brazil, Jos\u00e9 Sarney, who has been the target of repeated allegations of corruption, cronyism and family nepotism. Sarney, who the Economist recently described as a dinosaur, sums up what many Brazilians think is worst about their country's politicians. But his centrist Brazilian Democratic Movement party (PMDB) is a key component of the political alliance PT needs for its presidential campaign.Lula has exhorted his party to put the equivalent of a clothes peg on its nose and support Sarney. He is also pressing PT to make local pacts with PMDB, which often requires them to stand down their own candidates in places where they have a shot at winning seats. Much of the support that PT historically enjoyed was because of its reputation as a \"clean hands\" party, so the strategy is causing widespread internal unease.Last week matters came to a head in a Senate vote when PT's parliamentary leader threatened to quit if his party's representatives on a committee were forced to back Sarney, then didn't when they did. Silva was one of a number of people who resigned from the party in the aftermath of this debacle and many regard it as the worst split that PT has suffered since the mensal\u00e3o corruption crisis of its first term.Lula survived that incident and came back to win a second term, convincingly seeing off both the PSDB challenger and two former PT dissidents \u2013 from the party's middle-class intellectual wing \u2013 who ran against him. However, Silva represents a deeper and more emotional link with PT's roots. Born in an impoverished community of rubber tappers in the remote Amazon state, she was orphaned at 16 and was illiterate until her early teens. She joined PT along with Chico Mendes, the murdered trade unionist and environmental activist who is still venerated as a virtual saint within the party. She became Brazil's youngest ever female senator and won a string of international awards for her defence of the environment and its people. An evangelical Protestant who holds fundamentalist views on a number of social issues, she will nevertheless be a difficult candidate for PT to attack during the election and will pick up a large protest vote from many of its natural supporters.In the meantime, Rousseff's candidacy has been damaged by an as yet unproved allegation that she ordered a public employee to help cover up corruption allegations in the Sarney case. Her recent battle with cancer has won her public sympathy, but also raised concerns about whether she is strong enough for an arduous campaign \u2013 and the job itself. This week rumours began circulating that PT was considering a possible alternative candidate, Antonio Palocci, a former finance minister, who was forced to resign around the time of the mensalao scandal. Palocci is hoping to soon be officially cleared of any wrongdoing. He also has a base of support in S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil's largest state and the heartland of PSDB's Jose Serra. However, the fact that no one has yet been convicted in relation to this scandal \u2013 the biggest in Brazilian political history \u2013 makes its legacy potent and swapping candidates this late into the race could prove problematic.PT's basic difficulty is that the party has always been weaker than its charismatic leader. Lula's decision not to push for a constitutional amendment to allow him to run for another term, as has happened elsewhere in Latin America recently, has undoubtedly strengthened Brazil's still fledgling democracy. But the loss of Silva, who was its best known figure internationally after Lula himself, makes it even harder for the party to define what it still stands for.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil after Lula | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-08-18T09:18:09Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Two British law graduates accused of claiming they were robbed in Brazil to pocket an insurance payout are expected to learn their punishment this week.Shanti Andrews and Rebecca Turner, both 23, went on trial in Rio de Janeiro yesterday and admitted charges of attempted insurance fraud, according to local reports.Andrews told the court she and Turner, who both studied at the University of Sussex, had a laptop stolen during a tourist excursion to the south of the country, according to the Brazilian newspaper O\u00a0Globo. She admitted adding items that had not been stolen, including a purse, a mobile phone and a digital camera.The court heard from police who dealt with the students, with one officer saying his suspicions were raised by their quietness when they reported the losses, the paper said.The graduates' lawyer, Renato Tonini, previously said the likely punishment would be a fine or community service, although a prison sentence is a possibility.Andrews, from Frant, near Tunbridge Wells, in Kent, and Turner, from Woolton Hill, near Newbury, Berkshire, were arrested on 26 July after allegedly telling police that belongings totalling about \u00a31,000 were stolen during a bus journey during a nine-month world tour. They spent a week in custody before they were bailed to stay at a hotel in Rio.After their arrests, Andrews's mother, Simone Headley, said the two friends were traumatised and it had been a \"misunderstanding\" at the end of their trip.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "UK news", "Americas"], "title": "Britons admit Brazil insurance scam"},{"date": "2009-08-02T13:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A study released recently in Brazil shows the tragic extent of violence in the country, despite the great social and economic advances it has achieved in the last two decades.The report states that violence will lead to the death of more than 33,000 12- to 18-year-olds between 2006 and 2013. It also says that for every 1,000 teenagers, 2.03 die every year as a result of violence. Young Brazilian men are 12 times more likely to die than women, and a young black teenager is almost three times more likely to die violently than a white one. In 2006, when the data was collected, homicides were the cause of 46% of the deaths of young Brazilians.Take the story of H\u00e9lio Jos\u00e9 da Silva Ezequiel, a black Brazilian. He was murdered in April 2007 when he was 25 years old, coming back from the hospital where he visited his seventh child, a girl, who had just been born. The police said Ezequiel was probably taken for a drug dealer by a rival gang which was trying to seize the neighbourhood. His sister Edna Ezequiel had, 43 days before H\u00e9lio's death, seen her 13-year-old daughter Alana killed by a stray bullet in the same area.Would curtailing the drug market have any significant effect on violence? Is it a matter of political will? What efforts are being made to confront poverty and its links to violence?All these issues can be understood by considering the gap between state and nation in Brazil. Despite the country's recent social and economic advances \u2013 especially after the fall of the military regime and the establishment of a democratic one \u2013 many Brazilians entered the 21st century without the basic benefits a state should provide.Young black people are dying in higher numbers not only because they are poorer than white people or don't have the same opportunities as them, but also because there is little policing in their communities, education and healthcare are poor and they don't even have their rights as citizens guaranteed by the justice system.Public institutions are way behind the private ones in quality. Public healthcare is, in general, catastrophic. To provide medical, hospital and ambulance services to the country's 180 million people, as the constitution requires, the federal healthcare system spends about $20bn per year. This is almost the same amount that the private sector spends to provide the same services to the 40 million people capable of paying the bills.There is no universal access to justice or even to the knowledge necessary to use the legal system. In 2008, for example, 70m cases passed through the Brazilian justice system but only 25m came to trial. Justice in Brazil is hard to access, slow and very expensive, even for the rich.In education, there has been a major improvement in the number of children going to school in the last few years. However, between 14 and 18 years old, the percentage of young people in education drops radically, to less than 50% by school leaving age. Public schools are so bad that they can't keep their students.Every year, there are 45,000 violent deaths in Brazil, 80% of which involve firearms. The police are violent (in the state of Rio de Janeiro alone, they kill more than 1,000 people per year, more than 65% of whom show clear signs of execution); seen as widely corrupt (from 2003 to 2007, 854 military police officers were arrested due to links with organised crime); and poorly organised. Since the responsibility for public security in Brazil lies with each state, the federal government avoids being part of a complex issue that entails more political costs than benefits.All over the country, public security institutions are fighting hard to prove they are not a general failure. This is all despite the fact that taxes in Brazil take 36% of income \u2013 as much as in New Zealand (36.5%), Germany (38%), or the United Kingdom (39%), more than in Australia (30.5%) and Switzerland (30.1%), and close to the OECD 2005 average of 36.2%.In a country where infrastructure, industrialisation and economic development have been in the hands of an elite that has always controlled the state, consumers have always been preferred to citizens. Former president Fernando Henrique Cardoso and current president Luis In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva have both started major changes, giving great importance to issues such as public education and healthcare, poverty and economic stability. But the challenges are such that it will take more than two presidents to complete this work.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Teenage deaths still haunt Brazil | Arthur Ituassu"},{"date": "2009-08-18T08:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Our village's patron saint is venerated all over Brazil and every year thousands of pilgrims flock to this tiny seaside resort for a fortnight's celebration. Along with daily religious masses that wake up everyone with firecrackers at 5am, a lot of sun-block cream is expended and a great quantity of beer is drunk in the bars.It all ends when the statue of Nossa Senhora d'Ajuda (our Lady of Help) is paraded through the streets accompanied by the crowds and a brass band. The local politicos usually vie with each other to help carry the image \u2013 either to gain kudos or for good old-fashioned publicity. There's a travelling fair on the village field and roundabouts and rides and things we rarely see.But just as in Chaucer's Britain, the pilgrimage has its sinister side. The devotees are nearly always accompanied by hordes of ladr\u00f5es, malandros and what the Brazilian police call meliantes \u2013 thieves, rogues and vagabonds.They rob houses, hotels \u2013 and there are occasional cases of assault on the roads and beaches. The general advice is not to resist a thief armed with a gun or a knife. But human nature is stronger than logic \u2013 and there's some satisfaction in giving a good punch to a robber even if he secures some modest bounty.And that is why, as he bandaged up a broken bone on my finger, the doctor firmly admonished me to not to try fighting any more ladr\u00f5es \u2013 and certainly not for the next four weeks.My puppy, running free on the beach, had hurtled off in the direction of two guys who gave her some bread. Then as we walked along the footpath to the road, one produced a knife and demanded money. The other was rifling my pockets and I fear I couldn't resist taking a swing at him. I can only hope I did as much damage to him as I suffered. They ran off clutching my ageing camera \u2013 a haul that would be exchanged for the night's drugs.So I'm in the doghouse for taking an unnecessary risk and the dog's there, too, for accepting food from strangers.But a world full of ladr\u00e3os still has its magical moments. And I found one as I was returning home on the ferry. The full moon was casting brilliant reflections on the boat's wake and I still thought that it seems like Paradise here. The vision may have been a bit rose-tinted as I was sipping a beer, but I hope not \u2013 it was only the first can!", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil: paradise - except for the odd mugging"},{"date": "2009-08-25T16:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Last week's resignation from the Brazilian Workers party (PT) by Marina Silva, the country's former environment minister, is only the most high profile of the blows that President Lula's administration has just suffered.Silva resigned from the government itself last May after a series of disagreements with other ministers, including Lula's chief of staff and chosen successor, Dilma Rousseff. Quitting the party she has belonged to for more than 30 years clears the way for her candidacy in next year's presidential elections for the Greens. She is extremely unlikely to win this but she could fatally weaken Rousseff's own presidential bid.Rousseff has been gaining in the polls in recent months but still lags behind two potential candidates from PT's main rival the Brazilian Social Democratic Party (PSDB): Jos\u00e9 Serra, the current governor of S\u00e3o Paulo, and A\u00e9cio Neves, the governor of Minas Gerais.Lula is constitutionally required to step down after two terms in office, and PT is hoping that enough of his phenomenal personal popularity will rub off on Rousseff \u2013 who cuts a rather dour figure despite her history as a former guerrilla and political prisoner. He has called her the \"mother\" of his economic development programme and accompanies her constantly at meetings across the country. The Brazilian economy bounced out of recession fast and Lula's international stature is growing, so the strategy might work, but it has hit a number of bumps in the road in recent weeks.The biggest of these comes in the shape of the current president of the senate and former president of Brazil, Jos\u00e9 Sarney, who has been the target of repeated allegations of corruption, cronyism and family nepotism. Sarney, who the Economist recently described as a dinosaur, sums up what many Brazilians think is worst about their country's politicians. But his centrist Brazilian Democratic Movement party (PMDB) is a key component of the political alliance PT needs for its presidential campaign.Lula has exhorted his party to put the equivalent of a clothes peg on its nose and support Sarney. He is also pressing PT to make local pacts with PMDB, which often requires them to stand down their own candidates in places where they have a shot at winning seats. Much of the support that PT historically enjoyed was because of its reputation as a \"clean hands\" party, so the strategy is causing widespread internal unease.Last week matters came to a head in a Senate vote when PT's parliamentary leader threatened to quit if his party's representatives on a committee were forced to back Sarney, then didn't when they did. Silva was one of a number of people who resigned from the party in the aftermath of this debacle and many regard it as the worst split that PT has suffered since the mensal\u00e3o corruption crisis of its first term.Lula survived that incident and came back to win a second term, convincingly seeing off both the PSDB challenger and two former PT dissidents \u2013 from the party's middle-class intellectual wing \u2013 who ran against him. However, Silva represents a deeper and more emotional link with PT's roots. Born in an impoverished community of rubber tappers in the remote Amazon state, she was orphaned at 16 and was illiterate until her early teens. She joined PT along with Chico Mendes, the murdered trade unionist and environmental activist who is still venerated as a virtual saint within the party. She became Brazil's youngest ever female senator and won a string of international awards for her defence of the environment and its people. An evangelical Protestant who holds fundamentalist views on a number of social issues, she will nevertheless be a difficult candidate for PT to attack during the election and will pick up a large protest vote from many of its natural supporters.In the meantime, Rousseff's candidacy has been damaged by an as yet unproved allegation that she ordered a public employee to help cover up corruption allegations in the Sarney case. Her recent battle with cancer has won her public sympathy, but also raised concerns about whether she is strong enough for an arduous campaign \u2013 and the job itself. This week rumours began circulating that PT was considering a possible alternative candidate, Antonio Palocci, a former finance minister, who was forced to resign around the time of the mensalao scandal. Palocci is hoping to soon be officially cleared of any wrongdoing. He also has a base of support in S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil's largest state and the heartland of PSDB's Jose Serra. However, the fact that no one has yet been convicted in relation to this scandal \u2013 the biggest in Brazilian political history \u2013 makes its legacy potent and swapping candidates this late into the race could prove problematic.PT's basic difficulty is that the party has always been weaker than its charismatic leader. Lula's decision not to push for a constitutional amendment to allow him to run for another term, as has happened elsewhere in Latin America recently, has undoubtedly strengthened Brazil's still fledgling democracy. But the loss of Silva, who was its best known figure internationally after Lula himself, makes it even harder for the party to define what it still stands for.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil after Lula | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-08-18T09:18:09Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Two British law graduates accused of claiming they were robbed in Brazil to pocket an insurance payout are expected to learn their punishment this week.Shanti Andrews and Rebecca Turner, both 23, went on trial in Rio de Janeiro yesterday and admitted charges of attempted insurance fraud, according to local reports.Andrews told the court she and Turner, who both studied at the University of Sussex, had a laptop stolen during a tourist excursion to the south of the country, according to the Brazilian newspaper O\u00a0Globo. She admitted adding items that had not been stolen, including a purse, a mobile phone and a digital camera.The court heard from police who dealt with the students, with one officer saying his suspicions were raised by their quietness when they reported the losses, the paper said.The graduates' lawyer, Renato Tonini, previously said the likely punishment would be a fine or community service, although a prison sentence is a possibility.Andrews, from Frant, near Tunbridge Wells, in Kent, and Turner, from Woolton Hill, near Newbury, Berkshire, were arrested on 26 July after allegedly telling police that belongings totalling about \u00a31,000 were stolen during a bus journey during a nine-month world tour. They spent a week in custody before they were bailed to stay at a hotel in Rio.After their arrests, Andrews's mother, Simone Headley, said the two friends were traumatised and it had been a \"misunderstanding\" at the end of their trip.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "UK news", "Americas"], "title": "Britons admit Brazil insurance scam"},{"date": "2009-08-02T13:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A study released recently in Brazil shows the tragic extent of violence in the country, despite the great social and economic advances it has achieved in the last two decades.The report states that violence will lead to the death of more than 33,000 12- to 18-year-olds between 2006 and 2013. It also says that for every 1,000 teenagers, 2.03 die every year as a result of violence. Young Brazilian men are 12 times more likely to die than women, and a young black teenager is almost three times more likely to die violently than a white one. In 2006, when the data was collected, homicides were the cause of 46% of the deaths of young Brazilians.Take the story of H\u00e9lio Jos\u00e9 da Silva Ezequiel, a black Brazilian. He was murdered in April 2007 when he was 25 years old, coming back from the hospital where he visited his seventh child, a girl, who had just been born. The police said Ezequiel was probably taken for a drug dealer by a rival gang which was trying to seize the neighbourhood. His sister Edna Ezequiel had, 43 days before H\u00e9lio's death, seen her 13-year-old daughter Alana killed by a stray bullet in the same area.Would curtailing the drug market have any significant effect on violence? Is it a matter of political will? What efforts are being made to confront poverty and its links to violence?All these issues can be understood by considering the gap between state and nation in Brazil. Despite the country's recent social and economic advances \u2013 especially after the fall of the military regime and the establishment of a democratic one \u2013 many Brazilians entered the 21st century without the basic benefits a state should provide.Young black people are dying in higher numbers not only because they are poorer than white people or don't have the same opportunities as them, but also because there is little policing in their communities, education and healthcare are poor and they don't even have their rights as citizens guaranteed by the justice system.Public institutions are way behind the private ones in quality. Public healthcare is, in general, catastrophic. To provide medical, hospital and ambulance services to the country's 180 million people, as the constitution requires, the federal healthcare system spends about $20bn per year. This is almost the same amount that the private sector spends to provide the same services to the 40 million people capable of paying the bills.There is no universal access to justice or even to the knowledge necessary to use the legal system. In 2008, for example, 70m cases passed through the Brazilian justice system but only 25m came to trial. Justice in Brazil is hard to access, slow and very expensive, even for the rich.In education, there has been a major improvement in the number of children going to school in the last few years. However, between 14 and 18 years old, the percentage of young people in education drops radically, to less than 50% by school leaving age. Public schools are so bad that they can't keep their students.Every year, there are 45,000 violent deaths in Brazil, 80% of which involve firearms. The police are violent (in the state of Rio de Janeiro alone, they kill more than 1,000 people per year, more than 65% of whom show clear signs of execution); seen as widely corrupt (from 2003 to 2007, 854 military police officers were arrested due to links with organised crime); and poorly organised. Since the responsibility for public security in Brazil lies with each state, the federal government avoids being part of a complex issue that entails more political costs than benefits.All over the country, public security institutions are fighting hard to prove they are not a general failure. This is all despite the fact that taxes in Brazil take 36% of income \u2013 as much as in New Zealand (36.5%), Germany (38%), or the United Kingdom (39%), more than in Australia (30.5%) and Switzerland (30.1%), and close to the OECD 2005 average of 36.2%.In a country where infrastructure, industrialisation and economic development have been in the hands of an elite that has always controlled the state, consumers have always been preferred to citizens. Former president Fernando Henrique Cardoso and current president Luis In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva have both started major changes, giving great importance to issues such as public education and healthcare, poverty and economic stability. But the challenges are such that it will take more than two presidents to complete this work.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Teenage deaths still haunt Brazil | Arthur Ituassu"},{"date": "2009-08-18T08:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Our village's patron saint is venerated all over Brazil and every year thousands of pilgrims flock to this tiny seaside resort for a fortnight's celebration. Along with daily religious masses that wake up everyone with firecrackers at 5am, a lot of sun-block cream is expended and a great quantity of beer is drunk in the bars.It all ends when the statue of Nossa Senhora d'Ajuda (our Lady of Help) is paraded through the streets accompanied by the crowds and a brass band. The local politicos usually vie with each other to help carry the image \u2013 either to gain kudos or for good old-fashioned publicity. There's a travelling fair on the village field and roundabouts and rides and things we rarely see.But just as in Chaucer's Britain, the pilgrimage has its sinister side. The devotees are nearly always accompanied by hordes of ladr\u00f5es, malandros and what the Brazilian police call meliantes \u2013 thieves, rogues and vagabonds.They rob houses, hotels \u2013 and there are occasional cases of assault on the roads and beaches. The general advice is not to resist a thief armed with a gun or a knife. But human nature is stronger than logic \u2013 and there's some satisfaction in giving a good punch to a robber even if he secures some modest bounty.And that is why, as he bandaged up a broken bone on my finger, the doctor firmly admonished me to not to try fighting any more ladr\u00f5es \u2013 and certainly not for the next four weeks.My puppy, running free on the beach, had hurtled off in the direction of two guys who gave her some bread. Then as we walked along the footpath to the road, one produced a knife and demanded money. The other was rifling my pockets and I fear I couldn't resist taking a swing at him. I can only hope I did as much damage to him as I suffered. They ran off clutching my ageing camera \u2013 a haul that would be exchanged for the night's drugs.So I'm in the doghouse for taking an unnecessary risk and the dog's there, too, for accepting food from strangers.But a world full of ladr\u00e3os still has its magical moments. And I found one as I was returning home on the ferry. The full moon was casting brilliant reflections on the boat's wake and I still thought that it seems like Paradise here. The vision may have been a bit rose-tinted as I was sipping a beer, but I hope not \u2013 it was only the first can!", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil: paradise - except for the odd mugging"},{"date": "2009-09-22T04:46:27Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's president today asked Manuel Zelaya, the deposed president of Honduras, not to provide a pretext for coup leaders to invade the Brazilian embassy, where he has been holed up since his return to the country yesterday.President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva said he spoke with Zelaya by telephone this morning, as Honduran authorities moved to break up demonstrations outside the embassy in the Honduran capital, Tegucigalpa.Thousands of Zelaya supporters defied a curfew set by the interim government to celebrate his surprise return.The deposed leader sneaked back into the central American country \u2013 apparently travelling in a car boot and a tractor, among other means \u2013 and vowed from the sanctuary of the embassy to retake power.\"I want to tell you I am committed to the Honduran people and I am not going to rest one day, one minute, until the dictatorship is toppled,\" he told hundreds of cheering, chanting supporters.The interim authorities, who initially denied Zelaya was back, ordered a nationwide lockdown and told Brazil to hand over its guest to stand trial for treason and corruption, charges levelled against him after he was forced into exile.In a televised address the interim president, Roberto Micheletti, said Brazil would be held responsible for any violence. \"A call to the government of Brazil: respect the judicial order against Mr Zelaya and turn him in to Honduran authorities. The eyes of the world are on Brazil and Honduras.\"Brazil's foreign minister, Celso Amorim, warned that any action against the president or the diplomatic compound would violate international law.Zelaya has promised to use peaceful means, but with the country deeply polarised violence could flare. Sporadic clashes since the 28 June coup between security forces and the exiled leader's supporters left dozens injured and at least two dead.Zelaya's return opened a new, volatile phase in a crisis that has divided Hondurans and confronted central America with its gravest diplomatic dispute since the cold war. The homecoming is a gamble to regain the initiative \u2013 and spotlight \u2013 on the eve of this week's UN general assembly meeting in New York.The US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, urged both sides to talk. \"It's imperative that dialogue begin ... [that] there be a channel of communication between President Zelaya and the de facto regime.\"The interim rulers have been isolated internationally but until now had firm control of the country. Zelaya's return has galvanised his supporters. A powerful teachers union called a strike to demand his reinstatement.In addition to a curfew \"to preserve calm\" the authorities have shut airports and apparently cut power to several districts in Tegucigalpa.Since ousting Zelaya \u2013 soldiers roused him in his pyjamas at gunpoint and hustled him on to a plane \u2013 the interim regime has ruled out power-sharing with a man it deems a radical leftist.Venezuela's president, Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, celebrated his ally's return. \"It was a well-planned operation and it worked,\" he said. \"Zelaya deceived the coup mongers and went in the trunk of a car and even in a tractor.\"In a televised phone call from Zelaya, Ch\u00e1vez added: \"The coup mongers should surrender power peacefully. I congratulate you for your heroic act and the Latin American people admire you.\"Zelaya, giving back-to-back media interviews, told al-Jazeera television he dodged numerous obstacles during his journey. \"I had to avoid military checkpoints crossing very close to the mountains and sometimes through the valleys.\"He said he was committed to peaceful means and said elements of the army could put pressure on the interim government to negotiate a deal.The coup, a joint operation by the army, congress and the supreme court, sparked furious protests by Zelaya's supporters.Halfway through his term the rancher-turned-president, elected on a centrist platform, veered left and embraced Venezuela's socialist leader. The decision was popular with many in the slums but alarmed traditional elites, the middle class and conservative institutions.The crisis flared when he tried to hold a non-binding public consultation to ask people whether they supported moves to change the constitution. Opponents claimed it was a step towards extending Zelaya's rule and ousted him.The Obama administration, which has no love for the Ch\u00e1vez ally, joined condemnation of the coup, but held back from strong economic sanctions.Crisis talks in Costa Rica, hosted by President Oscar Arias, broke down without agreement. The strategy of the interim government was to ride out the diplomatic storm until elections in November installed a new leader.", "tags": ["Honduras", "Brazil", "Hugo Ch\u00e1vez", "Venezuela", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil urges Manuel Zelaya not to provoke Honduras coup leaders"},{"date": "2009-08-25T16:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Last week's resignation from the Brazilian Workers party (PT) by Marina Silva, the country's former environment minister, is only the most high profile of the blows that President Lula's administration has just suffered.Silva resigned from the government itself last May after a series of disagreements with other ministers, including Lula's chief of staff and chosen successor, Dilma Rousseff. Quitting the party she has belonged to for more than 30 years clears the way for her candidacy in next year's presidential elections for the Greens. She is extremely unlikely to win this but she could fatally weaken Rousseff's own presidential bid.Rousseff has been gaining in the polls in recent months but still lags behind two potential candidates from PT's main rival the Brazilian Social Democratic Party (PSDB): Jos\u00e9 Serra, the current governor of S\u00e3o Paulo, and A\u00e9cio Neves, the governor of Minas Gerais.Lula is constitutionally required to step down after two terms in office, and PT is hoping that enough of his phenomenal personal popularity will rub off on Rousseff \u2013 who cuts a rather dour figure despite her history as a former guerrilla and political prisoner. He has called her the \"mother\" of his economic development programme and accompanies her constantly at meetings across the country. The Brazilian economy bounced out of recession fast and Lula's international stature is growing, so the strategy might work, but it has hit a number of bumps in the road in recent weeks.The biggest of these comes in the shape of the current president of the senate and former president of Brazil, Jos\u00e9 Sarney, who has been the target of repeated allegations of corruption, cronyism and family nepotism. Sarney, who the Economist recently described as a dinosaur, sums up what many Brazilians think is worst about their country's politicians. But his centrist Brazilian Democratic Movement party (PMDB) is a key component of the political alliance PT needs for its presidential campaign.Lula has exhorted his party to put the equivalent of a clothes peg on its nose and support Sarney. He is also pressing PT to make local pacts with PMDB, which often requires them to stand down their own candidates in places where they have a shot at winning seats. Much of the support that PT historically enjoyed was because of its reputation as a \"clean hands\" party, so the strategy is causing widespread internal unease.Last week matters came to a head in a Senate vote when PT's parliamentary leader threatened to quit if his party's representatives on a committee were forced to back Sarney, then didn't when they did. Silva was one of a number of people who resigned from the party in the aftermath of this debacle and many regard it as the worst split that PT has suffered since the mensal\u00e3o corruption crisis of its first term.Lula survived that incident and came back to win a second term, convincingly seeing off both the PSDB challenger and two former PT dissidents \u2013 from the party's middle-class intellectual wing \u2013 who ran against him. However, Silva represents a deeper and more emotional link with PT's roots. Born in an impoverished community of rubber tappers in the remote Amazon state, she was orphaned at 16 and was illiterate until her early teens. She joined PT along with Chico Mendes, the murdered trade unionist and environmental activist who is still venerated as a virtual saint within the party. She became Brazil's youngest ever female senator and won a string of international awards for her defence of the environment and its people. An evangelical Protestant who holds fundamentalist views on a number of social issues, she will nevertheless be a difficult candidate for PT to attack during the election and will pick up a large protest vote from many of its natural supporters.In the meantime, Rousseff's candidacy has been damaged by an as yet unproved allegation that she ordered a public employee to help cover up corruption allegations in the Sarney case. Her recent battle with cancer has won her public sympathy, but also raised concerns about whether she is strong enough for an arduous campaign \u2013 and the job itself. This week rumours began circulating that PT was considering a possible alternative candidate, Antonio Palocci, a former finance minister, who was forced to resign around the time of the mensalao scandal. Palocci is hoping to soon be officially cleared of any wrongdoing. He also has a base of support in S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil's largest state and the heartland of PSDB's Jose Serra. However, the fact that no one has yet been convicted in relation to this scandal \u2013 the biggest in Brazilian political history \u2013 makes its legacy potent and swapping candidates this late into the race could prove problematic.PT's basic difficulty is that the party has always been weaker than its charismatic leader. Lula's decision not to push for a constitutional amendment to allow him to run for another term, as has happened elsewhere in Latin America recently, has undoubtedly strengthened Brazil's still fledgling democracy. But the loss of Silva, who was its best known figure internationally after Lula himself, makes it even harder for the party to define what it still stands for.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil after Lula | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-08-18T09:18:09Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Two British law graduates accused of claiming they were robbed in Brazil to pocket an insurance payout are expected to learn their punishment this week.Shanti Andrews and Rebecca Turner, both 23, went on trial in Rio de Janeiro yesterday and admitted charges of attempted insurance fraud, according to local reports.Andrews told the court she and Turner, who both studied at the University of Sussex, had a laptop stolen during a tourist excursion to the south of the country, according to the Brazilian newspaper O\u00a0Globo. She admitted adding items that had not been stolen, including a purse, a mobile phone and a digital camera.The court heard from police who dealt with the students, with one officer saying his suspicions were raised by their quietness when they reported the losses, the paper said.The graduates' lawyer, Renato Tonini, previously said the likely punishment would be a fine or community service, although a prison sentence is a possibility.Andrews, from Frant, near Tunbridge Wells, in Kent, and Turner, from Woolton Hill, near Newbury, Berkshire, were arrested on 26 July after allegedly telling police that belongings totalling about \u00a31,000 were stolen during a bus journey during a nine-month world tour. They spent a week in custody before they were bailed to stay at a hotel in Rio.After their arrests, Andrews's mother, Simone Headley, said the two friends were traumatised and it had been a \"misunderstanding\" at the end of their trip.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "UK news", "Americas"], "title": "Britons admit Brazil insurance scam"},{"date": "2009-08-02T13:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A study released recently in Brazil shows the tragic extent of violence in the country, despite the great social and economic advances it has achieved in the last two decades.The report states that violence will lead to the death of more than 33,000 12- to 18-year-olds between 2006 and 2013. It also says that for every 1,000 teenagers, 2.03 die every year as a result of violence. Young Brazilian men are 12 times more likely to die than women, and a young black teenager is almost three times more likely to die violently than a white one. In 2006, when the data was collected, homicides were the cause of 46% of the deaths of young Brazilians.Take the story of H\u00e9lio Jos\u00e9 da Silva Ezequiel, a black Brazilian. He was murdered in April 2007 when he was 25 years old, coming back from the hospital where he visited his seventh child, a girl, who had just been born. The police said Ezequiel was probably taken for a drug dealer by a rival gang which was trying to seize the neighbourhood. His sister Edna Ezequiel had, 43 days before H\u00e9lio's death, seen her 13-year-old daughter Alana killed by a stray bullet in the same area.Would curtailing the drug market have any significant effect on violence? Is it a matter of political will? What efforts are being made to confront poverty and its links to violence?All these issues can be understood by considering the gap between state and nation in Brazil. Despite the country's recent social and economic advances \u2013 especially after the fall of the military regime and the establishment of a democratic one \u2013 many Brazilians entered the 21st century without the basic benefits a state should provide.Young black people are dying in higher numbers not only because they are poorer than white people or don't have the same opportunities as them, but also because there is little policing in their communities, education and healthcare are poor and they don't even have their rights as citizens guaranteed by the justice system.Public institutions are way behind the private ones in quality. Public healthcare is, in general, catastrophic. To provide medical, hospital and ambulance services to the country's 180 million people, as the constitution requires, the federal healthcare system spends about $20bn per year. This is almost the same amount that the private sector spends to provide the same services to the 40 million people capable of paying the bills.There is no universal access to justice or even to the knowledge necessary to use the legal system. In 2008, for example, 70m cases passed through the Brazilian justice system but only 25m came to trial. Justice in Brazil is hard to access, slow and very expensive, even for the rich.In education, there has been a major improvement in the number of children going to school in the last few years. However, between 14 and 18 years old, the percentage of young people in education drops radically, to less than 50% by school leaving age. Public schools are so bad that they can't keep their students.Every year, there are 45,000 violent deaths in Brazil, 80% of which involve firearms. The police are violent (in the state of Rio de Janeiro alone, they kill more than 1,000 people per year, more than 65% of whom show clear signs of execution); seen as widely corrupt (from 2003 to 2007, 854 military police officers were arrested due to links with organised crime); and poorly organised. Since the responsibility for public security in Brazil lies with each state, the federal government avoids being part of a complex issue that entails more political costs than benefits.All over the country, public security institutions are fighting hard to prove they are not a general failure. This is all despite the fact that taxes in Brazil take 36% of income \u2013 as much as in New Zealand (36.5%), Germany (38%), or the United Kingdom (39%), more than in Australia (30.5%) and Switzerland (30.1%), and close to the OECD 2005 average of 36.2%.In a country where infrastructure, industrialisation and economic development have been in the hands of an elite that has always controlled the state, consumers have always been preferred to citizens. Former president Fernando Henrique Cardoso and current president Luis In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva have both started major changes, giving great importance to issues such as public education and healthcare, poverty and economic stability. But the challenges are such that it will take more than two presidents to complete this work.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Teenage deaths still haunt Brazil | Arthur Ituassu"},{"date": "2009-08-18T08:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Our village's patron saint is venerated all over Brazil and every year thousands of pilgrims flock to this tiny seaside resort for a fortnight's celebration. Along with daily religious masses that wake up everyone with firecrackers at 5am, a lot of sun-block cream is expended and a great quantity of beer is drunk in the bars.It all ends when the statue of Nossa Senhora d'Ajuda (our Lady of Help) is paraded through the streets accompanied by the crowds and a brass band. The local politicos usually vie with each other to help carry the image \u2013 either to gain kudos or for good old-fashioned publicity. There's a travelling fair on the village field and roundabouts and rides and things we rarely see.But just as in Chaucer's Britain, the pilgrimage has its sinister side. The devotees are nearly always accompanied by hordes of ladr\u00f5es, malandros and what the Brazilian police call meliantes \u2013 thieves, rogues and vagabonds.They rob houses, hotels \u2013 and there are occasional cases of assault on the roads and beaches. The general advice is not to resist a thief armed with a gun or a knife. But human nature is stronger than logic \u2013 and there's some satisfaction in giving a good punch to a robber even if he secures some modest bounty.And that is why, as he bandaged up a broken bone on my finger, the doctor firmly admonished me to not to try fighting any more ladr\u00f5es \u2013 and certainly not for the next four weeks.My puppy, running free on the beach, had hurtled off in the direction of two guys who gave her some bread. Then as we walked along the footpath to the road, one produced a knife and demanded money. The other was rifling my pockets and I fear I couldn't resist taking a swing at him. I can only hope I did as much damage to him as I suffered. They ran off clutching my ageing camera \u2013 a haul that would be exchanged for the night's drugs.So I'm in the doghouse for taking an unnecessary risk and the dog's there, too, for accepting food from strangers.But a world full of ladr\u00e3os still has its magical moments. And I found one as I was returning home on the ferry. The full moon was casting brilliant reflections on the boat's wake and I still thought that it seems like Paradise here. The vision may have been a bit rose-tinted as I was sipping a beer, but I hope not \u2013 it was only the first can!", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil: paradise - except for the odd mugging"},{"date": "2009-09-22T04:46:27Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's president today asked Manuel Zelaya, the deposed president of Honduras, not to provide a pretext for coup leaders to invade the Brazilian embassy, where he has been holed up since his return to the country yesterday.President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva said he spoke with Zelaya by telephone this morning, as Honduran authorities moved to break up demonstrations outside the embassy in the Honduran capital, Tegucigalpa.Thousands of Zelaya supporters defied a curfew set by the interim government to celebrate his surprise return.The deposed leader sneaked back into the central American country \u2013 apparently travelling in a car boot and a tractor, among other means \u2013 and vowed from the sanctuary of the embassy to retake power.\"I want to tell you I am committed to the Honduran people and I am not going to rest one day, one minute, until the dictatorship is toppled,\" he told hundreds of cheering, chanting supporters.The interim authorities, who initially denied Zelaya was back, ordered a nationwide lockdown and told Brazil to hand over its guest to stand trial for treason and corruption, charges levelled against him after he was forced into exile.In a televised address the interim president, Roberto Micheletti, said Brazil would be held responsible for any violence. \"A call to the government of Brazil: respect the judicial order against Mr Zelaya and turn him in to Honduran authorities. The eyes of the world are on Brazil and Honduras.\"Brazil's foreign minister, Celso Amorim, warned that any action against the president or the diplomatic compound would violate international law.Zelaya has promised to use peaceful means, but with the country deeply polarised violence could flare. Sporadic clashes since the 28 June coup between security forces and the exiled leader's supporters left dozens injured and at least two dead.Zelaya's return opened a new, volatile phase in a crisis that has divided Hondurans and confronted central America with its gravest diplomatic dispute since the cold war. The homecoming is a gamble to regain the initiative \u2013 and spotlight \u2013 on the eve of this week's UN general assembly meeting in New York.The US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, urged both sides to talk. \"It's imperative that dialogue begin ... [that] there be a channel of communication between President Zelaya and the de facto regime.\"The interim rulers have been isolated internationally but until now had firm control of the country. Zelaya's return has galvanised his supporters. A powerful teachers union called a strike to demand his reinstatement.In addition to a curfew \"to preserve calm\" the authorities have shut airports and apparently cut power to several districts in Tegucigalpa.Since ousting Zelaya \u2013 soldiers roused him in his pyjamas at gunpoint and hustled him on to a plane \u2013 the interim regime has ruled out power-sharing with a man it deems a radical leftist.Venezuela's president, Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, celebrated his ally's return. \"It was a well-planned operation and it worked,\" he said. \"Zelaya deceived the coup mongers and went in the trunk of a car and even in a tractor.\"In a televised phone call from Zelaya, Ch\u00e1vez added: \"The coup mongers should surrender power peacefully. I congratulate you for your heroic act and the Latin American people admire you.\"Zelaya, giving back-to-back media interviews, told al-Jazeera television he dodged numerous obstacles during his journey. \"I had to avoid military checkpoints crossing very close to the mountains and sometimes through the valleys.\"He said he was committed to peaceful means and said elements of the army could put pressure on the interim government to negotiate a deal.The coup, a joint operation by the army, congress and the supreme court, sparked furious protests by Zelaya's supporters.Halfway through his term the rancher-turned-president, elected on a centrist platform, veered left and embraced Venezuela's socialist leader. The decision was popular with many in the slums but alarmed traditional elites, the middle class and conservative institutions.The crisis flared when he tried to hold a non-binding public consultation to ask people whether they supported moves to change the constitution. Opponents claimed it was a step towards extending Zelaya's rule and ousted him.The Obama administration, which has no love for the Ch\u00e1vez ally, joined condemnation of the coup, but held back from strong economic sanctions.Crisis talks in Costa Rica, hosted by President Oscar Arias, broke down without agreement. The strategy of the interim government was to ride out the diplomatic storm until elections in November installed a new leader.", "tags": ["Honduras", "Brazil", "Hugo Ch\u00e1vez", "Venezuela", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil urges Manuel Zelaya not to provoke Honduras coup leaders"},{"date": "2009-09-08T15:48:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "An Italian tourist arrested in Brazil after being accused of publicly molesting his eight-year-old daughter has been put under police guard in hospital after falling ill when a judge rejected his plea for bail.The 48-year-old entrepreneur, who has not been named, was arrested last Tuesday at a seaside resort in the north-eastern city of Fortaleza after bystanders told police he had been seen kissing and \"caressing\" the girl.However, Ivana Timb\u00f3, a superintendent in the city's taskforce combatting child sex tourism, said nothing in the daughter's initial statement suggested that she had been molested.If convicted, the tourist, from Guidonia, near Rome, could face a long spell in prison. New Brazilian laws, intended to crack down on child sex tourism, define \"libidinous acts\" with children under the age of 14 as rape, punishable with sentences of eight to 15 years.The Italian was rushed to hospital with high blood pressure on Sunday after a judge ruled he should remain in custody until police finished their initial investigation. Police are due to hear three further witnesses today.\"It was not a father-daughter situation,\" one witness told the television channel TV Verdes Mares, saying the man had touched his daughter in a \"hot\" manner.The girl's Brazilian mother, who reportedly met her husband 11 years ago while working as a waiter in Italy, denied any abuse. \"If something untoward had been going on, I would be on the side of my daughter,\" she told the government news agency Agencia Brasil.In an interview with local television she added: \"I think they got confused, they misunderstood it. With so many cases of sexual abuses, they saw a white, foreign man with a much darker [skinned] girl. They didn't try and inform themselves or find out who was who. They immediately thought it was a foreigner trying to pick up an eight-year-old girl.\" She blamed the accusations on \"prejudice\".Located in the impoverished north-eastern state of Cear\u00e1, Fortaleza, a seaside city of 2.4 million inhabitants, is a popular destination for European tourists and a notorious centre for sex tourism. Blessed with some of South America's most beautiful beaches, Cear\u00e1 is also one of the most deprived parts of Brazil, with one of the lowest development indexes in the country. Activists say thousands of European men go there each year in search of cheap sex, sometimes with minors, who use the money to support their families.Several European tour companies operate websites where visitors can fill in online forms \"ordering\" girls with whom they want to spend their holidays.A 2002 study of sex tourism in the region found that 78% of foreign visitors to Fortaleza were male, and 32% of cities in north-east Brazil had child prostitution networks, the highest rate in the country.Before being taken to hospital the Italian tourist, who was due to fly back to Italy last week, was reportedly being held in a cramped cell containing a mattress and a fan brought in by his family.Timb\u00f3 said the initial inquiry should be completed by Thursday.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Italy", "World news", "Travel", "Brazil holidays", "Europe", "Americas", "Sex tourism"], "title": "Tourist arrested in Brazil for kissing eight-year-old daughter"},{"date": "2009-08-25T16:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Last week's resignation from the Brazilian Workers party (PT) by Marina Silva, the country's former environment minister, is only the most high profile of the blows that President Lula's administration has just suffered.Silva resigned from the government itself last May after a series of disagreements with other ministers, including Lula's chief of staff and chosen successor, Dilma Rousseff. Quitting the party she has belonged to for more than 30 years clears the way for her candidacy in next year's presidential elections for the Greens. She is extremely unlikely to win this but she could fatally weaken Rousseff's own presidential bid.Rousseff has been gaining in the polls in recent months but still lags behind two potential candidates from PT's main rival the Brazilian Social Democratic Party (PSDB): Jos\u00e9 Serra, the current governor of S\u00e3o Paulo, and A\u00e9cio Neves, the governor of Minas Gerais.Lula is constitutionally required to step down after two terms in office, and PT is hoping that enough of his phenomenal personal popularity will rub off on Rousseff \u2013 who cuts a rather dour figure despite her history as a former guerrilla and political prisoner. He has called her the \"mother\" of his economic development programme and accompanies her constantly at meetings across the country. The Brazilian economy bounced out of recession fast and Lula's international stature is growing, so the strategy might work, but it has hit a number of bumps in the road in recent weeks.The biggest of these comes in the shape of the current president of the senate and former president of Brazil, Jos\u00e9 Sarney, who has been the target of repeated allegations of corruption, cronyism and family nepotism. Sarney, who the Economist recently described as a dinosaur, sums up what many Brazilians think is worst about their country's politicians. But his centrist Brazilian Democratic Movement party (PMDB) is a key component of the political alliance PT needs for its presidential campaign.Lula has exhorted his party to put the equivalent of a clothes peg on its nose and support Sarney. He is also pressing PT to make local pacts with PMDB, which often requires them to stand down their own candidates in places where they have a shot at winning seats. Much of the support that PT historically enjoyed was because of its reputation as a \"clean hands\" party, so the strategy is causing widespread internal unease.Last week matters came to a head in a Senate vote when PT's parliamentary leader threatened to quit if his party's representatives on a committee were forced to back Sarney, then didn't when they did. Silva was one of a number of people who resigned from the party in the aftermath of this debacle and many regard it as the worst split that PT has suffered since the mensal\u00e3o corruption crisis of its first term.Lula survived that incident and came back to win a second term, convincingly seeing off both the PSDB challenger and two former PT dissidents \u2013 from the party's middle-class intellectual wing \u2013 who ran against him. However, Silva represents a deeper and more emotional link with PT's roots. Born in an impoverished community of rubber tappers in the remote Amazon state, she was orphaned at 16 and was illiterate until her early teens. She joined PT along with Chico Mendes, the murdered trade unionist and environmental activist who is still venerated as a virtual saint within the party. She became Brazil's youngest ever female senator and won a string of international awards for her defence of the environment and its people. An evangelical Protestant who holds fundamentalist views on a number of social issues, she will nevertheless be a difficult candidate for PT to attack during the election and will pick up a large protest vote from many of its natural supporters.In the meantime, Rousseff's candidacy has been damaged by an as yet unproved allegation that she ordered a public employee to help cover up corruption allegations in the Sarney case. Her recent battle with cancer has won her public sympathy, but also raised concerns about whether she is strong enough for an arduous campaign \u2013 and the job itself. This week rumours began circulating that PT was considering a possible alternative candidate, Antonio Palocci, a former finance minister, who was forced to resign around the time of the mensalao scandal. Palocci is hoping to soon be officially cleared of any wrongdoing. He also has a base of support in S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil's largest state and the heartland of PSDB's Jose Serra. However, the fact that no one has yet been convicted in relation to this scandal \u2013 the biggest in Brazilian political history \u2013 makes its legacy potent and swapping candidates this late into the race could prove problematic.PT's basic difficulty is that the party has always been weaker than its charismatic leader. Lula's decision not to push for a constitutional amendment to allow him to run for another term, as has happened elsewhere in Latin America recently, has undoubtedly strengthened Brazil's still fledgling democracy. But the loss of Silva, who was its best known figure internationally after Lula himself, makes it even harder for the party to define what it still stands for.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil after Lula | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-08-18T09:18:09Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Two British law graduates accused of claiming they were robbed in Brazil to pocket an insurance payout are expected to learn their punishment this week.Shanti Andrews and Rebecca Turner, both 23, went on trial in Rio de Janeiro yesterday and admitted charges of attempted insurance fraud, according to local reports.Andrews told the court she and Turner, who both studied at the University of Sussex, had a laptop stolen during a tourist excursion to the south of the country, according to the Brazilian newspaper O\u00a0Globo. She admitted adding items that had not been stolen, including a purse, a mobile phone and a digital camera.The court heard from police who dealt with the students, with one officer saying his suspicions were raised by their quietness when they reported the losses, the paper said.The graduates' lawyer, Renato Tonini, previously said the likely punishment would be a fine or community service, although a prison sentence is a possibility.Andrews, from Frant, near Tunbridge Wells, in Kent, and Turner, from Woolton Hill, near Newbury, Berkshire, were arrested on 26 July after allegedly telling police that belongings totalling about \u00a31,000 were stolen during a bus journey during a nine-month world tour. They spent a week in custody before they were bailed to stay at a hotel in Rio.After their arrests, Andrews's mother, Simone Headley, said the two friends were traumatised and it had been a \"misunderstanding\" at the end of their trip.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "UK news", "Americas"], "title": "Britons admit Brazil insurance scam"},{"date": "2009-08-02T13:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A study released recently in Brazil shows the tragic extent of violence in the country, despite the great social and economic advances it has achieved in the last two decades.The report states that violence will lead to the death of more than 33,000 12- to 18-year-olds between 2006 and 2013. It also says that for every 1,000 teenagers, 2.03 die every year as a result of violence. Young Brazilian men are 12 times more likely to die than women, and a young black teenager is almost three times more likely to die violently than a white one. In 2006, when the data was collected, homicides were the cause of 46% of the deaths of young Brazilians.Take the story of H\u00e9lio Jos\u00e9 da Silva Ezequiel, a black Brazilian. He was murdered in April 2007 when he was 25 years old, coming back from the hospital where he visited his seventh child, a girl, who had just been born. The police said Ezequiel was probably taken for a drug dealer by a rival gang which was trying to seize the neighbourhood. His sister Edna Ezequiel had, 43 days before H\u00e9lio's death, seen her 13-year-old daughter Alana killed by a stray bullet in the same area.Would curtailing the drug market have any significant effect on violence? Is it a matter of political will? What efforts are being made to confront poverty and its links to violence?All these issues can be understood by considering the gap between state and nation in Brazil. Despite the country's recent social and economic advances \u2013 especially after the fall of the military regime and the establishment of a democratic one \u2013 many Brazilians entered the 21st century without the basic benefits a state should provide.Young black people are dying in higher numbers not only because they are poorer than white people or don't have the same opportunities as them, but also because there is little policing in their communities, education and healthcare are poor and they don't even have their rights as citizens guaranteed by the justice system.Public institutions are way behind the private ones in quality. Public healthcare is, in general, catastrophic. To provide medical, hospital and ambulance services to the country's 180 million people, as the constitution requires, the federal healthcare system spends about $20bn per year. This is almost the same amount that the private sector spends to provide the same services to the 40 million people capable of paying the bills.There is no universal access to justice or even to the knowledge necessary to use the legal system. In 2008, for example, 70m cases passed through the Brazilian justice system but only 25m came to trial. Justice in Brazil is hard to access, slow and very expensive, even for the rich.In education, there has been a major improvement in the number of children going to school in the last few years. However, between 14 and 18 years old, the percentage of young people in education drops radically, to less than 50% by school leaving age. Public schools are so bad that they can't keep their students.Every year, there are 45,000 violent deaths in Brazil, 80% of which involve firearms. The police are violent (in the state of Rio de Janeiro alone, they kill more than 1,000 people per year, more than 65% of whom show clear signs of execution); seen as widely corrupt (from 2003 to 2007, 854 military police officers were arrested due to links with organised crime); and poorly organised. Since the responsibility for public security in Brazil lies with each state, the federal government avoids being part of a complex issue that entails more political costs than benefits.All over the country, public security institutions are fighting hard to prove they are not a general failure. This is all despite the fact that taxes in Brazil take 36% of income \u2013 as much as in New Zealand (36.5%), Germany (38%), or the United Kingdom (39%), more than in Australia (30.5%) and Switzerland (30.1%), and close to the OECD 2005 average of 36.2%.In a country where infrastructure, industrialisation and economic development have been in the hands of an elite that has always controlled the state, consumers have always been preferred to citizens. Former president Fernando Henrique Cardoso and current president Luis In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva have both started major changes, giving great importance to issues such as public education and healthcare, poverty and economic stability. But the challenges are such that it will take more than two presidents to complete this work.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Teenage deaths still haunt Brazil | Arthur Ituassu"},{"date": "2009-08-18T08:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Our village's patron saint is venerated all over Brazil and every year thousands of pilgrims flock to this tiny seaside resort for a fortnight's celebration. Along with daily religious masses that wake up everyone with firecrackers at 5am, a lot of sun-block cream is expended and a great quantity of beer is drunk in the bars.It all ends when the statue of Nossa Senhora d'Ajuda (our Lady of Help) is paraded through the streets accompanied by the crowds and a brass band. The local politicos usually vie with each other to help carry the image \u2013 either to gain kudos or for good old-fashioned publicity. There's a travelling fair on the village field and roundabouts and rides and things we rarely see.But just as in Chaucer's Britain, the pilgrimage has its sinister side. The devotees are nearly always accompanied by hordes of ladr\u00f5es, malandros and what the Brazilian police call meliantes \u2013 thieves, rogues and vagabonds.They rob houses, hotels \u2013 and there are occasional cases of assault on the roads and beaches. The general advice is not to resist a thief armed with a gun or a knife. But human nature is stronger than logic \u2013 and there's some satisfaction in giving a good punch to a robber even if he secures some modest bounty.And that is why, as he bandaged up a broken bone on my finger, the doctor firmly admonished me to not to try fighting any more ladr\u00f5es \u2013 and certainly not for the next four weeks.My puppy, running free on the beach, had hurtled off in the direction of two guys who gave her some bread. Then as we walked along the footpath to the road, one produced a knife and demanded money. The other was rifling my pockets and I fear I couldn't resist taking a swing at him. I can only hope I did as much damage to him as I suffered. They ran off clutching my ageing camera \u2013 a haul that would be exchanged for the night's drugs.So I'm in the doghouse for taking an unnecessary risk and the dog's there, too, for accepting food from strangers.But a world full of ladr\u00e3os still has its magical moments. And I found one as I was returning home on the ferry. The full moon was casting brilliant reflections on the boat's wake and I still thought that it seems like Paradise here. The vision may have been a bit rose-tinted as I was sipping a beer, but I hope not \u2013 it was only the first can!", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil: paradise - except for the odd mugging"},{"date": "2009-09-22T04:46:27Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's president today asked Manuel Zelaya, the deposed president of Honduras, not to provide a pretext for coup leaders to invade the Brazilian embassy, where he has been holed up since his return to the country yesterday.President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva said he spoke with Zelaya by telephone this morning, as Honduran authorities moved to break up demonstrations outside the embassy in the Honduran capital, Tegucigalpa.Thousands of Zelaya supporters defied a curfew set by the interim government to celebrate his surprise return.The deposed leader sneaked back into the central American country \u2013 apparently travelling in a car boot and a tractor, among other means \u2013 and vowed from the sanctuary of the embassy to retake power.\"I want to tell you I am committed to the Honduran people and I am not going to rest one day, one minute, until the dictatorship is toppled,\" he told hundreds of cheering, chanting supporters.The interim authorities, who initially denied Zelaya was back, ordered a nationwide lockdown and told Brazil to hand over its guest to stand trial for treason and corruption, charges levelled against him after he was forced into exile.In a televised address the interim president, Roberto Micheletti, said Brazil would be held responsible for any violence. \"A call to the government of Brazil: respect the judicial order against Mr Zelaya and turn him in to Honduran authorities. The eyes of the world are on Brazil and Honduras.\"Brazil's foreign minister, Celso Amorim, warned that any action against the president or the diplomatic compound would violate international law.Zelaya has promised to use peaceful means, but with the country deeply polarised violence could flare. Sporadic clashes since the 28 June coup between security forces and the exiled leader's supporters left dozens injured and at least two dead.Zelaya's return opened a new, volatile phase in a crisis that has divided Hondurans and confronted central America with its gravest diplomatic dispute since the cold war. The homecoming is a gamble to regain the initiative \u2013 and spotlight \u2013 on the eve of this week's UN general assembly meeting in New York.The US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, urged both sides to talk. \"It's imperative that dialogue begin ... [that] there be a channel of communication between President Zelaya and the de facto regime.\"The interim rulers have been isolated internationally but until now had firm control of the country. Zelaya's return has galvanised his supporters. A powerful teachers union called a strike to demand his reinstatement.In addition to a curfew \"to preserve calm\" the authorities have shut airports and apparently cut power to several districts in Tegucigalpa.Since ousting Zelaya \u2013 soldiers roused him in his pyjamas at gunpoint and hustled him on to a plane \u2013 the interim regime has ruled out power-sharing with a man it deems a radical leftist.Venezuela's president, Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, celebrated his ally's return. \"It was a well-planned operation and it worked,\" he said. \"Zelaya deceived the coup mongers and went in the trunk of a car and even in a tractor.\"In a televised phone call from Zelaya, Ch\u00e1vez added: \"The coup mongers should surrender power peacefully. I congratulate you for your heroic act and the Latin American people admire you.\"Zelaya, giving back-to-back media interviews, told al-Jazeera television he dodged numerous obstacles during his journey. \"I had to avoid military checkpoints crossing very close to the mountains and sometimes through the valleys.\"He said he was committed to peaceful means and said elements of the army could put pressure on the interim government to negotiate a deal.The coup, a joint operation by the army, congress and the supreme court, sparked furious protests by Zelaya's supporters.Halfway through his term the rancher-turned-president, elected on a centrist platform, veered left and embraced Venezuela's socialist leader. The decision was popular with many in the slums but alarmed traditional elites, the middle class and conservative institutions.The crisis flared when he tried to hold a non-binding public consultation to ask people whether they supported moves to change the constitution. Opponents claimed it was a step towards extending Zelaya's rule and ousted him.The Obama administration, which has no love for the Ch\u00e1vez ally, joined condemnation of the coup, but held back from strong economic sanctions.Crisis talks in Costa Rica, hosted by President Oscar Arias, broke down without agreement. The strategy of the interim government was to ride out the diplomatic storm until elections in November installed a new leader.", "tags": ["Honduras", "Brazil", "Hugo Ch\u00e1vez", "Venezuela", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil urges Manuel Zelaya not to provoke Honduras coup leaders"},{"date": "2009-09-08T15:48:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "An Italian tourist arrested in Brazil after being accused of publicly molesting his eight-year-old daughter has been put under police guard in hospital after falling ill when a judge rejected his plea for bail.The 48-year-old entrepreneur, who has not been named, was arrested last Tuesday at a seaside resort in the north-eastern city of Fortaleza after bystanders told police he had been seen kissing and \"caressing\" the girl.However, Ivana Timb\u00f3, a superintendent in the city's taskforce combatting child sex tourism, said nothing in the daughter's initial statement suggested that she had been molested.If convicted, the tourist, from Guidonia, near Rome, could face a long spell in prison. New Brazilian laws, intended to crack down on child sex tourism, define \"libidinous acts\" with children under the age of 14 as rape, punishable with sentences of eight to 15 years.The Italian was rushed to hospital with high blood pressure on Sunday after a judge ruled he should remain in custody until police finished their initial investigation. Police are due to hear three further witnesses today.\"It was not a father-daughter situation,\" one witness told the television channel TV Verdes Mares, saying the man had touched his daughter in a \"hot\" manner.The girl's Brazilian mother, who reportedly met her husband 11 years ago while working as a waiter in Italy, denied any abuse. \"If something untoward had been going on, I would be on the side of my daughter,\" she told the government news agency Agencia Brasil.In an interview with local television she added: \"I think they got confused, they misunderstood it. With so many cases of sexual abuses, they saw a white, foreign man with a much darker [skinned] girl. They didn't try and inform themselves or find out who was who. They immediately thought it was a foreigner trying to pick up an eight-year-old girl.\" She blamed the accusations on \"prejudice\".Located in the impoverished north-eastern state of Cear\u00e1, Fortaleza, a seaside city of 2.4 million inhabitants, is a popular destination for European tourists and a notorious centre for sex tourism. Blessed with some of South America's most beautiful beaches, Cear\u00e1 is also one of the most deprived parts of Brazil, with one of the lowest development indexes in the country. Activists say thousands of European men go there each year in search of cheap sex, sometimes with minors, who use the money to support their families.Several European tour companies operate websites where visitors can fill in online forms \"ordering\" girls with whom they want to spend their holidays.A 2002 study of sex tourism in the region found that 78% of foreign visitors to Fortaleza were male, and 32% of cities in north-east Brazil had child prostitution networks, the highest rate in the country.Before being taken to hospital the Italian tourist, who was due to fly back to Italy last week, was reportedly being held in a cramped cell containing a mattress and a fan brought in by his family.Timb\u00f3 said the initial inquiry should be completed by Thursday.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Italy", "World news", "Travel", "Brazil holidays", "Europe", "Americas", "Sex tourism"], "title": "Tourist arrested in Brazil for kissing eight-year-old daughter"},{"date": "2009-09-09T09:49:59Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A week after BP announced its \"giant\" oil discovery in the Gulf of Mexico, BG has been boosted by a find of its own.The company said the Guara field in the Santos basin off the coast of Brazil - where BG has a 30% stake and is partnered with Petrobras and Repsol - could contain up to 2bn barrels of oil equivalent. BG chief executive Frank Chapman said the Santos basin \"will make a very material contribution to the production and cash flow of BG Group for many years to come.\"The news has lifted BG shares 25p to \u00a310.80 and prompted some positive analyst comment. Seymour Pierce said:\"To put the scale of this discovery in context, the recent news of Tiber in the the Gulf of Mexico [the BP project] indicated that the modern definition of \"giant\" is 500m barrels or more. Repsol has labelled Guara a mega-Field. As important as the reserves, is the fact that the test programme showed that the formation is a prolific producer with a permanent production well capable of flowing up to 50,000 barrels a day.\"In terms of valuation, on an indicative basis we estimate that Guara is worth between 35p and 65p per share net to BG. The Santos Basin has been an outstanding success for BG. With drilling activity continuing on its acreage, we would expect further good news flow and reiterate our buy stance.\"Meanwhile Evolution Securities is also upbeat:\"Although BG has not previously given specific guidance today's announcement is slightly above our assumption of 1bn barrels of oil equivalent. Based on the new range we would estimates that Guara is worth between 30p and 60p net to BG.\"We suspect the market is still discounting both Brazil and Australia quite aggressively in BG and so keep our price target of \u00a314.50.\"The BG news and the announcement by Moody's that Britain is set to keep its triple A credit rating  have lifted the market from its early doldrums. The FTSE 100 is now up 19.42 points at 4966.76 with 5000 back in sight for the first time since last October.Meanwhile Lonmin is still leading the losers, down 52p to \u00a316.60 as Merrill Lynch played down the prospect of a bid from Xstrata, up 3p to 883p. Cutting its recommendation from buy to neutral after Lonmin's recent strong share price performance, Merrill said:\"Lonmin shares are rallying on speculation that Xstrata will return to bid for the remaining 75% it does not already own (a \"bolt on\" transaction) as the time limit on the takeover panel bid conditions is reached on October 2nd. While we don't discount this completely, neither do we view this as \"sure thing\". We believe Xstrata would still prefer a transformational merger with Anglo American.\"", "tags": ["BG", "Business", "Lonmin", "Xstrata"], "title": "BG boosted by major oil and gas find in Brazil"},{"date": "2009-08-25T16:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Last week's resignation from the Brazilian Workers party (PT) by Marina Silva, the country's former environment minister, is only the most high profile of the blows that President Lula's administration has just suffered.Silva resigned from the government itself last May after a series of disagreements with other ministers, including Lula's chief of staff and chosen successor, Dilma Rousseff. Quitting the party she has belonged to for more than 30 years clears the way for her candidacy in next year's presidential elections for the Greens. She is extremely unlikely to win this but she could fatally weaken Rousseff's own presidential bid.Rousseff has been gaining in the polls in recent months but still lags behind two potential candidates from PT's main rival the Brazilian Social Democratic Party (PSDB): Jos\u00e9 Serra, the current governor of S\u00e3o Paulo, and A\u00e9cio Neves, the governor of Minas Gerais.Lula is constitutionally required to step down after two terms in office, and PT is hoping that enough of his phenomenal personal popularity will rub off on Rousseff \u2013 who cuts a rather dour figure despite her history as a former guerrilla and political prisoner. He has called her the \"mother\" of his economic development programme and accompanies her constantly at meetings across the country. The Brazilian economy bounced out of recession fast and Lula's international stature is growing, so the strategy might work, but it has hit a number of bumps in the road in recent weeks.The biggest of these comes in the shape of the current president of the senate and former president of Brazil, Jos\u00e9 Sarney, who has been the target of repeated allegations of corruption, cronyism and family nepotism. Sarney, who the Economist recently described as a dinosaur, sums up what many Brazilians think is worst about their country's politicians. But his centrist Brazilian Democratic Movement party (PMDB) is a key component of the political alliance PT needs for its presidential campaign.Lula has exhorted his party to put the equivalent of a clothes peg on its nose and support Sarney. He is also pressing PT to make local pacts with PMDB, which often requires them to stand down their own candidates in places where they have a shot at winning seats. Much of the support that PT historically enjoyed was because of its reputation as a \"clean hands\" party, so the strategy is causing widespread internal unease.Last week matters came to a head in a Senate vote when PT's parliamentary leader threatened to quit if his party's representatives on a committee were forced to back Sarney, then didn't when they did. Silva was one of a number of people who resigned from the party in the aftermath of this debacle and many regard it as the worst split that PT has suffered since the mensal\u00e3o corruption crisis of its first term.Lula survived that incident and came back to win a second term, convincingly seeing off both the PSDB challenger and two former PT dissidents \u2013 from the party's middle-class intellectual wing \u2013 who ran against him. However, Silva represents a deeper and more emotional link with PT's roots. Born in an impoverished community of rubber tappers in the remote Amazon state, she was orphaned at 16 and was illiterate until her early teens. She joined PT along with Chico Mendes, the murdered trade unionist and environmental activist who is still venerated as a virtual saint within the party. She became Brazil's youngest ever female senator and won a string of international awards for her defence of the environment and its people. An evangelical Protestant who holds fundamentalist views on a number of social issues, she will nevertheless be a difficult candidate for PT to attack during the election and will pick up a large protest vote from many of its natural supporters.In the meantime, Rousseff's candidacy has been damaged by an as yet unproved allegation that she ordered a public employee to help cover up corruption allegations in the Sarney case. Her recent battle with cancer has won her public sympathy, but also raised concerns about whether she is strong enough for an arduous campaign \u2013 and the job itself. This week rumours began circulating that PT was considering a possible alternative candidate, Antonio Palocci, a former finance minister, who was forced to resign around the time of the mensalao scandal. Palocci is hoping to soon be officially cleared of any wrongdoing. He also has a base of support in S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil's largest state and the heartland of PSDB's Jose Serra. However, the fact that no one has yet been convicted in relation to this scandal \u2013 the biggest in Brazilian political history \u2013 makes its legacy potent and swapping candidates this late into the race could prove problematic.PT's basic difficulty is that the party has always been weaker than its charismatic leader. Lula's decision not to push for a constitutional amendment to allow him to run for another term, as has happened elsewhere in Latin America recently, has undoubtedly strengthened Brazil's still fledgling democracy. But the loss of Silva, who was its best known figure internationally after Lula himself, makes it even harder for the party to define what it still stands for.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil after Lula | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-08-18T09:18:09Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Two British law graduates accused of claiming they were robbed in Brazil to pocket an insurance payout are expected to learn their punishment this week.Shanti Andrews and Rebecca Turner, both 23, went on trial in Rio de Janeiro yesterday and admitted charges of attempted insurance fraud, according to local reports.Andrews told the court she and Turner, who both studied at the University of Sussex, had a laptop stolen during a tourist excursion to the south of the country, according to the Brazilian newspaper O\u00a0Globo. She admitted adding items that had not been stolen, including a purse, a mobile phone and a digital camera.The court heard from police who dealt with the students, with one officer saying his suspicions were raised by their quietness when they reported the losses, the paper said.The graduates' lawyer, Renato Tonini, previously said the likely punishment would be a fine or community service, although a prison sentence is a possibility.Andrews, from Frant, near Tunbridge Wells, in Kent, and Turner, from Woolton Hill, near Newbury, Berkshire, were arrested on 26 July after allegedly telling police that belongings totalling about \u00a31,000 were stolen during a bus journey during a nine-month world tour. They spent a week in custody before they were bailed to stay at a hotel in Rio.After their arrests, Andrews's mother, Simone Headley, said the two friends were traumatised and it had been a \"misunderstanding\" at the end of their trip.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "UK news", "Americas"], "title": "Britons admit Brazil insurance scam"},{"date": "2009-08-02T13:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A study released recently in Brazil shows the tragic extent of violence in the country, despite the great social and economic advances it has achieved in the last two decades.The report states that violence will lead to the death of more than 33,000 12- to 18-year-olds between 2006 and 2013. It also says that for every 1,000 teenagers, 2.03 die every year as a result of violence. Young Brazilian men are 12 times more likely to die than women, and a young black teenager is almost three times more likely to die violently than a white one. In 2006, when the data was collected, homicides were the cause of 46% of the deaths of young Brazilians.Take the story of H\u00e9lio Jos\u00e9 da Silva Ezequiel, a black Brazilian. He was murdered in April 2007 when he was 25 years old, coming back from the hospital where he visited his seventh child, a girl, who had just been born. The police said Ezequiel was probably taken for a drug dealer by a rival gang which was trying to seize the neighbourhood. His sister Edna Ezequiel had, 43 days before H\u00e9lio's death, seen her 13-year-old daughter Alana killed by a stray bullet in the same area.Would curtailing the drug market have any significant effect on violence? Is it a matter of political will? What efforts are being made to confront poverty and its links to violence?All these issues can be understood by considering the gap between state and nation in Brazil. Despite the country's recent social and economic advances \u2013 especially after the fall of the military regime and the establishment of a democratic one \u2013 many Brazilians entered the 21st century without the basic benefits a state should provide.Young black people are dying in higher numbers not only because they are poorer than white people or don't have the same opportunities as them, but also because there is little policing in their communities, education and healthcare are poor and they don't even have their rights as citizens guaranteed by the justice system.Public institutions are way behind the private ones in quality. Public healthcare is, in general, catastrophic. To provide medical, hospital and ambulance services to the country's 180 million people, as the constitution requires, the federal healthcare system spends about $20bn per year. This is almost the same amount that the private sector spends to provide the same services to the 40 million people capable of paying the bills.There is no universal access to justice or even to the knowledge necessary to use the legal system. In 2008, for example, 70m cases passed through the Brazilian justice system but only 25m came to trial. Justice in Brazil is hard to access, slow and very expensive, even for the rich.In education, there has been a major improvement in the number of children going to school in the last few years. However, between 14 and 18 years old, the percentage of young people in education drops radically, to less than 50% by school leaving age. Public schools are so bad that they can't keep their students.Every year, there are 45,000 violent deaths in Brazil, 80% of which involve firearms. The police are violent (in the state of Rio de Janeiro alone, they kill more than 1,000 people per year, more than 65% of whom show clear signs of execution); seen as widely corrupt (from 2003 to 2007, 854 military police officers were arrested due to links with organised crime); and poorly organised. Since the responsibility for public security in Brazil lies with each state, the federal government avoids being part of a complex issue that entails more political costs than benefits.All over the country, public security institutions are fighting hard to prove they are not a general failure. This is all despite the fact that taxes in Brazil take 36% of income \u2013 as much as in New Zealand (36.5%), Germany (38%), or the United Kingdom (39%), more than in Australia (30.5%) and Switzerland (30.1%), and close to the OECD 2005 average of 36.2%.In a country where infrastructure, industrialisation and economic development have been in the hands of an elite that has always controlled the state, consumers have always been preferred to citizens. Former president Fernando Henrique Cardoso and current president Luis In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva have both started major changes, giving great importance to issues such as public education and healthcare, poverty and economic stability. But the challenges are such that it will take more than two presidents to complete this work.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Teenage deaths still haunt Brazil | Arthur Ituassu"},{"date": "2009-08-18T08:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Our village's patron saint is venerated all over Brazil and every year thousands of pilgrims flock to this tiny seaside resort for a fortnight's celebration. Along with daily religious masses that wake up everyone with firecrackers at 5am, a lot of sun-block cream is expended and a great quantity of beer is drunk in the bars.It all ends when the statue of Nossa Senhora d'Ajuda (our Lady of Help) is paraded through the streets accompanied by the crowds and a brass band. The local politicos usually vie with each other to help carry the image \u2013 either to gain kudos or for good old-fashioned publicity. There's a travelling fair on the village field and roundabouts and rides and things we rarely see.But just as in Chaucer's Britain, the pilgrimage has its sinister side. The devotees are nearly always accompanied by hordes of ladr\u00f5es, malandros and what the Brazilian police call meliantes \u2013 thieves, rogues and vagabonds.They rob houses, hotels \u2013 and there are occasional cases of assault on the roads and beaches. The general advice is not to resist a thief armed with a gun or a knife. But human nature is stronger than logic \u2013 and there's some satisfaction in giving a good punch to a robber even if he secures some modest bounty.And that is why, as he bandaged up a broken bone on my finger, the doctor firmly admonished me to not to try fighting any more ladr\u00f5es \u2013 and certainly not for the next four weeks.My puppy, running free on the beach, had hurtled off in the direction of two guys who gave her some bread. Then as we walked along the footpath to the road, one produced a knife and demanded money. The other was rifling my pockets and I fear I couldn't resist taking a swing at him. I can only hope I did as much damage to him as I suffered. They ran off clutching my ageing camera \u2013 a haul that would be exchanged for the night's drugs.So I'm in the doghouse for taking an unnecessary risk and the dog's there, too, for accepting food from strangers.But a world full of ladr\u00e3os still has its magical moments. And I found one as I was returning home on the ferry. The full moon was casting brilliant reflections on the boat's wake and I still thought that it seems like Paradise here. The vision may have been a bit rose-tinted as I was sipping a beer, but I hope not \u2013 it was only the first can!", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil: paradise - except for the odd mugging"},{"date": "2009-09-22T04:46:27Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's president today asked Manuel Zelaya, the deposed president of Honduras, not to provide a pretext for coup leaders to invade the Brazilian embassy, where he has been holed up since his return to the country yesterday.President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva said he spoke with Zelaya by telephone this morning, as Honduran authorities moved to break up demonstrations outside the embassy in the Honduran capital, Tegucigalpa.Thousands of Zelaya supporters defied a curfew set by the interim government to celebrate his surprise return.The deposed leader sneaked back into the central American country \u2013 apparently travelling in a car boot and a tractor, among other means \u2013 and vowed from the sanctuary of the embassy to retake power.\"I want to tell you I am committed to the Honduran people and I am not going to rest one day, one minute, until the dictatorship is toppled,\" he told hundreds of cheering, chanting supporters.The interim authorities, who initially denied Zelaya was back, ordered a nationwide lockdown and told Brazil to hand over its guest to stand trial for treason and corruption, charges levelled against him after he was forced into exile.In a televised address the interim president, Roberto Micheletti, said Brazil would be held responsible for any violence. \"A call to the government of Brazil: respect the judicial order against Mr Zelaya and turn him in to Honduran authorities. The eyes of the world are on Brazil and Honduras.\"Brazil's foreign minister, Celso Amorim, warned that any action against the president or the diplomatic compound would violate international law.Zelaya has promised to use peaceful means, but with the country deeply polarised violence could flare. Sporadic clashes since the 28 June coup between security forces and the exiled leader's supporters left dozens injured and at least two dead.Zelaya's return opened a new, volatile phase in a crisis that has divided Hondurans and confronted central America with its gravest diplomatic dispute since the cold war. The homecoming is a gamble to regain the initiative \u2013 and spotlight \u2013 on the eve of this week's UN general assembly meeting in New York.The US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, urged both sides to talk. \"It's imperative that dialogue begin ... [that] there be a channel of communication between President Zelaya and the de facto regime.\"The interim rulers have been isolated internationally but until now had firm control of the country. Zelaya's return has galvanised his supporters. A powerful teachers union called a strike to demand his reinstatement.In addition to a curfew \"to preserve calm\" the authorities have shut airports and apparently cut power to several districts in Tegucigalpa.Since ousting Zelaya \u2013 soldiers roused him in his pyjamas at gunpoint and hustled him on to a plane \u2013 the interim regime has ruled out power-sharing with a man it deems a radical leftist.Venezuela's president, Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, celebrated his ally's return. \"It was a well-planned operation and it worked,\" he said. \"Zelaya deceived the coup mongers and went in the trunk of a car and even in a tractor.\"In a televised phone call from Zelaya, Ch\u00e1vez added: \"The coup mongers should surrender power peacefully. I congratulate you for your heroic act and the Latin American people admire you.\"Zelaya, giving back-to-back media interviews, told al-Jazeera television he dodged numerous obstacles during his journey. \"I had to avoid military checkpoints crossing very close to the mountains and sometimes through the valleys.\"He said he was committed to peaceful means and said elements of the army could put pressure on the interim government to negotiate a deal.The coup, a joint operation by the army, congress and the supreme court, sparked furious protests by Zelaya's supporters.Halfway through his term the rancher-turned-president, elected on a centrist platform, veered left and embraced Venezuela's socialist leader. The decision was popular with many in the slums but alarmed traditional elites, the middle class and conservative institutions.The crisis flared when he tried to hold a non-binding public consultation to ask people whether they supported moves to change the constitution. Opponents claimed it was a step towards extending Zelaya's rule and ousted him.The Obama administration, which has no love for the Ch\u00e1vez ally, joined condemnation of the coup, but held back from strong economic sanctions.Crisis talks in Costa Rica, hosted by President Oscar Arias, broke down without agreement. The strategy of the interim government was to ride out the diplomatic storm until elections in November installed a new leader.", "tags": ["Honduras", "Brazil", "Hugo Ch\u00e1vez", "Venezuela", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil urges Manuel Zelaya not to provoke Honduras coup leaders"},{"date": "2009-09-08T15:48:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "An Italian tourist arrested in Brazil after being accused of publicly molesting his eight-year-old daughter has been put under police guard in hospital after falling ill when a judge rejected his plea for bail.The 48-year-old entrepreneur, who has not been named, was arrested last Tuesday at a seaside resort in the north-eastern city of Fortaleza after bystanders told police he had been seen kissing and \"caressing\" the girl.However, Ivana Timb\u00f3, a superintendent in the city's taskforce combatting child sex tourism, said nothing in the daughter's initial statement suggested that she had been molested.If convicted, the tourist, from Guidonia, near Rome, could face a long spell in prison. New Brazilian laws, intended to crack down on child sex tourism, define \"libidinous acts\" with children under the age of 14 as rape, punishable with sentences of eight to 15 years.The Italian was rushed to hospital with high blood pressure on Sunday after a judge ruled he should remain in custody until police finished their initial investigation. Police are due to hear three further witnesses today.\"It was not a father-daughter situation,\" one witness told the television channel TV Verdes Mares, saying the man had touched his daughter in a \"hot\" manner.The girl's Brazilian mother, who reportedly met her husband 11 years ago while working as a waiter in Italy, denied any abuse. \"If something untoward had been going on, I would be on the side of my daughter,\" she told the government news agency Agencia Brasil.In an interview with local television she added: \"I think they got confused, they misunderstood it. With so many cases of sexual abuses, they saw a white, foreign man with a much darker [skinned] girl. They didn't try and inform themselves or find out who was who. They immediately thought it was a foreigner trying to pick up an eight-year-old girl.\" She blamed the accusations on \"prejudice\".Located in the impoverished north-eastern state of Cear\u00e1, Fortaleza, a seaside city of 2.4 million inhabitants, is a popular destination for European tourists and a notorious centre for sex tourism. Blessed with some of South America's most beautiful beaches, Cear\u00e1 is also one of the most deprived parts of Brazil, with one of the lowest development indexes in the country. Activists say thousands of European men go there each year in search of cheap sex, sometimes with minors, who use the money to support their families.Several European tour companies operate websites where visitors can fill in online forms \"ordering\" girls with whom they want to spend their holidays.A 2002 study of sex tourism in the region found that 78% of foreign visitors to Fortaleza were male, and 32% of cities in north-east Brazil had child prostitution networks, the highest rate in the country.Before being taken to hospital the Italian tourist, who was due to fly back to Italy last week, was reportedly being held in a cramped cell containing a mattress and a fan brought in by his family.Timb\u00f3 said the initial inquiry should be completed by Thursday.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Italy", "World news", "Travel", "Brazil holidays", "Europe", "Americas", "Sex tourism"], "title": "Tourist arrested in Brazil for kissing eight-year-old daughter"},{"date": "2009-09-09T09:49:59Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A week after BP announced its \"giant\" oil discovery in the Gulf of Mexico, BG has been boosted by a find of its own.The company said the Guara field in the Santos basin off the coast of Brazil - where BG has a 30% stake and is partnered with Petrobras and Repsol - could contain up to 2bn barrels of oil equivalent. BG chief executive Frank Chapman said the Santos basin \"will make a very material contribution to the production and cash flow of BG Group for many years to come.\"The news has lifted BG shares 25p to \u00a310.80 and prompted some positive analyst comment. Seymour Pierce said:\"To put the scale of this discovery in context, the recent news of Tiber in the the Gulf of Mexico [the BP project] indicated that the modern definition of \"giant\" is 500m barrels or more. Repsol has labelled Guara a mega-Field. As important as the reserves, is the fact that the test programme showed that the formation is a prolific producer with a permanent production well capable of flowing up to 50,000 barrels a day.\"In terms of valuation, on an indicative basis we estimate that Guara is worth between 35p and 65p per share net to BG. The Santos Basin has been an outstanding success for BG. With drilling activity continuing on its acreage, we would expect further good news flow and reiterate our buy stance.\"Meanwhile Evolution Securities is also upbeat:\"Although BG has not previously given specific guidance today's announcement is slightly above our assumption of 1bn barrels of oil equivalent. Based on the new range we would estimates that Guara is worth between 30p and 60p net to BG.\"We suspect the market is still discounting both Brazil and Australia quite aggressively in BG and so keep our price target of \u00a314.50.\"The BG news and the announcement by Moody's that Britain is set to keep its triple A credit rating  have lifted the market from its early doldrums. The FTSE 100 is now up 19.42 points at 4966.76 with 5000 back in sight for the first time since last October.Meanwhile Lonmin is still leading the losers, down 52p to \u00a316.60 as Merrill Lynch played down the prospect of a bid from Xstrata, up 3p to 883p. Cutting its recommendation from buy to neutral after Lonmin's recent strong share price performance, Merrill said:\"Lonmin shares are rallying on speculation that Xstrata will return to bid for the remaining 75% it does not already own (a \"bolt on\" transaction) as the time limit on the takeover panel bid conditions is reached on October 2nd. While we don't discount this completely, neither do we view this as \"sure thing\". We believe Xstrata would still prefer a transformational merger with Anglo American.\"", "tags": ["BG", "Business", "Lonmin", "Xstrata"], "title": "BG boosted by major oil and gas find in Brazil"},{"date": "2009-09-04T23:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Though the democracy-inspired New Wave Brazilian cinema of the 1960s could be described as a cohesive genre, contemporary Brazilian cinema, as diverse as its cultural heritage, defies easy labelling. This urban-centric festival has many tales to tell, facutal and fictional, that dispel the poverty-and-violence impression given by the likes of City Of God, such as The Sign Of The City, an engaging look at the vastness of S\u00e3o Paulo revolving around four listeners of an astrology radio show. There's also an unusual twist in The Conception, which features over-privileged, hedonistic bureaucrats' children causing mayhem in Brasilia, and December, the directorial debut of popular actor Selton Mello in which disenfranchised flatmates plan a heist - with a transvestite cabbie. Back in familiar territory, Last Stop 174 is the fictionalised story of a young homeless man whose tragic life as a street child led to the hijacking of a bus in Rio de Janeiro.", "tags": ["World cinema", "Festivals", "Film", "Culture", "London listings"], "title": "Film preview: Cinema Of Brazil: Urban Tales, London"},{"date": "2009-12-12T18:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazilians are world famous for their friendliness and so the handshakes, hugs and high fives were not unexpected. But they were not much compensation for the fact that I was locked in a room full of Command Vermelho (Red Command) prisoners \u2013 one of the deadliest armed groups in the world today \u2013 and the only guard on duty was down the other end of the corridor behind a bolted metal grill.I was being shown around a police lock-up in Rio de Janeiro by activists from Rio da Paz (Rio of Peace) who greeted the prisoners with equal enthusiasm. There were 600 people crammed into a two-wing block, each of which contained five cells with space for about 12 bunks in each. The heat was incredible and bodies were sprawled everywhere as people took it in turn to get some rest.Despite the friendliness, the atmosphere of underlying violence was extremely apparent. Rio is an undeclared war zone. A few weeks ago 12 people died in a single day in gun battles between Comando Vermelho and Amigos dos Amigos (Friends of Friends) during which a police helicopter was shot down. The police killed 1,137 people in Rio last year, down from their record of 1,330 the previous year, but still comparable with the total killed in Gaza during Israel's last offensive or the annual total in Darfur in recent years.Brazil's criminal gangs recruit most of their members in prison and organise many of their activities from there. Comando Vermelho controlled one of the wings that we were in while Amigos dos Amigos and Terceiro Commando (Third Force) were on the other. \"They would not last five minutes if they found themselves on the wrong wing,\" I was told. \"What if someone is not in a gang when they are arrested?\" I asked. \"The authorities just assign them to one in that case.\"Viewed from this perspective the 200% increase in the number of pre-trial detainees being held in Brazil that has occurred in the last 10 years is quite alarming. Many of the people being held have only been charged with extremely minor offences \u2013 such as shoplifting \u2013 but administrative inefficiencies in the conduct of trials means that it is not uncommon for them to spend longer on remand than their final sentence. Many should not even be there at all. The Brazilian judiciary have recently reopened the files in a number of states and found that around 20% of the people currently in prison should be released and a further 30% moved to lower security.Locking up petty thieves with hardened killers also provides the gangs with a steady stream of new recruits. Their leaders are responsible for the day to day administration of many prisons, controlling the distribution of food, medicine, and hygiene kits and enforcing whatever internal discipline exists. Two and half years ago the Primeiro Comando da Capital (PCC), S\u00e3o Paulo's most powerful crime gang, launched a series of co-ordinated attacks against police officers and prison staff in a protest over prison conditions, which resulted in around 450 killings. The PCC was initially formed by a group of prisoners to \"avenge the death of 111 prisoners\" who were killed during the suppression of a prison protest in 1992.Brazil is a good country to be a criminal because police detection rates for crime are very low and the legal system is so convoluted that trials can be drawn out for years. Its laws and constitution provide a whole range of rights and privileges to those who can hire private lawyers to claim them, but its legal aid system is weak to nonexistent and around 80% of its prison inmates are too poor to afford a lawyer.Documenting what is wrong with the current system is comparatively easy \u2013 although there are surprisingly few recent reports on the situation from groups like Amnesty International \u2013 it is knowing what to do about it that is the hard part. For years, human rights groups have called for new laws and institutions \u2013 which the Brazilian government is actually quite happy to introduce \u2013 but have largely ignored the dysfunctionality of the system as a whole. Brazil has entrenched the full range of human rights into its constitution and has some of the most liberal penal laws in the world. The problem is that \u2013 faced with one of the world's highest rates of violent crime \u2013 the people responsible for enforcing these laws are conspiring together to ensure that they don't work.Groups such as Rio da Paz and the Catholic church's Pastoral Carceraria, who are prepared to visit prisoners and provide them with basic assistance, are very few and far between, but with the state almost completely abdicating its responsibilities for penal management they are the only chance that most prisoners have got. Prison numbers are increasing across the country at a rate of 3,000 a month, so the pressure is now building at an alarming rate.It costs money to keep people locked up and money spent on prisons cannot be spent on developing alternative programmes. Imprisoning people for relatively minor offences has also been shown to be counterproductive and more likely to turn them into repeat offenders than a non-custodial sentence. There are, therefore, strong utilitarian reasons for trying to reduce the number of people that are sent to prison in Brazil and to use imprisonment only as a last resort. However, Brazil is not the only country in the world to be pursuing the opposite policy. Prison numbers are going up across the world and Brazil offers a frightening glimpse into what the future consequences of this could be.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Fuelling the war in Brazil | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-12-12T18:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazilians are world famous for their friendliness and so the handshakes, hugs and high fives were not unexpected. But they were not much compensation for the fact that I was locked in a room full of Command Vermelho (Red Command) prisoners \u2013 one of the deadliest armed groups in the world today \u2013 and the only guard on duty was down the other end of the corridor behind a bolted metal grill.I was being shown around a police lock-up in Rio de Janeiro by activists from Rio da Paz (Rio of Peace) who greeted the prisoners with equal enthusiasm. There were 600 people crammed into a two-wing block, each of which contained five cells with space for about 12 bunks in each. The heat was incredible and bodies were sprawled everywhere as people took it in turn to get some rest.Despite the friendliness, the atmosphere of underlying violence was extremely apparent. Rio is an undeclared war zone. A few weeks ago 12 people died in a single day in gun battles between Comando Vermelho and Amigos dos Amigos (Friends of Friends) during which a police helicopter was shot down. The police killed 1,137 people in Rio last year, down from their record of 1,330 the previous year, but still comparable with the total killed in Gaza during Israel's last offensive or the annual total in Darfur in recent years.Brazil's criminal gangs recruit most of their members in prison and organise many of their activities from there. Comando Vermelho controlled one of the wings that we were in while Amigos dos Amigos and Terceiro Commando (Third Force) were on the other. \"They would not last five minutes if they found themselves on the wrong wing,\" I was told. \"What if someone is not in a gang when they are arrested?\" I asked. \"The authorities just assign them to one in that case.\"Viewed from this perspective the 200% increase in the number of pre-trial detainees being held in Brazil that has occurred in the last 10 years is quite alarming. Many of the people being held have only been charged with extremely minor offences \u2013 such as shoplifting \u2013 but administrative inefficiencies in the conduct of trials means that it is not uncommon for them to spend longer on remand than their final sentence. Many should not even be there at all. The Brazilian judiciary have recently reopened the files in a number of states and found that around 20% of the people currently in prison should be released and a further 30% moved to lower security.Locking up petty thieves with hardened killers also provides the gangs with a steady stream of new recruits. Their leaders are responsible for the day to day administration of many prisons, controlling the distribution of food, medicine, and hygiene kits and enforcing whatever internal discipline exists. Two and half years ago the Primeiro Comando da Capital (PCC), S\u00e3o Paulo's most powerful crime gang, launched a series of co-ordinated attacks against police officers and prison staff in a protest over prison conditions, which resulted in around 450 killings. The PCC was initially formed by a group of prisoners to \"avenge the death of 111 prisoners\" who were killed during the suppression of a prison protest in 1992.Brazil is a good country to be a criminal because police detection rates for crime are very low and the legal system is so convoluted that trials can be drawn out for years. Its laws and constitution provide a whole range of rights and privileges to those who can hire private lawyers to claim them, but its legal aid system is weak to nonexistent and around 80% of its prison inmates are too poor to afford a lawyer.Documenting what is wrong with the current system is comparatively easy \u2013 although there are surprisingly few recent reports on the situation from groups like Amnesty International \u2013 it is knowing what to do about it that is the hard part. For years, human rights groups have called for new laws and institutions \u2013 which the Brazilian government is actually quite happy to introduce \u2013 but have largely ignored the dysfunctionality of the system as a whole. Brazil has entrenched the full range of human rights into its constitution and has some of the most liberal penal laws in the world. The problem is that \u2013 faced with one of the world's highest rates of violent crime \u2013 the people responsible for enforcing these laws are conspiring together to ensure that they don't work.Groups such as Rio da Paz and the Catholic church's Pastoral Carceraria, who are prepared to visit prisoners and provide them with basic assistance, are very few and far between, but with the state almost completely abdicating its responsibilities for penal management they are the only chance that most prisoners have got. Prison numbers are increasing across the country at a rate of 3,000 a month, so the pressure is now building at an alarming rate.It costs money to keep people locked up and money spent on prisons cannot be spent on developing alternative programmes. Imprisoning people for relatively minor offences has also been shown to be counterproductive and more likely to turn them into repeat offenders than a non-custodial sentence. There are, therefore, strong utilitarian reasons for trying to reduce the number of people that are sent to prison in Brazil and to use imprisonment only as a last resort. However, Brazil is not the only country in the world to be pursuing the opposite policy. Prison numbers are going up across the world and Brazil offers a frightening glimpse into what the future consequences of this could be.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Fuelling the war in Brazil | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-12-10T20:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "In an effort to stem the appreciation of its currency, the real, Brazil has twice resorted to capital controls. In response to these measures, IMF head Dominique Strauss-Kahn says capital controls are \"not something that come from hell\", but the IMF won't be recommending them any time soon to remedy the current crisis.Enough is enough. Given the economic evidence and in the wake of the current crisis, the IMF should change more than its rhetoric and do away with its Washington consensus policies by encouraging Brazil to strengthen its capital controls, not eliminate them.In some ways Brazil is a victim of its own success. With US and other western interest rates low and concern about the weakening of the US dollar high, investors have flocked to emerging markets. Brazil has been the most attractive, having rebounded much better than most. Brazil started growing again in the second quarter of 2009 and is set to grow by 3.5% in 2009.However, massive capital inflows this year have caused the Brazilian real to appreciate 34% on the dollar and over 40% over the Chinese yuan. This could make Brazil's exports less attractive, accentuate its current account balance, and potentially make Brazil slide back into its crisis-ridden 1990s.In response to these shocks, on 20 October Brazil placed a 2% tax on foreign exchange inflows. At first the controls seemed to have a positive effect. Shortly after they were announced the real slid by 2% and the stock market by 3%. Yet both markets regained ground.Despite the IMF's intransigence, taxes on inflows like Brazil's have a good track record. In a recent report by the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), Carmen Reinhart and Nicholas Magud assess the most rigorous studies on capital controls and conclude \"in sum, capital controls on inflows seem to make monetary policy more independent, alter the composition of capital flows and reduce real exchange rate pressures.\"Why then have Brazil's controls not had the desired effects? There are two reasons. First, the level of Brazil's tax is too low relative to the more successful cases analysed by Reinhart and Magud. Second, in globalised financial system, investors increasingly learn how to circumvent capital controls.Two of Brazil's neighbours, Chile and Colombia, have successfully used taxes on capital inflows. To dampen the effects of massive inflows in the wake of the earlier crises, both nations deployed an unremunerated reserve requirement (URR). A URR is a mandatory non-interest-bearing deposit in foreign currency at the Central Bank for a certain period in an amount proportional to the size of the capital flow (30% for Chile, 47% for Colombia). The tax equivalent of Chile's controls averaged 4.24% and was as high as 7.7%. Colombia's ranged from 6.4% to 13.6%.Each of these tax equivalents is almost two to seven times stronger than Brazil's current controls.Another reason why Brazil's controls aren't working is because investors have invented creative ways to circumvent them. According to another NBER report, by Bernandro Carvalho and Marcio Garcia, investors have loopholed controls by disguising short-term capital as foreign direct investment, through currency swaps and other derivatives, and by purchasing American depositary receipts (ADRs).ADRs are issued by US banks and allow investors to buy shares of firms outside the US \u2013 enabling investors to purchase Brazilian shares but in New York and thereby skirt controls in Brazil.In a step in the right direction, on November 18, Brazil moved to put a 1.5% tax on ADRs to stem speculating around the October controls. Thus, a Brazilian bank or investor that deposits shares with foreign banks will be charged the tax.How much is enough? At the time of writing it is not clear that Brazil's capital controls are stiff enough, or loophole-free enough. Rather than scorn Brazil, the IMF should be working to help Brazil design stronger and more effective ways to stem the rapid appreciation of its exchange rate. Enough with the business as usual, the IMF must change to reflect economic thinking and 21st century realities.", "tags": ["Brazil", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "Currencies", "Economics", "International trade", "World news", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Helping Brazil to help itself | Kevin Gallagher"},{"date": "2009-12-12T18:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazilians are world famous for their friendliness and so the handshakes, hugs and high fives were not unexpected. But they were not much compensation for the fact that I was locked in a room full of Command Vermelho (Red Command) prisoners \u2013 one of the deadliest armed groups in the world today \u2013 and the only guard on duty was down the other end of the corridor behind a bolted metal grill.I was being shown around a police lock-up in Rio de Janeiro by activists from Rio da Paz (Rio of Peace) who greeted the prisoners with equal enthusiasm. There were 600 people crammed into a two-wing block, each of which contained five cells with space for about 12 bunks in each. The heat was incredible and bodies were sprawled everywhere as people took it in turn to get some rest.Despite the friendliness, the atmosphere of underlying violence was extremely apparent. Rio is an undeclared war zone. A few weeks ago 12 people died in a single day in gun battles between Comando Vermelho and Amigos dos Amigos (Friends of Friends) during which a police helicopter was shot down. The police killed 1,137 people in Rio last year, down from their record of 1,330 the previous year, but still comparable with the total killed in Gaza during Israel's last offensive or the annual total in Darfur in recent years.Brazil's criminal gangs recruit most of their members in prison and organise many of their activities from there. Comando Vermelho controlled one of the wings that we were in while Amigos dos Amigos and Terceiro Commando (Third Force) were on the other. \"They would not last five minutes if they found themselves on the wrong wing,\" I was told. \"What if someone is not in a gang when they are arrested?\" I asked. \"The authorities just assign them to one in that case.\"Viewed from this perspective the 200% increase in the number of pre-trial detainees being held in Brazil that has occurred in the last 10 years is quite alarming. Many of the people being held have only been charged with extremely minor offences \u2013 such as shoplifting \u2013 but administrative inefficiencies in the conduct of trials means that it is not uncommon for them to spend longer on remand than their final sentence. Many should not even be there at all. The Brazilian judiciary have recently reopened the files in a number of states and found that around 20% of the people currently in prison should be released and a further 30% moved to lower security.Locking up petty thieves with hardened killers also provides the gangs with a steady stream of new recruits. Their leaders are responsible for the day to day administration of many prisons, controlling the distribution of food, medicine, and hygiene kits and enforcing whatever internal discipline exists. Two and half years ago the Primeiro Comando da Capital (PCC), S\u00e3o Paulo's most powerful crime gang, launched a series of co-ordinated attacks against police officers and prison staff in a protest over prison conditions, which resulted in around 450 killings. The PCC was initially formed by a group of prisoners to \"avenge the death of 111 prisoners\" who were killed during the suppression of a prison protest in 1992.Brazil is a good country to be a criminal because police detection rates for crime are very low and the legal system is so convoluted that trials can be drawn out for years. Its laws and constitution provide a whole range of rights and privileges to those who can hire private lawyers to claim them, but its legal aid system is weak to nonexistent and around 80% of its prison inmates are too poor to afford a lawyer.Documenting what is wrong with the current system is comparatively easy \u2013 although there are surprisingly few recent reports on the situation from groups like Amnesty International \u2013 it is knowing what to do about it that is the hard part. For years, human rights groups have called for new laws and institutions \u2013 which the Brazilian government is actually quite happy to introduce \u2013 but have largely ignored the dysfunctionality of the system as a whole. Brazil has entrenched the full range of human rights into its constitution and has some of the most liberal penal laws in the world. The problem is that \u2013 faced with one of the world's highest rates of violent crime \u2013 the people responsible for enforcing these laws are conspiring together to ensure that they don't work.Groups such as Rio da Paz and the Catholic church's Pastoral Carceraria, who are prepared to visit prisoners and provide them with basic assistance, are very few and far between, but with the state almost completely abdicating its responsibilities for penal management they are the only chance that most prisoners have got. Prison numbers are increasing across the country at a rate of 3,000 a month, so the pressure is now building at an alarming rate.It costs money to keep people locked up and money spent on prisons cannot be spent on developing alternative programmes. Imprisoning people for relatively minor offences has also been shown to be counterproductive and more likely to turn them into repeat offenders than a non-custodial sentence. There are, therefore, strong utilitarian reasons for trying to reduce the number of people that are sent to prison in Brazil and to use imprisonment only as a last resort. However, Brazil is not the only country in the world to be pursuing the opposite policy. Prison numbers are going up across the world and Brazil offers a frightening glimpse into what the future consequences of this could be.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Fuelling the war in Brazil | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-12-10T20:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "In an effort to stem the appreciation of its currency, the real, Brazil has twice resorted to capital controls. In response to these measures, IMF head Dominique Strauss-Kahn says capital controls are \"not something that come from hell\", but the IMF won't be recommending them any time soon to remedy the current crisis.Enough is enough. Given the economic evidence and in the wake of the current crisis, the IMF should change more than its rhetoric and do away with its Washington consensus policies by encouraging Brazil to strengthen its capital controls, not eliminate them.In some ways Brazil is a victim of its own success. With US and other western interest rates low and concern about the weakening of the US dollar high, investors have flocked to emerging markets. Brazil has been the most attractive, having rebounded much better than most. Brazil started growing again in the second quarter of 2009 and is set to grow by 3.5% in 2009.However, massive capital inflows this year have caused the Brazilian real to appreciate 34% on the dollar and over 40% over the Chinese yuan. This could make Brazil's exports less attractive, accentuate its current account balance, and potentially make Brazil slide back into its crisis-ridden 1990s.In response to these shocks, on 20 October Brazil placed a 2% tax on foreign exchange inflows. At first the controls seemed to have a positive effect. Shortly after they were announced the real slid by 2% and the stock market by 3%. Yet both markets regained ground.Despite the IMF's intransigence, taxes on inflows like Brazil's have a good track record. In a recent report by the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), Carmen Reinhart and Nicholas Magud assess the most rigorous studies on capital controls and conclude \"in sum, capital controls on inflows seem to make monetary policy more independent, alter the composition of capital flows and reduce real exchange rate pressures.\"Why then have Brazil's controls not had the desired effects? There are two reasons. First, the level of Brazil's tax is too low relative to the more successful cases analysed by Reinhart and Magud. Second, in globalised financial system, investors increasingly learn how to circumvent capital controls.Two of Brazil's neighbours, Chile and Colombia, have successfully used taxes on capital inflows. To dampen the effects of massive inflows in the wake of the earlier crises, both nations deployed an unremunerated reserve requirement (URR). A URR is a mandatory non-interest-bearing deposit in foreign currency at the Central Bank for a certain period in an amount proportional to the size of the capital flow (30% for Chile, 47% for Colombia). The tax equivalent of Chile's controls averaged 4.24% and was as high as 7.7%. Colombia's ranged from 6.4% to 13.6%.Each of these tax equivalents is almost two to seven times stronger than Brazil's current controls.Another reason why Brazil's controls aren't working is because investors have invented creative ways to circumvent them. According to another NBER report, by Bernandro Carvalho and Marcio Garcia, investors have loopholed controls by disguising short-term capital as foreign direct investment, through currency swaps and other derivatives, and by purchasing American depositary receipts (ADRs).ADRs are issued by US banks and allow investors to buy shares of firms outside the US \u2013 enabling investors to purchase Brazilian shares but in New York and thereby skirt controls in Brazil.In a step in the right direction, on November 18, Brazil moved to put a 1.5% tax on ADRs to stem speculating around the October controls. Thus, a Brazilian bank or investor that deposits shares with foreign banks will be charged the tax.How much is enough? At the time of writing it is not clear that Brazil's capital controls are stiff enough, or loophole-free enough. Rather than scorn Brazil, the IMF should be working to help Brazil design stronger and more effective ways to stem the rapid appreciation of its exchange rate. Enough with the business as usual, the IMF must change to reflect economic thinking and 21st century realities.", "tags": ["Brazil", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "Currencies", "Economics", "International trade", "World news", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Helping Brazil to help itself | Kevin Gallagher"},{"date": "2009-10-26T19:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The last time I saw Evandro da Silva, deputy head of the campaigning musical collective Afro-Reggae, he showed me a graphic video of police corruption and brutality in the city of Rio de Janeiro. The footage of his death last week was aired on national television and has shocked the whole of Brazil.Da Silva was killed during a street robbery in which two thieves stole his trainers and jacket. CCTV images show that the robbers were apprehended minutes later by two police officers, who must have also witnessed the shooting. Yet rather than arrest his killers, they took the trainers and jacket and then released them. The police made no attempt to save da Silva's life, and he died 50 minutes later.The everyday banality of the incident has brought home how out of control the city's police force has become. \"For a jacket and a tennis shoe two irresponsible police officers have confirmed the chronic incompetence of the Brazilian state,\" wrote Denis Mizne, the co-ordinator of Sou da Paz in an angry polemic in Floha do Sao Paulo, the country's leading newspaper.Last week's killing comes after a wave of gun battles have again ripped through Rio's favelas. Scores of people have died in a series of shoot-outs between the police and rival groups of drug traffickers, who even managed to shoot down a police helicopter. The police kill more than 1,000 people in Rio every year and there are numerous credible reports that many of these are the results of extra-judicial executions. Although such actions have been glamorised by films such as Tropa de Elite, for most of Rio's residents, the police are just another criminal faction fighting for control of the city.Rio recently was recently awarded the honour of hosting the 2016 Olympic games, which will come two years after a Brazilian World Cup in 2014. Brazilians have been indulging themselves in a wave of optimism in recent months. Rising exports, a commodities price boom and the government's investment in social policies have stimulated the economy and helped millions out of poverty. The country shrugged off the worldwide economic crisis, with only a slight dip in growth rates, and is hoping to capitalise on a boom from tourism and its sporting triumphs. After years of neglect and urban violence, it seemed that Rio again was on the rise.AfroReggae and Sou da Paz have been running pioneering social programmes in the favelas of Rio and Sao Paulo that are credited with helping to reduce the chronic violence that has blighted the country's reputation. Violence peaked in Brazil in 2003 when almost 50,000 people were shot dead. The murder rate has been falling since then, but is still considerably higher than most of the violent conflicts taking place anywhere else in the world today.I am working on a project looking at the issue of pre-trial detention in Brazil. The number of people being held in custody awaiting trial has almost quadrupled over the last 10 years, which has massively overstretched the capacity of the already overcrowded Brazilian penal system. Tens of thousands of people are being held in police lock-ups or improvised detention centres crammed dozens per cell or stuffed into container crates, which lack even the most basic facilities of hygiene and ventilation.Some commentators have linked the rising numbers being held in prison with the falling death rate, but a more detailed analysis of the figures does not bear this out. However, it may reflect a widely felt frustration about the inability of the Brazilian criminal justice system to process cases efficiently. Brazil's constitution and laws provide a whole range of theoretical rights and privileges to those who can afford lawyers to assert them. Cases are subject to endless appeals, which clog up the courts. The guilty often go unpunished or receive treatment far more lenient than their crimes deserve. Remanding people into custody at the start of the process may partly be an attempt by over-burdened judges to ensure that those accused of crimes do spend some time in prison. The police's shoot-to-kill policy stems from the same frustration.This obviously fails to differentiate between the guilty and innocent. It also means that people accused of the most minor offences are being locked up with murderers and gang leaders. Most of Brazil's prisons are effectively under the control of the criminal gangs who also wreak such violence on the streets. Every new prisoner is a potential new recruit and this policy is even officially recognised by the authorities, who ask them to choose which gang they belong to when making prison allocations. Prisoners who insist that they don't belong to a gang are often assigned to one for administrative convenience.An alternative policy needs to tackle the causes of crime as well as thoroughly overhaul the institutions of the Brazilian criminal justice system. Raising the pay of prison warders and police should obviously be a part of this strategy and so should tackling corruption and criminality in both forces. The problems of pre-trial detention can also not be divorced from the wider need for justice sector reform and for the chronic backlog of cases to be dealt with.\"We have left behind being a second-rate country to become a first-rate one,\" said Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, Brazil's popular president, on the day of the country's Olympic triumph. \"Respect is good and we are happy to receive it.\" But respect has to be earned as well and there is no point having a first-world society and economy while the Brazilian state remains firmly stuck in the third one.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil must stop the killing | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-12-12T18:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazilians are world famous for their friendliness and so the handshakes, hugs and high fives were not unexpected. But they were not much compensation for the fact that I was locked in a room full of Command Vermelho (Red Command) prisoners \u2013 one of the deadliest armed groups in the world today \u2013 and the only guard on duty was down the other end of the corridor behind a bolted metal grill.I was being shown around a police lock-up in Rio de Janeiro by activists from Rio da Paz (Rio of Peace) who greeted the prisoners with equal enthusiasm. There were 600 people crammed into a two-wing block, each of which contained five cells with space for about 12 bunks in each. The heat was incredible and bodies were sprawled everywhere as people took it in turn to get some rest.Despite the friendliness, the atmosphere of underlying violence was extremely apparent. Rio is an undeclared war zone. A few weeks ago 12 people died in a single day in gun battles between Comando Vermelho and Amigos dos Amigos (Friends of Friends) during which a police helicopter was shot down. The police killed 1,137 people in Rio last year, down from their record of 1,330 the previous year, but still comparable with the total killed in Gaza during Israel's last offensive or the annual total in Darfur in recent years.Brazil's criminal gangs recruit most of their members in prison and organise many of their activities from there. Comando Vermelho controlled one of the wings that we were in while Amigos dos Amigos and Terceiro Commando (Third Force) were on the other. \"They would not last five minutes if they found themselves on the wrong wing,\" I was told. \"What if someone is not in a gang when they are arrested?\" I asked. \"The authorities just assign them to one in that case.\"Viewed from this perspective the 200% increase in the number of pre-trial detainees being held in Brazil that has occurred in the last 10 years is quite alarming. Many of the people being held have only been charged with extremely minor offences \u2013 such as shoplifting \u2013 but administrative inefficiencies in the conduct of trials means that it is not uncommon for them to spend longer on remand than their final sentence. Many should not even be there at all. The Brazilian judiciary have recently reopened the files in a number of states and found that around 20% of the people currently in prison should be released and a further 30% moved to lower security.Locking up petty thieves with hardened killers also provides the gangs with a steady stream of new recruits. Their leaders are responsible for the day to day administration of many prisons, controlling the distribution of food, medicine, and hygiene kits and enforcing whatever internal discipline exists. Two and half years ago the Primeiro Comando da Capital (PCC), S\u00e3o Paulo's most powerful crime gang, launched a series of co-ordinated attacks against police officers and prison staff in a protest over prison conditions, which resulted in around 450 killings. The PCC was initially formed by a group of prisoners to \"avenge the death of 111 prisoners\" who were killed during the suppression of a prison protest in 1992.Brazil is a good country to be a criminal because police detection rates for crime are very low and the legal system is so convoluted that trials can be drawn out for years. Its laws and constitution provide a whole range of rights and privileges to those who can hire private lawyers to claim them, but its legal aid system is weak to nonexistent and around 80% of its prison inmates are too poor to afford a lawyer.Documenting what is wrong with the current system is comparatively easy \u2013 although there are surprisingly few recent reports on the situation from groups like Amnesty International \u2013 it is knowing what to do about it that is the hard part. For years, human rights groups have called for new laws and institutions \u2013 which the Brazilian government is actually quite happy to introduce \u2013 but have largely ignored the dysfunctionality of the system as a whole. Brazil has entrenched the full range of human rights into its constitution and has some of the most liberal penal laws in the world. The problem is that \u2013 faced with one of the world's highest rates of violent crime \u2013 the people responsible for enforcing these laws are conspiring together to ensure that they don't work.Groups such as Rio da Paz and the Catholic church's Pastoral Carceraria, who are prepared to visit prisoners and provide them with basic assistance, are very few and far between, but with the state almost completely abdicating its responsibilities for penal management they are the only chance that most prisoners have got. Prison numbers are increasing across the country at a rate of 3,000 a month, so the pressure is now building at an alarming rate.It costs money to keep people locked up and money spent on prisons cannot be spent on developing alternative programmes. Imprisoning people for relatively minor offences has also been shown to be counterproductive and more likely to turn them into repeat offenders than a non-custodial sentence. There are, therefore, strong utilitarian reasons for trying to reduce the number of people that are sent to prison in Brazil and to use imprisonment only as a last resort. However, Brazil is not the only country in the world to be pursuing the opposite policy. Prison numbers are going up across the world and Brazil offers a frightening glimpse into what the future consequences of this could be.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Fuelling the war in Brazil | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-12-10T20:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "In an effort to stem the appreciation of its currency, the real, Brazil has twice resorted to capital controls. In response to these measures, IMF head Dominique Strauss-Kahn says capital controls are \"not something that come from hell\", but the IMF won't be recommending them any time soon to remedy the current crisis.Enough is enough. Given the economic evidence and in the wake of the current crisis, the IMF should change more than its rhetoric and do away with its Washington consensus policies by encouraging Brazil to strengthen its capital controls, not eliminate them.In some ways Brazil is a victim of its own success. With US and other western interest rates low and concern about the weakening of the US dollar high, investors have flocked to emerging markets. Brazil has been the most attractive, having rebounded much better than most. Brazil started growing again in the second quarter of 2009 and is set to grow by 3.5% in 2009.However, massive capital inflows this year have caused the Brazilian real to appreciate 34% on the dollar and over 40% over the Chinese yuan. This could make Brazil's exports less attractive, accentuate its current account balance, and potentially make Brazil slide back into its crisis-ridden 1990s.In response to these shocks, on 20 October Brazil placed a 2% tax on foreign exchange inflows. At first the controls seemed to have a positive effect. Shortly after they were announced the real slid by 2% and the stock market by 3%. Yet both markets regained ground.Despite the IMF's intransigence, taxes on inflows like Brazil's have a good track record. In a recent report by the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), Carmen Reinhart and Nicholas Magud assess the most rigorous studies on capital controls and conclude \"in sum, capital controls on inflows seem to make monetary policy more independent, alter the composition of capital flows and reduce real exchange rate pressures.\"Why then have Brazil's controls not had the desired effects? There are two reasons. First, the level of Brazil's tax is too low relative to the more successful cases analysed by Reinhart and Magud. Second, in globalised financial system, investors increasingly learn how to circumvent capital controls.Two of Brazil's neighbours, Chile and Colombia, have successfully used taxes on capital inflows. To dampen the effects of massive inflows in the wake of the earlier crises, both nations deployed an unremunerated reserve requirement (URR). A URR is a mandatory non-interest-bearing deposit in foreign currency at the Central Bank for a certain period in an amount proportional to the size of the capital flow (30% for Chile, 47% for Colombia). The tax equivalent of Chile's controls averaged 4.24% and was as high as 7.7%. Colombia's ranged from 6.4% to 13.6%.Each of these tax equivalents is almost two to seven times stronger than Brazil's current controls.Another reason why Brazil's controls aren't working is because investors have invented creative ways to circumvent them. According to another NBER report, by Bernandro Carvalho and Marcio Garcia, investors have loopholed controls by disguising short-term capital as foreign direct investment, through currency swaps and other derivatives, and by purchasing American depositary receipts (ADRs).ADRs are issued by US banks and allow investors to buy shares of firms outside the US \u2013 enabling investors to purchase Brazilian shares but in New York and thereby skirt controls in Brazil.In a step in the right direction, on November 18, Brazil moved to put a 1.5% tax on ADRs to stem speculating around the October controls. Thus, a Brazilian bank or investor that deposits shares with foreign banks will be charged the tax.How much is enough? At the time of writing it is not clear that Brazil's capital controls are stiff enough, or loophole-free enough. Rather than scorn Brazil, the IMF should be working to help Brazil design stronger and more effective ways to stem the rapid appreciation of its exchange rate. Enough with the business as usual, the IMF must change to reflect economic thinking and 21st century realities.", "tags": ["Brazil", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "Currencies", "Economics", "International trade", "World news", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Helping Brazil to help itself | Kevin Gallagher"},{"date": "2009-10-26T19:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The last time I saw Evandro da Silva, deputy head of the campaigning musical collective Afro-Reggae, he showed me a graphic video of police corruption and brutality in the city of Rio de Janeiro. The footage of his death last week was aired on national television and has shocked the whole of Brazil.Da Silva was killed during a street robbery in which two thieves stole his trainers and jacket. CCTV images show that the robbers were apprehended minutes later by two police officers, who must have also witnessed the shooting. Yet rather than arrest his killers, they took the trainers and jacket and then released them. The police made no attempt to save da Silva's life, and he died 50 minutes later.The everyday banality of the incident has brought home how out of control the city's police force has become. \"For a jacket and a tennis shoe two irresponsible police officers have confirmed the chronic incompetence of the Brazilian state,\" wrote Denis Mizne, the co-ordinator of Sou da Paz in an angry polemic in Floha do Sao Paulo, the country's leading newspaper.Last week's killing comes after a wave of gun battles have again ripped through Rio's favelas. Scores of people have died in a series of shoot-outs between the police and rival groups of drug traffickers, who even managed to shoot down a police helicopter. The police kill more than 1,000 people in Rio every year and there are numerous credible reports that many of these are the results of extra-judicial executions. Although such actions have been glamorised by films such as Tropa de Elite, for most of Rio's residents, the police are just another criminal faction fighting for control of the city.Rio recently was recently awarded the honour of hosting the 2016 Olympic games, which will come two years after a Brazilian World Cup in 2014. Brazilians have been indulging themselves in a wave of optimism in recent months. Rising exports, a commodities price boom and the government's investment in social policies have stimulated the economy and helped millions out of poverty. The country shrugged off the worldwide economic crisis, with only a slight dip in growth rates, and is hoping to capitalise on a boom from tourism and its sporting triumphs. After years of neglect and urban violence, it seemed that Rio again was on the rise.AfroReggae and Sou da Paz have been running pioneering social programmes in the favelas of Rio and Sao Paulo that are credited with helping to reduce the chronic violence that has blighted the country's reputation. Violence peaked in Brazil in 2003 when almost 50,000 people were shot dead. The murder rate has been falling since then, but is still considerably higher than most of the violent conflicts taking place anywhere else in the world today.I am working on a project looking at the issue of pre-trial detention in Brazil. The number of people being held in custody awaiting trial has almost quadrupled over the last 10 years, which has massively overstretched the capacity of the already overcrowded Brazilian penal system. Tens of thousands of people are being held in police lock-ups or improvised detention centres crammed dozens per cell or stuffed into container crates, which lack even the most basic facilities of hygiene and ventilation.Some commentators have linked the rising numbers being held in prison with the falling death rate, but a more detailed analysis of the figures does not bear this out. However, it may reflect a widely felt frustration about the inability of the Brazilian criminal justice system to process cases efficiently. Brazil's constitution and laws provide a whole range of theoretical rights and privileges to those who can afford lawyers to assert them. Cases are subject to endless appeals, which clog up the courts. The guilty often go unpunished or receive treatment far more lenient than their crimes deserve. Remanding people into custody at the start of the process may partly be an attempt by over-burdened judges to ensure that those accused of crimes do spend some time in prison. The police's shoot-to-kill policy stems from the same frustration.This obviously fails to differentiate between the guilty and innocent. It also means that people accused of the most minor offences are being locked up with murderers and gang leaders. Most of Brazil's prisons are effectively under the control of the criminal gangs who also wreak such violence on the streets. Every new prisoner is a potential new recruit and this policy is even officially recognised by the authorities, who ask them to choose which gang they belong to when making prison allocations. Prisoners who insist that they don't belong to a gang are often assigned to one for administrative convenience.An alternative policy needs to tackle the causes of crime as well as thoroughly overhaul the institutions of the Brazilian criminal justice system. Raising the pay of prison warders and police should obviously be a part of this strategy and so should tackling corruption and criminality in both forces. The problems of pre-trial detention can also not be divorced from the wider need for justice sector reform and for the chronic backlog of cases to be dealt with.\"We have left behind being a second-rate country to become a first-rate one,\" said Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, Brazil's popular president, on the day of the country's Olympic triumph. \"Respect is good and we are happy to receive it.\" But respect has to be earned as well and there is no point having a first-world society and economy while the Brazilian state remains firmly stuck in the third one.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil must stop the killing | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-11-25T18:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The world must engage, not isolate Iran, in the push for Middle East peace, said Brazil's President Lula after a three-hour private meeting with his Iranian counterpart, President Ahmadinejad, on Monday.Lula also said that Brazil supports Iran's rights to enjoy what he called \"the benefits of fuel and technology\". But he said Iran should negotiate with western nations for a \"just and balanced\" solution to concerns over its nuclear programme. The two leaders also issued a joint call for reform of the United Nations.Ahmadinejad became the first Iranian head of state to visit Brazil in 44 years and the trip was widely viewed as controversial. Originally scheduled for immediately after the presidential elections in Iran last June, it was postponed following the street protests that greeted the blatant rigging of this poll. However, Lula congratulated Ahmadinejad on his election \"victory\" and compared the protests to football fans whose side had lost a match. In September, he urged the west to stop pushing Iran over its nuclear programme and called for dialogue and engagement with Iran to foster peace.The government of Israel lobbied hard against the visit and it was met by widespread protests by Jewish groups as well as by Brazilian human rights organisations. Last week Israel's president, Shimon Peres, also came to Brazil in what was officially billed as a trade mission but widely seen as an attempt to upstage Ahmadinejad's visit. A press release expressed Israel's concern at what it described as \"Iranian infiltration\" in Latin America.In an address to Brazil's Congress, Peres pleaded that, \"There needs to be a voice against destruction and against terror, a clear voice. I know that Brazil rejects threats, destruction, rejects terror, and the clear voice of Brazil has a strong echo in the entire world. I don't want to argue about the president of Iran on Brazilian soil, but we think his policies are a global danger. The Iranian government is arming, is training terrorist movements such as Hamas and Hezbollah,\" he concluded. His visit included a trip to Argentina where Peres attended a memorial service for the victims of two bomb attacks, which killed over 100 people in the early 1990s and are widely believed to have been carried out by Iranian-backed Hezbollah. Iran's current minister for defence, Ahmad Vahidi, is wanted for questioning by Interpol for his alleged role in the planning of this attack.Iran has already forged close link with Hugo Ch\u00e1vez of Venezuela and Evo Morales of Bolivia. However, Lula is widely seen as more moderate than Ch\u00e1vez, and Morales and has helped to blunt some of Iran's wilder anti-US policies.Brazil is currently enjoying its strongest period of economic growth in recent years and has been developing a far more assertive foreign policy. It has opened scores of new embassies across the world and is making a particular effort to forge closer economic and diplomatic links with Africa, Asia and the Middle East. It is also enjoying increasing influence as an effective leader of the G20 group of developing countries and has recently strengthened its role within the World Trade Organisation and in relation to the International Monetary Fund. It is just about to take up a rotating seat on the UN security council, which gives added importance to its foreign policy positions.The Brazilian human rights group, Conectas called on the Brazilian government to raise its concerns about human rights violations in Iran, both bilaterally during the visit, but also multilaterally at the UN. Brazil has abstained on resolutions criticising Iran's record in recent years and Conectas has said that a public vote for a resolution, which is expected to be tabled by the Canadian government next week, would send a strong signal to the Iranian authorities. Lucia Nader, the international relations co-ordinator of Conectas said: \"We understand international diplomacy and the importance of dialogue, but Brazil must make its concerns about human rights in Iran known publicly as well as through private bilateral exchanges.\"The Israeli government and its supporters have mounted a string of personalised attacks on human rights organisations in the aftermath of the Goldstone report on war crimes in Gaza, in a campaign which is probably weakening its longer-term interests and influence. There is no doubt who emerged as the winner from the latest round of diplomatic jousting between Israel and Iran in Brazil.While Lula did make references to the promotion of human rights in his press conference his much stronger emphasis was on the need to seek allies in his quest for reform of global institutions. \"We have argued for 15 years for changes at the United Nations and a reform of its security council \u2026 so that decisions may be taken on the basis of current reality and not a political grouping formed in 1948,\" he concluded. Ahmadinejad was smiling broadly as he echoed him saying: \"The governments of Iran and Brazil, including my friend Lula and I, are seeking to construct a world without hostility where there is no fear of war.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Iran", "United Nations", "World news", "Mahmoud Ahmadinejad", "Middle East and North Africa", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil and Iran must talk human rights | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-12-12T18:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazilians are world famous for their friendliness and so the handshakes, hugs and high fives were not unexpected. But they were not much compensation for the fact that I was locked in a room full of Command Vermelho (Red Command) prisoners \u2013 one of the deadliest armed groups in the world today \u2013 and the only guard on duty was down the other end of the corridor behind a bolted metal grill.I was being shown around a police lock-up in Rio de Janeiro by activists from Rio da Paz (Rio of Peace) who greeted the prisoners with equal enthusiasm. There were 600 people crammed into a two-wing block, each of which contained five cells with space for about 12 bunks in each. The heat was incredible and bodies were sprawled everywhere as people took it in turn to get some rest.Despite the friendliness, the atmosphere of underlying violence was extremely apparent. Rio is an undeclared war zone. A few weeks ago 12 people died in a single day in gun battles between Comando Vermelho and Amigos dos Amigos (Friends of Friends) during which a police helicopter was shot down. The police killed 1,137 people in Rio last year, down from their record of 1,330 the previous year, but still comparable with the total killed in Gaza during Israel's last offensive or the annual total in Darfur in recent years.Brazil's criminal gangs recruit most of their members in prison and organise many of their activities from there. Comando Vermelho controlled one of the wings that we were in while Amigos dos Amigos and Terceiro Commando (Third Force) were on the other. \"They would not last five minutes if they found themselves on the wrong wing,\" I was told. \"What if someone is not in a gang when they are arrested?\" I asked. \"The authorities just assign them to one in that case.\"Viewed from this perspective the 200% increase in the number of pre-trial detainees being held in Brazil that has occurred in the last 10 years is quite alarming. Many of the people being held have only been charged with extremely minor offences \u2013 such as shoplifting \u2013 but administrative inefficiencies in the conduct of trials means that it is not uncommon for them to spend longer on remand than their final sentence. Many should not even be there at all. The Brazilian judiciary have recently reopened the files in a number of states and found that around 20% of the people currently in prison should be released and a further 30% moved to lower security.Locking up petty thieves with hardened killers also provides the gangs with a steady stream of new recruits. Their leaders are responsible for the day to day administration of many prisons, controlling the distribution of food, medicine, and hygiene kits and enforcing whatever internal discipline exists. Two and half years ago the Primeiro Comando da Capital (PCC), S\u00e3o Paulo's most powerful crime gang, launched a series of co-ordinated attacks against police officers and prison staff in a protest over prison conditions, which resulted in around 450 killings. The PCC was initially formed by a group of prisoners to \"avenge the death of 111 prisoners\" who were killed during the suppression of a prison protest in 1992.Brazil is a good country to be a criminal because police detection rates for crime are very low and the legal system is so convoluted that trials can be drawn out for years. Its laws and constitution provide a whole range of rights and privileges to those who can hire private lawyers to claim them, but its legal aid system is weak to nonexistent and around 80% of its prison inmates are too poor to afford a lawyer.Documenting what is wrong with the current system is comparatively easy \u2013 although there are surprisingly few recent reports on the situation from groups like Amnesty International \u2013 it is knowing what to do about it that is the hard part. For years, human rights groups have called for new laws and institutions \u2013 which the Brazilian government is actually quite happy to introduce \u2013 but have largely ignored the dysfunctionality of the system as a whole. Brazil has entrenched the full range of human rights into its constitution and has some of the most liberal penal laws in the world. The problem is that \u2013 faced with one of the world's highest rates of violent crime \u2013 the people responsible for enforcing these laws are conspiring together to ensure that they don't work.Groups such as Rio da Paz and the Catholic church's Pastoral Carceraria, who are prepared to visit prisoners and provide them with basic assistance, are very few and far between, but with the state almost completely abdicating its responsibilities for penal management they are the only chance that most prisoners have got. Prison numbers are increasing across the country at a rate of 3,000 a month, so the pressure is now building at an alarming rate.It costs money to keep people locked up and money spent on prisons cannot be spent on developing alternative programmes. Imprisoning people for relatively minor offences has also been shown to be counterproductive and more likely to turn them into repeat offenders than a non-custodial sentence. There are, therefore, strong utilitarian reasons for trying to reduce the number of people that are sent to prison in Brazil and to use imprisonment only as a last resort. However, Brazil is not the only country in the world to be pursuing the opposite policy. Prison numbers are going up across the world and Brazil offers a frightening glimpse into what the future consequences of this could be.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Fuelling the war in Brazil | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-12-10T20:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "In an effort to stem the appreciation of its currency, the real, Brazil has twice resorted to capital controls. In response to these measures, IMF head Dominique Strauss-Kahn says capital controls are \"not something that come from hell\", but the IMF won't be recommending them any time soon to remedy the current crisis.Enough is enough. Given the economic evidence and in the wake of the current crisis, the IMF should change more than its rhetoric and do away with its Washington consensus policies by encouraging Brazil to strengthen its capital controls, not eliminate them.In some ways Brazil is a victim of its own success. With US and other western interest rates low and concern about the weakening of the US dollar high, investors have flocked to emerging markets. Brazil has been the most attractive, having rebounded much better than most. Brazil started growing again in the second quarter of 2009 and is set to grow by 3.5% in 2009.However, massive capital inflows this year have caused the Brazilian real to appreciate 34% on the dollar and over 40% over the Chinese yuan. This could make Brazil's exports less attractive, accentuate its current account balance, and potentially make Brazil slide back into its crisis-ridden 1990s.In response to these shocks, on 20 October Brazil placed a 2% tax on foreign exchange inflows. At first the controls seemed to have a positive effect. Shortly after they were announced the real slid by 2% and the stock market by 3%. Yet both markets regained ground.Despite the IMF's intransigence, taxes on inflows like Brazil's have a good track record. In a recent report by the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), Carmen Reinhart and Nicholas Magud assess the most rigorous studies on capital controls and conclude \"in sum, capital controls on inflows seem to make monetary policy more independent, alter the composition of capital flows and reduce real exchange rate pressures.\"Why then have Brazil's controls not had the desired effects? There are two reasons. First, the level of Brazil's tax is too low relative to the more successful cases analysed by Reinhart and Magud. Second, in globalised financial system, investors increasingly learn how to circumvent capital controls.Two of Brazil's neighbours, Chile and Colombia, have successfully used taxes on capital inflows. To dampen the effects of massive inflows in the wake of the earlier crises, both nations deployed an unremunerated reserve requirement (URR). A URR is a mandatory non-interest-bearing deposit in foreign currency at the Central Bank for a certain period in an amount proportional to the size of the capital flow (30% for Chile, 47% for Colombia). The tax equivalent of Chile's controls averaged 4.24% and was as high as 7.7%. Colombia's ranged from 6.4% to 13.6%.Each of these tax equivalents is almost two to seven times stronger than Brazil's current controls.Another reason why Brazil's controls aren't working is because investors have invented creative ways to circumvent them. According to another NBER report, by Bernandro Carvalho and Marcio Garcia, investors have loopholed controls by disguising short-term capital as foreign direct investment, through currency swaps and other derivatives, and by purchasing American depositary receipts (ADRs).ADRs are issued by US banks and allow investors to buy shares of firms outside the US \u2013 enabling investors to purchase Brazilian shares but in New York and thereby skirt controls in Brazil.In a step in the right direction, on November 18, Brazil moved to put a 1.5% tax on ADRs to stem speculating around the October controls. Thus, a Brazilian bank or investor that deposits shares with foreign banks will be charged the tax.How much is enough? At the time of writing it is not clear that Brazil's capital controls are stiff enough, or loophole-free enough. Rather than scorn Brazil, the IMF should be working to help Brazil design stronger and more effective ways to stem the rapid appreciation of its exchange rate. Enough with the business as usual, the IMF must change to reflect economic thinking and 21st century realities.", "tags": ["Brazil", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "Currencies", "Economics", "International trade", "World news", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Helping Brazil to help itself | Kevin Gallagher"},{"date": "2009-10-26T19:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The last time I saw Evandro da Silva, deputy head of the campaigning musical collective Afro-Reggae, he showed me a graphic video of police corruption and brutality in the city of Rio de Janeiro. The footage of his death last week was aired on national television and has shocked the whole of Brazil.Da Silva was killed during a street robbery in which two thieves stole his trainers and jacket. CCTV images show that the robbers were apprehended minutes later by two police officers, who must have also witnessed the shooting. Yet rather than arrest his killers, they took the trainers and jacket and then released them. The police made no attempt to save da Silva's life, and he died 50 minutes later.The everyday banality of the incident has brought home how out of control the city's police force has become. \"For a jacket and a tennis shoe two irresponsible police officers have confirmed the chronic incompetence of the Brazilian state,\" wrote Denis Mizne, the co-ordinator of Sou da Paz in an angry polemic in Floha do Sao Paulo, the country's leading newspaper.Last week's killing comes after a wave of gun battles have again ripped through Rio's favelas. Scores of people have died in a series of shoot-outs between the police and rival groups of drug traffickers, who even managed to shoot down a police helicopter. The police kill more than 1,000 people in Rio every year and there are numerous credible reports that many of these are the results of extra-judicial executions. Although such actions have been glamorised by films such as Tropa de Elite, for most of Rio's residents, the police are just another criminal faction fighting for control of the city.Rio recently was recently awarded the honour of hosting the 2016 Olympic games, which will come two years after a Brazilian World Cup in 2014. Brazilians have been indulging themselves in a wave of optimism in recent months. Rising exports, a commodities price boom and the government's investment in social policies have stimulated the economy and helped millions out of poverty. The country shrugged off the worldwide economic crisis, with only a slight dip in growth rates, and is hoping to capitalise on a boom from tourism and its sporting triumphs. After years of neglect and urban violence, it seemed that Rio again was on the rise.AfroReggae and Sou da Paz have been running pioneering social programmes in the favelas of Rio and Sao Paulo that are credited with helping to reduce the chronic violence that has blighted the country's reputation. Violence peaked in Brazil in 2003 when almost 50,000 people were shot dead. The murder rate has been falling since then, but is still considerably higher than most of the violent conflicts taking place anywhere else in the world today.I am working on a project looking at the issue of pre-trial detention in Brazil. The number of people being held in custody awaiting trial has almost quadrupled over the last 10 years, which has massively overstretched the capacity of the already overcrowded Brazilian penal system. Tens of thousands of people are being held in police lock-ups or improvised detention centres crammed dozens per cell or stuffed into container crates, which lack even the most basic facilities of hygiene and ventilation.Some commentators have linked the rising numbers being held in prison with the falling death rate, but a more detailed analysis of the figures does not bear this out. However, it may reflect a widely felt frustration about the inability of the Brazilian criminal justice system to process cases efficiently. Brazil's constitution and laws provide a whole range of theoretical rights and privileges to those who can afford lawyers to assert them. Cases are subject to endless appeals, which clog up the courts. The guilty often go unpunished or receive treatment far more lenient than their crimes deserve. Remanding people into custody at the start of the process may partly be an attempt by over-burdened judges to ensure that those accused of crimes do spend some time in prison. The police's shoot-to-kill policy stems from the same frustration.This obviously fails to differentiate between the guilty and innocent. It also means that people accused of the most minor offences are being locked up with murderers and gang leaders. Most of Brazil's prisons are effectively under the control of the criminal gangs who also wreak such violence on the streets. Every new prisoner is a potential new recruit and this policy is even officially recognised by the authorities, who ask them to choose which gang they belong to when making prison allocations. Prisoners who insist that they don't belong to a gang are often assigned to one for administrative convenience.An alternative policy needs to tackle the causes of crime as well as thoroughly overhaul the institutions of the Brazilian criminal justice system. Raising the pay of prison warders and police should obviously be a part of this strategy and so should tackling corruption and criminality in both forces. The problems of pre-trial detention can also not be divorced from the wider need for justice sector reform and for the chronic backlog of cases to be dealt with.\"We have left behind being a second-rate country to become a first-rate one,\" said Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, Brazil's popular president, on the day of the country's Olympic triumph. \"Respect is good and we are happy to receive it.\" But respect has to be earned as well and there is no point having a first-world society and economy while the Brazilian state remains firmly stuck in the third one.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil must stop the killing | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-11-25T18:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The world must engage, not isolate Iran, in the push for Middle East peace, said Brazil's President Lula after a three-hour private meeting with his Iranian counterpart, President Ahmadinejad, on Monday.Lula also said that Brazil supports Iran's rights to enjoy what he called \"the benefits of fuel and technology\". But he said Iran should negotiate with western nations for a \"just and balanced\" solution to concerns over its nuclear programme. The two leaders also issued a joint call for reform of the United Nations.Ahmadinejad became the first Iranian head of state to visit Brazil in 44 years and the trip was widely viewed as controversial. Originally scheduled for immediately after the presidential elections in Iran last June, it was postponed following the street protests that greeted the blatant rigging of this poll. However, Lula congratulated Ahmadinejad on his election \"victory\" and compared the protests to football fans whose side had lost a match. In September, he urged the west to stop pushing Iran over its nuclear programme and called for dialogue and engagement with Iran to foster peace.The government of Israel lobbied hard against the visit and it was met by widespread protests by Jewish groups as well as by Brazilian human rights organisations. Last week Israel's president, Shimon Peres, also came to Brazil in what was officially billed as a trade mission but widely seen as an attempt to upstage Ahmadinejad's visit. A press release expressed Israel's concern at what it described as \"Iranian infiltration\" in Latin America.In an address to Brazil's Congress, Peres pleaded that, \"There needs to be a voice against destruction and against terror, a clear voice. I know that Brazil rejects threats, destruction, rejects terror, and the clear voice of Brazil has a strong echo in the entire world. I don't want to argue about the president of Iran on Brazilian soil, but we think his policies are a global danger. The Iranian government is arming, is training terrorist movements such as Hamas and Hezbollah,\" he concluded. His visit included a trip to Argentina where Peres attended a memorial service for the victims of two bomb attacks, which killed over 100 people in the early 1990s and are widely believed to have been carried out by Iranian-backed Hezbollah. Iran's current minister for defence, Ahmad Vahidi, is wanted for questioning by Interpol for his alleged role in the planning of this attack.Iran has already forged close link with Hugo Ch\u00e1vez of Venezuela and Evo Morales of Bolivia. However, Lula is widely seen as more moderate than Ch\u00e1vez, and Morales and has helped to blunt some of Iran's wilder anti-US policies.Brazil is currently enjoying its strongest period of economic growth in recent years and has been developing a far more assertive foreign policy. It has opened scores of new embassies across the world and is making a particular effort to forge closer economic and diplomatic links with Africa, Asia and the Middle East. It is also enjoying increasing influence as an effective leader of the G20 group of developing countries and has recently strengthened its role within the World Trade Organisation and in relation to the International Monetary Fund. It is just about to take up a rotating seat on the UN security council, which gives added importance to its foreign policy positions.The Brazilian human rights group, Conectas called on the Brazilian government to raise its concerns about human rights violations in Iran, both bilaterally during the visit, but also multilaterally at the UN. Brazil has abstained on resolutions criticising Iran's record in recent years and Conectas has said that a public vote for a resolution, which is expected to be tabled by the Canadian government next week, would send a strong signal to the Iranian authorities. Lucia Nader, the international relations co-ordinator of Conectas said: \"We understand international diplomacy and the importance of dialogue, but Brazil must make its concerns about human rights in Iran known publicly as well as through private bilateral exchanges.\"The Israeli government and its supporters have mounted a string of personalised attacks on human rights organisations in the aftermath of the Goldstone report on war crimes in Gaza, in a campaign which is probably weakening its longer-term interests and influence. There is no doubt who emerged as the winner from the latest round of diplomatic jousting between Israel and Iran in Brazil.While Lula did make references to the promotion of human rights in his press conference his much stronger emphasis was on the need to seek allies in his quest for reform of global institutions. \"We have argued for 15 years for changes at the United Nations and a reform of its security council \u2026 so that decisions may be taken on the basis of current reality and not a political grouping formed in 1948,\" he concluded. Ahmadinejad was smiling broadly as he echoed him saying: \"The governments of Iran and Brazil, including my friend Lula and I, are seeking to construct a world without hostility where there is no fear of war.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Iran", "United Nations", "World news", "Mahmoud Ahmadinejad", "Middle East and North Africa", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil and Iran must talk human rights | Conor Foley"},{"date": "2009-11-13T00:25:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian government yesterday announced a \"historic\" drop in the deforestation of the Amazon, weeks before world leaders meet in Copenhagen for climate change talks.Brazilian authorities said that between August 2008 and July this year, deforestation in the world's largest tropical rainforest fell by the largest amount in more than 20 years, dropping by 45% from nearly 13,000 square kilometres to around 7,000 square kilometres (5,000 square miles to 2,700 square miles).\"It is an excellent figure \u2013 a historic result,\" the environment minister, Carlos Minc, said in the capital, Brasilia.\"It is a substantial drop,\" said the head of Brazil's Space Institute, Gilberto C\u00e2mara, according to the government news provider Ag\u00eancia Brasil. He claimed it was the most significant cut in deforestation since his institute started monitoring rainforest destruction with satellite technology in 1988.\"This is a very happy moment \u2013 to note that the efforts of Brazilian society to contain the deforestation of the Amazon have reached a very satisfactory level.\"The new figures, reportedly rushed out before the Copenhagen talks, come days after Brazil announced ambitious plans to cut carbon emissions by 2020, partly by continuing to battle illegal deforestation.This week, President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva's chief of staff, Dilma Rousseff, said her country would take proposals for voluntary reductions of 38-42% by 2020 to the Copenhagen summit. Britain's prime-minister, Gordon Brown, wrote to Brazil's president this week to congratulate him on the move.Environmentalists welcomed the news of a drop in rainforest destruction, with Greenpeace's Amazon director, Paulo Adario, claiming that, \"whenever the government followed the law, deforestation fell\". But he warned: \"We must stay alert so that this falling trend becomes consolidated and allows us to achieve the dream of zero deforestation in the Amazon. It is an important drop \u2013 but a lot of forest is still coming down.\"Rousseff said the figures showed the government had \"done its homework\" in order to combat illegal rainforest destruction. She pointed to federal police raids on illegal logging operations across the Amazon region, and government attempts to provide economic alternatives to destruction. Since February 2008 the government has been waging an \"unprecedented\" campaign against the loggers, dispatching hundreds of heavily armed agents to remote rainforest towns where destruction was out of control.But, in a statement, Greenpeace activists in Brazil said the world financial crisis had also played a part in silencing the chainsaws. \"The crisis \u2026 has contributed to helping put the breaks on the rhythm of destruction, with a fall in the demand for Amazon products linked to deforestation such as meat, soy and timber,\" Greenpeace said.Tellingly, Mato Grosso, a soy producing Amazonian state that has seen its forests ravished in recent years largely as a result of the Chinese demand for soy, saw a 65% drop in deforestation.\u2022 For news and analysis of the UN climate talks in Copenhagen sign up for the Guardian's environment email newsletter Greenlight", "tags": ["Deforestation", "World news", "Climate change", "Brazil", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Trees and forests", "Global climate talks", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil celebrates 45% reduction in Amazon deforestation"},{"date": "2010-01-03T17:28:48Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Floods and mudslides in Brazil have killed at least 76 people, including dozens buried when a hillside collapsed on a luxury beach resort.Emergency crews today used heavy equipment, shovels and bare hands to recover bodies from devastated parts of Rio de Janeiro state and two neighbouring states following days of torrential rain.Amid warnings of more heavy rain authorities advised tourists to leave Ilha Grande, a resort island, and Angra dos Reis, a mainland port city. President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva interrupted his vacation for an emergency meeting with civil defence officials.Rio de Janeiro's vice governor, Luiz Fernando Pezao, told Globo TV the death toll could rise. \"People had never seen so much rain in this region. We'll have to wait for the rescue efforts, but we'll likely encounter a very sad outcome.\" Nearly 80 mudslides have been reported throughout south-east Brazil in the past week.Among the worst hit was Ilha Grande, a former pirates' lair and leper colony which is now an upscale retreat boasting pristine rainforest and tropical beaches. At least 26 people died in the early hours of new year's day when a wall of mud and rock swept Pousada Sankay, a guesthouse, and three neighbouring houses into the Atlantic.Guests had just retired to their rooms following end of year celebrations when a reported 1000ft wide cascade hit. The 18-year-old daughter of the couple who built the waterfront lodge at the foot of a cliff was among the victims. Her parents survived. Authorities said no foreigners were known to have died.\"We came to celebrate the new year and then all this sadness happened,\" Fernanda de Oliveira, a witness, told the O Globo newspaper. \"We couldn't see what was happening. It was raining hard and the water was leaking into our house. Suddenly, we saw people in the sea and we went down to rescue them. They were people staying in the pousada.\"Wooden debris from the lodge floated near the shore. The hotel, which advertises nightly rates of about $200 and can accommodate 50 guests, was reportedly full.Television pictures showed about a 120-strong emergency team scouring through mud and toppled trees for survivors and corpses. Police helicopters and navy vessels helped in the search.Around the same time a separate mudslide hit the Carioca slum in Angra dos Reis, killing at least 13 people and splintering wooden shacks. The bodies were laid out in coffins in a school gymnasium.Firefighters in Minas Gerais state said three elderly people died when a mudslide hit their home, the state-run Agencia Estado reported.Six people from the same family were missing after a mudslide hit their house in the town of Cunha in Sao Paulo state, authorities said.Morgue authorities in Rio de Janeiro said all identified victims were Brazilian. They warned the death toll might double because many people remain missing.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Brazil", "World news", "Travel", "Brazil holidays", "Americas"], "title": "Floods kill scores in Brazil"},{"date": "2010-01-03T17:28:48Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Floods and mudslides in Brazil have killed at least 76 people, including dozens buried when a hillside collapsed on a luxury beach resort.Emergency crews today used heavy equipment, shovels and bare hands to recover bodies from devastated parts of Rio de Janeiro state and two neighbouring states following days of torrential rain.Amid warnings of more heavy rain authorities advised tourists to leave Ilha Grande, a resort island, and Angra dos Reis, a mainland port city. President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva interrupted his vacation for an emergency meeting with civil defence officials.Rio de Janeiro's vice governor, Luiz Fernando Pezao, told Globo TV the death toll could rise. \"People had never seen so much rain in this region. We'll have to wait for the rescue efforts, but we'll likely encounter a very sad outcome.\" Nearly 80 mudslides have been reported throughout south-east Brazil in the past week.Among the worst hit was Ilha Grande, a former pirates' lair and leper colony which is now an upscale retreat boasting pristine rainforest and tropical beaches. At least 26 people died in the early hours of new year's day when a wall of mud and rock swept Pousada Sankay, a guesthouse, and three neighbouring houses into the Atlantic.Guests had just retired to their rooms following end of year celebrations when a reported 1000ft wide cascade hit. The 18-year-old daughter of the couple who built the waterfront lodge at the foot of a cliff was among the victims. Her parents survived. Authorities said no foreigners were known to have died.\"We came to celebrate the new year and then all this sadness happened,\" Fernanda de Oliveira, a witness, told the O Globo newspaper. \"We couldn't see what was happening. It was raining hard and the water was leaking into our house. Suddenly, we saw people in the sea and we went down to rescue them. They were people staying in the pousada.\"Wooden debris from the lodge floated near the shore. The hotel, which advertises nightly rates of about $200 and can accommodate 50 guests, was reportedly full.Television pictures showed about a 120-strong emergency team scouring through mud and toppled trees for survivors and corpses. Police helicopters and navy vessels helped in the search.Around the same time a separate mudslide hit the Carioca slum in Angra dos Reis, killing at least 13 people and splintering wooden shacks. The bodies were laid out in coffins in a school gymnasium.Firefighters in Minas Gerais state said three elderly people died when a mudslide hit their home, the state-run Agencia Estado reported.Six people from the same family were missing after a mudslide hit their house in the town of Cunha in Sao Paulo state, authorities said.Morgue authorities in Rio de Janeiro said all identified victims were Brazilian. They warned the death toll might double because many people remain missing.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Brazil", "World news", "Travel", "Brazil holidays", "Americas"], "title": "Floods kill scores in Brazil"},{"date": "2010-03-04T08:53:31Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil last night rebuffed a US plea to back sanctions against Iran, setting the stage for a bruising diplomatic battle in the UN security council.President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva told the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, that he would not be bounced into a western-led effort to punish Tehran over its nuclear programme.Clinton, stopping in Brasilia during a Latin America tour, had hoped to build support for a UN resolution on sanctions against Iran. As a non-permanent member of the security council, Brazil does not have a veto, but its support is needed for a united front. Russia has signalled its support, but not China.Lula signalled the rebuff while briefing reporters shortly before meeting Clinton. \"It is not prudent to push Iran against a wall,\" he said. \"The prudent thing is to establish negotiations.\"He has irritated Washington by forging ties with Tehran and defending its stated aim of developing nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. The US and Europe accuse Iran of plotting to build atomic bombs. It has defied UN demands that it stop enriching uranium.Brazil's foreign minister, Celso Amorim, said there was room for two or three months' more negotiation with Iran. \"We still have some possibility of coming to an agreement \u2026 but that may require a lot of flexibility on both sides,\" he said at a news conference with Clinton after she met Lula. \"We will not simply bow down to the evolving consensus if we do not agree.\".Clinton expressed disappointment and said talks with Iran had got nowhere. \"Personally speaking, I think it's only after we pass sanctions in the security council that Iran will negotiate in good faith. That is my belief, that is our administration's belief: that once the international community speaks in unison around a resolution then the Iranians will come and begin to negotiate.\"She urged countries to be cautious about Iranian assurances of peaceful intentions. \"We have seen an Iran that runs to Brazil, an Iran that runs to Turkey and an Iran that runs to China, telling people different things to different people to avoid international sanctions,\" she said.Lula, a centre-leftist who has promoted Brazil as a diplomatic heavy-hitter, bearhugged President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad during his state visit to Brazil last November, and is due to visit Tehran in May. Supporters laud him for standing up to western pressure. Critics accuse him of naivety.Lula said Brazil did \"not support any move by Iran to go beyond the peaceful use of nuclear energy\" and that he planned to have a \"frank discussion\" with Ahmadinejad in May.Clinton's empty-handed departure from Brasilia came as the US and EU launched a fresh broadside against the Gulf state, accusing it of breaking nuclear transparency rules by escalating uranium enrichment without UN surveillance. They spoke at a tense International Atomic Energy Agency meeting in Vienna. China reportedly reiterated its opposition to sanctions, saying the time was not right.Clinton's visit was further clouded by a trade dispute. Brazil said it would retaliate against US cotton subsidies next month unless the long-standing row is resolved.South America's farming giant next week would publish a list of US products on which tariffs would be imposed, said Amorim. The sanctions would take effect 30 days later. \"So there will be time to negotiate,\" he added.The World Trade Organisation granted Brazil permission to impose sanctions on US imports last November after ruling the US government spent too much on subsidies for cotton farmers and on an export credit guarantee programme.Clinton said Washington would unveil a proposed solution next week. \"There is so much trade between our two countries that we hope we are able to work through this issue and get to a resolution.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Hillary Clinton", "Iran", "Mahmoud Ahmadinejad", "International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)", "United Nations", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil stands up to US over Iran sanctions"},{"date": "2010-01-03T17:28:48Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Floods and mudslides in Brazil have killed at least 76 people, including dozens buried when a hillside collapsed on a luxury beach resort.Emergency crews today used heavy equipment, shovels and bare hands to recover bodies from devastated parts of Rio de Janeiro state and two neighbouring states following days of torrential rain.Amid warnings of more heavy rain authorities advised tourists to leave Ilha Grande, a resort island, and Angra dos Reis, a mainland port city. President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva interrupted his vacation for an emergency meeting with civil defence officials.Rio de Janeiro's vice governor, Luiz Fernando Pezao, told Globo TV the death toll could rise. \"People had never seen so much rain in this region. We'll have to wait for the rescue efforts, but we'll likely encounter a very sad outcome.\" Nearly 80 mudslides have been reported throughout south-east Brazil in the past week.Among the worst hit was Ilha Grande, a former pirates' lair and leper colony which is now an upscale retreat boasting pristine rainforest and tropical beaches. At least 26 people died in the early hours of new year's day when a wall of mud and rock swept Pousada Sankay, a guesthouse, and three neighbouring houses into the Atlantic.Guests had just retired to their rooms following end of year celebrations when a reported 1000ft wide cascade hit. The 18-year-old daughter of the couple who built the waterfront lodge at the foot of a cliff was among the victims. Her parents survived. Authorities said no foreigners were known to have died.\"We came to celebrate the new year and then all this sadness happened,\" Fernanda de Oliveira, a witness, told the O Globo newspaper. \"We couldn't see what was happening. It was raining hard and the water was leaking into our house. Suddenly, we saw people in the sea and we went down to rescue them. They were people staying in the pousada.\"Wooden debris from the lodge floated near the shore. The hotel, which advertises nightly rates of about $200 and can accommodate 50 guests, was reportedly full.Television pictures showed about a 120-strong emergency team scouring through mud and toppled trees for survivors and corpses. Police helicopters and navy vessels helped in the search.Around the same time a separate mudslide hit the Carioca slum in Angra dos Reis, killing at least 13 people and splintering wooden shacks. The bodies were laid out in coffins in a school gymnasium.Firefighters in Minas Gerais state said three elderly people died when a mudslide hit their home, the state-run Agencia Estado reported.Six people from the same family were missing after a mudslide hit their house in the town of Cunha in Sao Paulo state, authorities said.Morgue authorities in Rio de Janeiro said all identified victims were Brazilian. They warned the death toll might double because many people remain missing.", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Brazil", "World news", "Travel", "Brazil holidays", "Americas"], "title": "Floods kill scores in Brazil"},{"date": "2010-03-04T08:53:31Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil last night rebuffed a US plea to back sanctions against Iran, setting the stage for a bruising diplomatic battle in the UN security council.President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva told the US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, that he would not be bounced into a western-led effort to punish Tehran over its nuclear programme.Clinton, stopping in Brasilia during a Latin America tour, had hoped to build support for a UN resolution on sanctions against Iran. As a non-permanent member of the security council, Brazil does not have a veto, but its support is needed for a united front. Russia has signalled its support, but not China.Lula signalled the rebuff while briefing reporters shortly before meeting Clinton. \"It is not prudent to push Iran against a wall,\" he said. \"The prudent thing is to establish negotiations.\"He has irritated Washington by forging ties with Tehran and defending its stated aim of developing nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. The US and Europe accuse Iran of plotting to build atomic bombs. It has defied UN demands that it stop enriching uranium.Brazil's foreign minister, Celso Amorim, said there was room for two or three months' more negotiation with Iran. \"We still have some possibility of coming to an agreement \u2026 but that may require a lot of flexibility on both sides,\" he said at a news conference with Clinton after she met Lula. \"We will not simply bow down to the evolving consensus if we do not agree.\".Clinton expressed disappointment and said talks with Iran had got nowhere. \"Personally speaking, I think it's only after we pass sanctions in the security council that Iran will negotiate in good faith. That is my belief, that is our administration's belief: that once the international community speaks in unison around a resolution then the Iranians will come and begin to negotiate.\"She urged countries to be cautious about Iranian assurances of peaceful intentions. \"We have seen an Iran that runs to Brazil, an Iran that runs to Turkey and an Iran that runs to China, telling people different things to different people to avoid international sanctions,\" she said.Lula, a centre-leftist who has promoted Brazil as a diplomatic heavy-hitter, bearhugged President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad during his state visit to Brazil last November, and is due to visit Tehran in May. Supporters laud him for standing up to western pressure. Critics accuse him of naivety.Lula said Brazil did \"not support any move by Iran to go beyond the peaceful use of nuclear energy\" and that he planned to have a \"frank discussion\" with Ahmadinejad in May.Clinton's empty-handed departure from Brasilia came as the US and EU launched a fresh broadside against the Gulf state, accusing it of breaking nuclear transparency rules by escalating uranium enrichment without UN surveillance. They spoke at a tense International Atomic Energy Agency meeting in Vienna. China reportedly reiterated its opposition to sanctions, saying the time was not right.Clinton's visit was further clouded by a trade dispute. Brazil said it would retaliate against US cotton subsidies next month unless the long-standing row is resolved.South America's farming giant next week would publish a list of US products on which tariffs would be imposed, said Amorim. The sanctions would take effect 30 days later. \"So there will be time to negotiate,\" he added.The World Trade Organisation granted Brazil permission to impose sanctions on US imports last November after ruling the US government spent too much on subsidies for cotton farmers and on an export credit guarantee programme.Clinton said Washington would unveil a proposed solution next week. \"There is so much trade between our two countries that we hope we are able to work through this issue and get to a resolution.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Hillary Clinton", "Iran", "Mahmoud Ahmadinejad", "International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)", "United Nations", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil stands up to US over Iran sanctions"},{"date": "2010-02-21T16:40:19Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's ruling Workers' party has nominated President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva's chief of staff, Dilma Rousseff, to replace him, raising the prospect of the country's first woman president.Lula, who cannot stand for a third term, picked the 62-year-old guerrilla leader turned economist to carry his centre-left banner in October's election.A party congress endorsed her with a banner which read \"With Dilma, along the path that Lula showed us\".Rousseff has never run for public office and lags behind a conservative rival, Sao Paulo governor Jose Serra, but polls show the gap narrowing.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Dilma Rousseff", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil could have first woman president after Lula picks successor"},{"date": "2010-06-17T19:02:15Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Four years ago, when the government of Evo Morales re-nationalised its hydrocarbon industry, the Brazilian media was spoiling for a fight. After all, Petrobras, the Brazilian oil and gas company, had major interests there. But President Lula Da Silva was calm. \"I haven't had a fight with George W Bush,\" he told the press. \"Why should I fight with Evo?\"In four months Brazil will elect a new president, and the main opposition candidate, Jose Serra of the Brazilian Social Democratic Party (PSDB), has shown more interest in this kind of a fight. Last month he declared: \"Eighty to ninety percent of the cocaine [here] comes from Bolivia \u2026 Do you think that Bolivia could export 90% of the cocaine consumed in Brazil without the government being an accomplice? Impossible. The Bolivian government is complicit in this.\"He has also attacked Brazil's mediation efforts and relations with Iran, and indicated he would weaken Mercosur, the South American regional trading block. Serra is running against Workers' party candidate Dilma Rousseff, a former energy minister and chief of staff for President Lula, who strongly defends the government's foreign policy.The Brazilian right has also been hostile to Venezuela, with rightwing senators holding up its membership in Mercosur for more than three years and joining US-led propaganda campaigns against Venezuela's president, Hugo Ch\u00e1vez. Much as in the US, the major media has presented a caricature of Venezuela and the Ch\u00e1vez government, with some influence on public opinion. Serra has so far avoided attacking Venezuela, perhaps because he knows that Ch\u00e1vez could hit back hard and push these foreign policy issues to a higher profile than he may want for the campaign. In elections over the last few years in Peru, Mexico, El Salvador, Nicaragua, and other countries, the rightwing candidates \u2013 successfully in the first two contests \u2013 literally ran against Ch\u00e1vez as if he were their opponent. It is unlikely that the PSDB would want this to be the centre of their campaign; it would not sway many Brazilian voters.Indeed, the PSDB may be treading a fine line. There has been a huge historic transformation in Latin America, and especially South America, over the past decade. The region has become vastly more independent of the US, and has clearly benefitted from this enormous, epoch-making change. Although there is a powerful part of the Brazilian political and media elite that is uncomfortable with these changes, and would prefer to roll things back to a cosier relationship with Washington, this is risky. The PSDB would not want to be perceived as being on the wrong side of this historic transition.Even with respect to Bolivia, most of the voters that the PSDB is trying to reach would probably understand that it makes no sense to attack Bolivia for the illegal drug trade in Brazil. The government of Evo Morales has fought against drug trafficking (pdf) with more effort and less corruption than its predecessors; there is a clear distinction for the Morales government between coca, which is a legal, mild stimulant that has been part of Bolivia's culture for centuries, and cocaine. Try telling Americans to give up their coffee. If Brazil wants to reduce drug trafficking it will find in Bolivia a willing partner. If the decades-long failure of Washington's so-called \"war on drugs\" has proven anything, it's that drug trafficking is overwhelmingly a demand-side problem (pdf), and eradication of one source of raw materials leads to geographical shifts in production. It is not clear that Serra's attacks on Lula's diplomatic efforts in the Middle East will be any more successful. The nuclear fuel-swap agreement that Brazil and Turkey negotiated with Iran last month was a historic breakthrough in international diplomacy. It was also what Obama had asked Lula to try and arrange just three weeks earlier, although the Brazilian government had to leak a letter from Obama to prove it, after US secretary of state Hillary Clinton reacted with hostility to the agreement. Nonetheless, the end result is that Brazil helped preserve a space for a negotiated settlement at a time when the Obama administration is caving to pressure from rightwing elements in Congress who want him to abandon this strategy, thus escalating the chances of eventual military confrontation. And although some trigger-happy columnists whined, the Obama administration ultimately had to accept Brazil's efforts without even a hint that US-Brazilian relations would be negatively affected.Jos\u00e9 Serra is not a rightwing politician by nature; as health minister he stood up to powerful foreign pharmaceutical companies backed by the US in order to secure lower prices for generic essential medicines. So why would he, and his party, promote such a rightwing foreign policy?The answer is most likely that the economy has done much better during Lula's eight years than during the previous eight years of the PSDB, including its growth. With major real increases in the minimum wage, an expansion of the bolsa familia programme for the poor and a mortgage credit for home buyers of modest means, it won't be that easy to campaign against Dilma and the Workers' party on economic issues. The Republicans in the United States have long targeted swing voters on non-economic issues, including the pretence that their party was somehow \"tougher\" on foreign policy. It was their best possible strategy for most of the last four decades, and of course when the recession finally focused these voters' attention on economic issues in 2008, they lost everything. But Brazil is not the United States. Lula and his foreign minister Celso Amorim have made a strong case for trying to prevent another horrible, unnecessary war in the Middle East; and for the benefits of solidarity, independence, and regional integration in South America. This positive message is more likely to win votes in Brazil.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil gears up for a fight | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-06-17T19:02:15Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Four years ago, when the government of Evo Morales re-nationalised its hydrocarbon industry, the Brazilian media was spoiling for a fight. After all, Petrobras, the Brazilian oil and gas company, had major interests there. But President Lula Da Silva was calm. \"I haven't had a fight with George W Bush,\" he told the press. \"Why should I fight with Evo?\"In four months Brazil will elect a new president, and the main opposition candidate, Jose Serra of the Brazilian Social Democratic Party (PSDB), has shown more interest in this kind of a fight. Last month he declared: \"Eighty to ninety percent of the cocaine [here] comes from Bolivia \u2026 Do you think that Bolivia could export 90% of the cocaine consumed in Brazil without the government being an accomplice? Impossible. The Bolivian government is complicit in this.\"He has also attacked Brazil's mediation efforts and relations with Iran, and indicated he would weaken Mercosur, the South American regional trading block. Serra is running against Workers' party candidate Dilma Rousseff, a former energy minister and chief of staff for President Lula, who strongly defends the government's foreign policy.The Brazilian right has also been hostile to Venezuela, with rightwing senators holding up its membership in Mercosur for more than three years and joining US-led propaganda campaigns against Venezuela's president, Hugo Ch\u00e1vez. Much as in the US, the major media has presented a caricature of Venezuela and the Ch\u00e1vez government, with some influence on public opinion. Serra has so far avoided attacking Venezuela, perhaps because he knows that Ch\u00e1vez could hit back hard and push these foreign policy issues to a higher profile than he may want for the campaign. In elections over the last few years in Peru, Mexico, El Salvador, Nicaragua, and other countries, the rightwing candidates \u2013 successfully in the first two contests \u2013 literally ran against Ch\u00e1vez as if he were their opponent. It is unlikely that the PSDB would want this to be the centre of their campaign; it would not sway many Brazilian voters.Indeed, the PSDB may be treading a fine line. There has been a huge historic transformation in Latin America, and especially South America, over the past decade. The region has become vastly more independent of the US, and has clearly benefitted from this enormous, epoch-making change. Although there is a powerful part of the Brazilian political and media elite that is uncomfortable with these changes, and would prefer to roll things back to a cosier relationship with Washington, this is risky. The PSDB would not want to be perceived as being on the wrong side of this historic transition.Even with respect to Bolivia, most of the voters that the PSDB is trying to reach would probably understand that it makes no sense to attack Bolivia for the illegal drug trade in Brazil. The government of Evo Morales has fought against drug trafficking (pdf) with more effort and less corruption than its predecessors; there is a clear distinction for the Morales government between coca, which is a legal, mild stimulant that has been part of Bolivia's culture for centuries, and cocaine. Try telling Americans to give up their coffee. If Brazil wants to reduce drug trafficking it will find in Bolivia a willing partner. If the decades-long failure of Washington's so-called \"war on drugs\" has proven anything, it's that drug trafficking is overwhelmingly a demand-side problem (pdf), and eradication of one source of raw materials leads to geographical shifts in production. It is not clear that Serra's attacks on Lula's diplomatic efforts in the Middle East will be any more successful. The nuclear fuel-swap agreement that Brazil and Turkey negotiated with Iran last month was a historic breakthrough in international diplomacy. It was also what Obama had asked Lula to try and arrange just three weeks earlier, although the Brazilian government had to leak a letter from Obama to prove it, after US secretary of state Hillary Clinton reacted with hostility to the agreement. Nonetheless, the end result is that Brazil helped preserve a space for a negotiated settlement at a time when the Obama administration is caving to pressure from rightwing elements in Congress who want him to abandon this strategy, thus escalating the chances of eventual military confrontation. And although some trigger-happy columnists whined, the Obama administration ultimately had to accept Brazil's efforts without even a hint that US-Brazilian relations would be negatively affected.Jos\u00e9 Serra is not a rightwing politician by nature; as health minister he stood up to powerful foreign pharmaceutical companies backed by the US in order to secure lower prices for generic essential medicines. So why would he, and his party, promote such a rightwing foreign policy?The answer is most likely that the economy has done much better during Lula's eight years than during the previous eight years of the PSDB, including its growth. With major real increases in the minimum wage, an expansion of the bolsa familia programme for the poor and a mortgage credit for home buyers of modest means, it won't be that easy to campaign against Dilma and the Workers' party on economic issues. The Republicans in the United States have long targeted swing voters on non-economic issues, including the pretence that their party was somehow \"tougher\" on foreign policy. It was their best possible strategy for most of the last four decades, and of course when the recession finally focused these voters' attention on economic issues in 2008, they lost everything. But Brazil is not the United States. Lula and his foreign minister Celso Amorim have made a strong case for trying to prevent another horrible, unnecessary war in the Middle East; and for the benefits of solidarity, independence, and regional integration in South America. This positive message is more likely to win votes in Brazil.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil gears up for a fight | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-06-15T13:00:57Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is keeping a watchful eye on the environmental disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. It is among the countries most likely to suffer an accident similar to Deepwater Horizon, having engaged in the exploration and exploitation of huge oil and gas fields in the Atlantic depths.Brazil's industry regulator, the National Oil Agency (ANP), and the main oil company, Petrobras, won't comment on the disaster. They are, however, reacting very quietly, and behind the scenes.Petrobras's management told parliament in May that its rescue teams were ready to intervene within 24 hours at the most on any of the rigs in mainland Brazil and within eight hours on the most remote offshore fields.Brazil has for several years led the way in deep-water exploration, but its expertise has come at a price: in 1984 an explosion started a fire on the Enchova Central rig and 42 lives were lost during its evacuation; four years later another explosion destroyed the same rig, but no one was killed.The discovery in 2006 of oil fields at a depth of more than 7,000 metres, below a thick (2,200 metre) crust of salt, heralded a new era in oil prospecting in Brazil, plagued by many uncertainties. The deepest level from which Petrobras had previously extracted oil was about 1,800 metres, a world record in itself.The experts say there are bound to be surprises. \"At that depth, with such high pressure, we cannot claim to be ready for any eventuality,\" says Segen Estefen, the head of a university laboratory that works with Petrobras.It is a huge technological challenge. Little or nothing is known about the 120m-year-old porous, carboniferous rocks that contain the oil. At 4\u00b0C, the sea water is cold enough for there to be a risk of paraffin solidifying in the risers. The pressure also means the pipes need to be reinforced. The sediment on top of the salt is unstable too, making it difficult to anchor the oil rigs.But the main hazard is corrosion caused by the high carbon-dioxide content of the fields. When it comes into contact with water it produces carbonic acid, making it necessary to invent new nickel-enriched alloys, which are tougher and lighter.The recently discovered Pre-sal fields contain 50bn to 100bn barrels of proven reserves, which should make Brazil the world's fourth-largest producer by 2030. With that exploration will come risks.This story was first published in Le Monde.", "tags": ["World news", "Brazil", "Oil", "Oil", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil quietly secures its offshore oil platforms"},{"date": "2010-06-17T19:02:15Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Four years ago, when the government of Evo Morales re-nationalised its hydrocarbon industry, the Brazilian media was spoiling for a fight. After all, Petrobras, the Brazilian oil and gas company, had major interests there. But President Lula Da Silva was calm. \"I haven't had a fight with George W Bush,\" he told the press. \"Why should I fight with Evo?\"In four months Brazil will elect a new president, and the main opposition candidate, Jose Serra of the Brazilian Social Democratic Party (PSDB), has shown more interest in this kind of a fight. Last month he declared: \"Eighty to ninety percent of the cocaine [here] comes from Bolivia \u2026 Do you think that Bolivia could export 90% of the cocaine consumed in Brazil without the government being an accomplice? Impossible. The Bolivian government is complicit in this.\"He has also attacked Brazil's mediation efforts and relations with Iran, and indicated he would weaken Mercosur, the South American regional trading block. Serra is running against Workers' party candidate Dilma Rousseff, a former energy minister and chief of staff for President Lula, who strongly defends the government's foreign policy.The Brazilian right has also been hostile to Venezuela, with rightwing senators holding up its membership in Mercosur for more than three years and joining US-led propaganda campaigns against Venezuela's president, Hugo Ch\u00e1vez. Much as in the US, the major media has presented a caricature of Venezuela and the Ch\u00e1vez government, with some influence on public opinion. Serra has so far avoided attacking Venezuela, perhaps because he knows that Ch\u00e1vez could hit back hard and push these foreign policy issues to a higher profile than he may want for the campaign. In elections over the last few years in Peru, Mexico, El Salvador, Nicaragua, and other countries, the rightwing candidates \u2013 successfully in the first two contests \u2013 literally ran against Ch\u00e1vez as if he were their opponent. It is unlikely that the PSDB would want this to be the centre of their campaign; it would not sway many Brazilian voters.Indeed, the PSDB may be treading a fine line. There has been a huge historic transformation in Latin America, and especially South America, over the past decade. The region has become vastly more independent of the US, and has clearly benefitted from this enormous, epoch-making change. Although there is a powerful part of the Brazilian political and media elite that is uncomfortable with these changes, and would prefer to roll things back to a cosier relationship with Washington, this is risky. The PSDB would not want to be perceived as being on the wrong side of this historic transition.Even with respect to Bolivia, most of the voters that the PSDB is trying to reach would probably understand that it makes no sense to attack Bolivia for the illegal drug trade in Brazil. The government of Evo Morales has fought against drug trafficking (pdf) with more effort and less corruption than its predecessors; there is a clear distinction for the Morales government between coca, which is a legal, mild stimulant that has been part of Bolivia's culture for centuries, and cocaine. Try telling Americans to give up their coffee. If Brazil wants to reduce drug trafficking it will find in Bolivia a willing partner. If the decades-long failure of Washington's so-called \"war on drugs\" has proven anything, it's that drug trafficking is overwhelmingly a demand-side problem (pdf), and eradication of one source of raw materials leads to geographical shifts in production. It is not clear that Serra's attacks on Lula's diplomatic efforts in the Middle East will be any more successful. The nuclear fuel-swap agreement that Brazil and Turkey negotiated with Iran last month was a historic breakthrough in international diplomacy. It was also what Obama had asked Lula to try and arrange just three weeks earlier, although the Brazilian government had to leak a letter from Obama to prove it, after US secretary of state Hillary Clinton reacted with hostility to the agreement. Nonetheless, the end result is that Brazil helped preserve a space for a negotiated settlement at a time when the Obama administration is caving to pressure from rightwing elements in Congress who want him to abandon this strategy, thus escalating the chances of eventual military confrontation. And although some trigger-happy columnists whined, the Obama administration ultimately had to accept Brazil's efforts without even a hint that US-Brazilian relations would be negatively affected.Jos\u00e9 Serra is not a rightwing politician by nature; as health minister he stood up to powerful foreign pharmaceutical companies backed by the US in order to secure lower prices for generic essential medicines. So why would he, and his party, promote such a rightwing foreign policy?The answer is most likely that the economy has done much better during Lula's eight years than during the previous eight years of the PSDB, including its growth. With major real increases in the minimum wage, an expansion of the bolsa familia programme for the poor and a mortgage credit for home buyers of modest means, it won't be that easy to campaign against Dilma and the Workers' party on economic issues. The Republicans in the United States have long targeted swing voters on non-economic issues, including the pretence that their party was somehow \"tougher\" on foreign policy. It was their best possible strategy for most of the last four decades, and of course when the recession finally focused these voters' attention on economic issues in 2008, they lost everything. But Brazil is not the United States. Lula and his foreign minister Celso Amorim have made a strong case for trying to prevent another horrible, unnecessary war in the Middle East; and for the benefits of solidarity, independence, and regional integration in South America. This positive message is more likely to win votes in Brazil.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil gears up for a fight | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-06-15T13:00:57Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is keeping a watchful eye on the environmental disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. It is among the countries most likely to suffer an accident similar to Deepwater Horizon, having engaged in the exploration and exploitation of huge oil and gas fields in the Atlantic depths.Brazil's industry regulator, the National Oil Agency (ANP), and the main oil company, Petrobras, won't comment on the disaster. They are, however, reacting very quietly, and behind the scenes.Petrobras's management told parliament in May that its rescue teams were ready to intervene within 24 hours at the most on any of the rigs in mainland Brazil and within eight hours on the most remote offshore fields.Brazil has for several years led the way in deep-water exploration, but its expertise has come at a price: in 1984 an explosion started a fire on the Enchova Central rig and 42 lives were lost during its evacuation; four years later another explosion destroyed the same rig, but no one was killed.The discovery in 2006 of oil fields at a depth of more than 7,000 metres, below a thick (2,200 metre) crust of salt, heralded a new era in oil prospecting in Brazil, plagued by many uncertainties. The deepest level from which Petrobras had previously extracted oil was about 1,800 metres, a world record in itself.The experts say there are bound to be surprises. \"At that depth, with such high pressure, we cannot claim to be ready for any eventuality,\" says Segen Estefen, the head of a university laboratory that works with Petrobras.It is a huge technological challenge. Little or nothing is known about the 120m-year-old porous, carboniferous rocks that contain the oil. At 4\u00b0C, the sea water is cold enough for there to be a risk of paraffin solidifying in the risers. The pressure also means the pipes need to be reinforced. The sediment on top of the salt is unstable too, making it difficult to anchor the oil rigs.But the main hazard is corrosion caused by the high carbon-dioxide content of the fields. When it comes into contact with water it produces carbonic acid, making it necessary to invent new nickel-enriched alloys, which are tougher and lighter.The recently discovered Pre-sal fields contain 50bn to 100bn barrels of proven reserves, which should make Brazil the world's fourth-largest producer by 2030. With that exploration will come risks.This story was first published in Le Monde.", "tags": ["World news", "Brazil", "Oil", "Oil", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil quietly secures its offshore oil platforms"},{"date": "2010-06-02T12:51:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has made spectacular progress in reducing child labour over the past 15 years. According to a study by the Brazilian Institute of Applied Economic Research (IPEA), the number of working children aged between five and 14 fell by more than half between 1992 and 2008. It is now estimated at 1.7 million, or 5% in this age group, compared with 13% in 1992.According to Brazil's federal constitution \u2013 as well as Convention 138 of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) \u2013 no child aged under 16 may work, with the exception of children over 14 who are in a professional apprenticeship.Brazil is ahead of the ILO target to reduce child labour by between a third and a half within 25 years, and holds fourth place for best performance in Latin America, behind Colombia and Costa Rica.The reason lies in the efficient implementation of the programme to eradicate child labour launched in the 1990s, which cracked down on the most blatant abuse and provided financial incentives for families to send their children to school.In 2003, the programme was merged with the government's anti-poverty programme, the bolsa familia (family welfare,) that has been President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva's greatest social success. This \"conditional cash transfer programme\", as the economists call it, works on a simple principle: the state pays a monthly allowance to poor and very poor families on condition their children go to school and are up to date with their vaccinations.Children and teenagers from six to 15 must attend at least 85% of classes, and those aged between 16 and 17 must attend 75%.The amount \u2013 mostly collected and managed by mothers \u2013 depends on the family income and number of children. A family with a monthly per capita income below 70 reals ($38) is considered very poor and would receive a basic subsidy of 68 reals, with or without children. Both poor and very poor families are paid 22 reals ($12) per child under 15 at school, up to a maximum of three children, and 33 reals for those under 17 at school, up to a maximum of two.In all, 46 million people from 12.4 million families benefit from the bolsa familia, or one Brazilian in four.Ricardo Paes de Barros, author of the IPEA study, said the programme had played a \"crucial role\" in the fight against child labour. But the battle has yet to be won, notably in the poor inland regions of the north and the arid Nordeste region. More than four out of 10 children work in agriculture, and whether they work or not, 14\u00a0million children and teenagers still do not attend school in Brazil.Kinshu Kumar, 14, from Uttar Pradesh in India, may have been the youngest participant at the Global Child Labour Conference in The Hague last month, but he is a veteran in the struggle.Kinshu says that his first life ended six-and-a-half years ago when he stopped washing cars in the streets with his parents and began his fight to stop child labour. In India, 8.6 million children aged between five and 14 work; 45.2 million are not in school.Inspired by the Indian activist Kailash Satyarthi, who initiated the Global March Against Child Labour in 1998, he is not impressed by world leaders. His message is clear: \"You have the laws, you have the money. Now get down to work!\" Brigitte PeruccaThis article first appeared in Le Monde.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Education", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil halves the percentage of children working"},{"date": "2010-06-17T19:02:15Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Four years ago, when the government of Evo Morales re-nationalised its hydrocarbon industry, the Brazilian media was spoiling for a fight. After all, Petrobras, the Brazilian oil and gas company, had major interests there. But President Lula Da Silva was calm. \"I haven't had a fight with George W Bush,\" he told the press. \"Why should I fight with Evo?\"In four months Brazil will elect a new president, and the main opposition candidate, Jose Serra of the Brazilian Social Democratic Party (PSDB), has shown more interest in this kind of a fight. Last month he declared: \"Eighty to ninety percent of the cocaine [here] comes from Bolivia \u2026 Do you think that Bolivia could export 90% of the cocaine consumed in Brazil without the government being an accomplice? Impossible. The Bolivian government is complicit in this.\"He has also attacked Brazil's mediation efforts and relations with Iran, and indicated he would weaken Mercosur, the South American regional trading block. Serra is running against Workers' party candidate Dilma Rousseff, a former energy minister and chief of staff for President Lula, who strongly defends the government's foreign policy.The Brazilian right has also been hostile to Venezuela, with rightwing senators holding up its membership in Mercosur for more than three years and joining US-led propaganda campaigns against Venezuela's president, Hugo Ch\u00e1vez. Much as in the US, the major media has presented a caricature of Venezuela and the Ch\u00e1vez government, with some influence on public opinion. Serra has so far avoided attacking Venezuela, perhaps because he knows that Ch\u00e1vez could hit back hard and push these foreign policy issues to a higher profile than he may want for the campaign. In elections over the last few years in Peru, Mexico, El Salvador, Nicaragua, and other countries, the rightwing candidates \u2013 successfully in the first two contests \u2013 literally ran against Ch\u00e1vez as if he were their opponent. It is unlikely that the PSDB would want this to be the centre of their campaign; it would not sway many Brazilian voters.Indeed, the PSDB may be treading a fine line. There has been a huge historic transformation in Latin America, and especially South America, over the past decade. The region has become vastly more independent of the US, and has clearly benefitted from this enormous, epoch-making change. Although there is a powerful part of the Brazilian political and media elite that is uncomfortable with these changes, and would prefer to roll things back to a cosier relationship with Washington, this is risky. The PSDB would not want to be perceived as being on the wrong side of this historic transition.Even with respect to Bolivia, most of the voters that the PSDB is trying to reach would probably understand that it makes no sense to attack Bolivia for the illegal drug trade in Brazil. The government of Evo Morales has fought against drug trafficking (pdf) with more effort and less corruption than its predecessors; there is a clear distinction for the Morales government between coca, which is a legal, mild stimulant that has been part of Bolivia's culture for centuries, and cocaine. Try telling Americans to give up their coffee. If Brazil wants to reduce drug trafficking it will find in Bolivia a willing partner. If the decades-long failure of Washington's so-called \"war on drugs\" has proven anything, it's that drug trafficking is overwhelmingly a demand-side problem (pdf), and eradication of one source of raw materials leads to geographical shifts in production. It is not clear that Serra's attacks on Lula's diplomatic efforts in the Middle East will be any more successful. The nuclear fuel-swap agreement that Brazil and Turkey negotiated with Iran last month was a historic breakthrough in international diplomacy. It was also what Obama had asked Lula to try and arrange just three weeks earlier, although the Brazilian government had to leak a letter from Obama to prove it, after US secretary of state Hillary Clinton reacted with hostility to the agreement. Nonetheless, the end result is that Brazil helped preserve a space for a negotiated settlement at a time when the Obama administration is caving to pressure from rightwing elements in Congress who want him to abandon this strategy, thus escalating the chances of eventual military confrontation. And although some trigger-happy columnists whined, the Obama administration ultimately had to accept Brazil's efforts without even a hint that US-Brazilian relations would be negatively affected.Jos\u00e9 Serra is not a rightwing politician by nature; as health minister he stood up to powerful foreign pharmaceutical companies backed by the US in order to secure lower prices for generic essential medicines. So why would he, and his party, promote such a rightwing foreign policy?The answer is most likely that the economy has done much better during Lula's eight years than during the previous eight years of the PSDB, including its growth. With major real increases in the minimum wage, an expansion of the bolsa familia programme for the poor and a mortgage credit for home buyers of modest means, it won't be that easy to campaign against Dilma and the Workers' party on economic issues. The Republicans in the United States have long targeted swing voters on non-economic issues, including the pretence that their party was somehow \"tougher\" on foreign policy. It was their best possible strategy for most of the last four decades, and of course when the recession finally focused these voters' attention on economic issues in 2008, they lost everything. But Brazil is not the United States. Lula and his foreign minister Celso Amorim have made a strong case for trying to prevent another horrible, unnecessary war in the Middle East; and for the benefits of solidarity, independence, and regional integration in South America. This positive message is more likely to win votes in Brazil.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil gears up for a fight | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-06-15T13:00:57Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is keeping a watchful eye on the environmental disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. It is among the countries most likely to suffer an accident similar to Deepwater Horizon, having engaged in the exploration and exploitation of huge oil and gas fields in the Atlantic depths.Brazil's industry regulator, the National Oil Agency (ANP), and the main oil company, Petrobras, won't comment on the disaster. They are, however, reacting very quietly, and behind the scenes.Petrobras's management told parliament in May that its rescue teams were ready to intervene within 24 hours at the most on any of the rigs in mainland Brazil and within eight hours on the most remote offshore fields.Brazil has for several years led the way in deep-water exploration, but its expertise has come at a price: in 1984 an explosion started a fire on the Enchova Central rig and 42 lives were lost during its evacuation; four years later another explosion destroyed the same rig, but no one was killed.The discovery in 2006 of oil fields at a depth of more than 7,000 metres, below a thick (2,200 metre) crust of salt, heralded a new era in oil prospecting in Brazil, plagued by many uncertainties. The deepest level from which Petrobras had previously extracted oil was about 1,800 metres, a world record in itself.The experts say there are bound to be surprises. \"At that depth, with such high pressure, we cannot claim to be ready for any eventuality,\" says Segen Estefen, the head of a university laboratory that works with Petrobras.It is a huge technological challenge. Little or nothing is known about the 120m-year-old porous, carboniferous rocks that contain the oil. At 4\u00b0C, the sea water is cold enough for there to be a risk of paraffin solidifying in the risers. The pressure also means the pipes need to be reinforced. The sediment on top of the salt is unstable too, making it difficult to anchor the oil rigs.But the main hazard is corrosion caused by the high carbon-dioxide content of the fields. When it comes into contact with water it produces carbonic acid, making it necessary to invent new nickel-enriched alloys, which are tougher and lighter.The recently discovered Pre-sal fields contain 50bn to 100bn barrels of proven reserves, which should make Brazil the world's fourth-largest producer by 2030. With that exploration will come risks.This story was first published in Le Monde.", "tags": ["World news", "Brazil", "Oil", "Oil", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil quietly secures its offshore oil platforms"},{"date": "2010-06-02T12:51:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has made spectacular progress in reducing child labour over the past 15 years. According to a study by the Brazilian Institute of Applied Economic Research (IPEA), the number of working children aged between five and 14 fell by more than half between 1992 and 2008. It is now estimated at 1.7 million, or 5% in this age group, compared with 13% in 1992.According to Brazil's federal constitution \u2013 as well as Convention 138 of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) \u2013 no child aged under 16 may work, with the exception of children over 14 who are in a professional apprenticeship.Brazil is ahead of the ILO target to reduce child labour by between a third and a half within 25 years, and holds fourth place for best performance in Latin America, behind Colombia and Costa Rica.The reason lies in the efficient implementation of the programme to eradicate child labour launched in the 1990s, which cracked down on the most blatant abuse and provided financial incentives for families to send their children to school.In 2003, the programme was merged with the government's anti-poverty programme, the bolsa familia (family welfare,) that has been President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva's greatest social success. This \"conditional cash transfer programme\", as the economists call it, works on a simple principle: the state pays a monthly allowance to poor and very poor families on condition their children go to school and are up to date with their vaccinations.Children and teenagers from six to 15 must attend at least 85% of classes, and those aged between 16 and 17 must attend 75%.The amount \u2013 mostly collected and managed by mothers \u2013 depends on the family income and number of children. A family with a monthly per capita income below 70 reals ($38) is considered very poor and would receive a basic subsidy of 68 reals, with or without children. Both poor and very poor families are paid 22 reals ($12) per child under 15 at school, up to a maximum of three children, and 33 reals for those under 17 at school, up to a maximum of two.In all, 46 million people from 12.4 million families benefit from the bolsa familia, or one Brazilian in four.Ricardo Paes de Barros, author of the IPEA study, said the programme had played a \"crucial role\" in the fight against child labour. But the battle has yet to be won, notably in the poor inland regions of the north and the arid Nordeste region. More than four out of 10 children work in agriculture, and whether they work or not, 14\u00a0million children and teenagers still do not attend school in Brazil.Kinshu Kumar, 14, from Uttar Pradesh in India, may have been the youngest participant at the Global Child Labour Conference in The Hague last month, but he is a veteran in the struggle.Kinshu says that his first life ended six-and-a-half years ago when he stopped washing cars in the streets with his parents and began his fight to stop child labour. In India, 8.6 million children aged between five and 14 work; 45.2 million are not in school.Inspired by the Indian activist Kailash Satyarthi, who initiated the Global March Against Child Labour in 1998, he is not impressed by world leaders. His message is clear: \"You have the laws, you have the money. Now get down to work!\" Brigitte PeruccaThis article first appeared in Le Monde.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Education", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil halves the percentage of children working"},{"date": "2010-05-17T10:28:50Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "JOINT DECLARATION BY IRAN, TURKEY AND BRAZIL (17 May 2010)Having met in Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran, the undersigned have agreed on the following Declaration: 1. We reaffirm our commitment to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and in accordance with the related articles of the NPT, recall the right of all State Parties, including the Islamic Republic of Iran, to develop research, production and use of nuclear energy (as well as nuclear fuel cycle including enrichment activities) for peaceful purposes without discrimination. 2. We express our strong conviction that we have the opportunity now to begin a forward looking process that will create a positive, constructive, non-confrontational atmosphere leading to an era of interaction and cooperation. 3. We believe that the nuclear fuel exchange is instrumental in initiating cooperation in different areas, especially with regard to peaceful nuclear cooperation including nuclear power plant and research reactors construction. 4. Based on this point the nuclear fuel exchange is a starting point to begin cooperation and a positive constructive move forward among nations. Such a move should lead to positive interaction and cooperation in the field of peaceful nuclear activities replacing and avoiding all kinds of confrontation through refraining from measures, actions and rhetorical statements that would jeopardize Iran's rights and obligations under the NPT.5. Based on the above, in order to facilitate the nuclear cooperation mentioned above, the Islamic Republic of Iran agrees to deposit 1200 kg LEU in Turkey. While in Turkey this LEU will continue to be the property of Iran. Iran and the IAEA may station observers to monitor the safekeeping of the LEU in Turkey. 6. Iran will notify the IAEA in writing through official channels of its agreement with the above within seven days following the date of this declaration. Upon the positive response of the Vienna Group (US, Russia, France and the IAEA) further details of the exchange will be elaborated through a written agreement and proper arrangement between Iran and the Vienna Group that specifically committed themselves to deliver 120 kg of fuel needed for the Tehran Research Reactor (TRR). 7. When the Vienna Group declares its commitment to this provision, then both parties would commit themselves to the implemention of the agreement mentioned in item 6. Islamic Republic of Iran expressed its readiness to deposit its LEU (1200 kg) within one month. On the basis of the same agreement the Vienna Group should deliver 120 kg fuel required for TRR in no later than one year. 8. In case the provisions of this Declaration are not respected Turkey, upon the request of Iran, will return swiftly and unconditionally Iran's LEU to Iran. 9. We welcome the decision of the Islamic Republic of Iran to continue as in the past their talks with the 5+1 countries in Turkey on the common concerns based on collective commitments according to the common points of their proposals.10. Turkey and Brazil appreciated Iran's commitment to the NPT and its constructive role in pursuing the realization of nuclear rights of its member states. The Islamic Republic of Iran likewise appreciated the constructive efforts of the friendly countries Turkey and Brazil in creating the conducive environment for realization of Iran's nuclear rights.", "tags": ["Iran", "International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)", "Nuclear weapons", "Turkey", "Brazil", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Text of the Iran-Brazil-Turkey deal"},{"date": "2010-06-17T19:02:15Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Four years ago, when the government of Evo Morales re-nationalised its hydrocarbon industry, the Brazilian media was spoiling for a fight. After all, Petrobras, the Brazilian oil and gas company, had major interests there. But President Lula Da Silva was calm. \"I haven't had a fight with George W Bush,\" he told the press. \"Why should I fight with Evo?\"In four months Brazil will elect a new president, and the main opposition candidate, Jose Serra of the Brazilian Social Democratic Party (PSDB), has shown more interest in this kind of a fight. Last month he declared: \"Eighty to ninety percent of the cocaine [here] comes from Bolivia \u2026 Do you think that Bolivia could export 90% of the cocaine consumed in Brazil without the government being an accomplice? Impossible. The Bolivian government is complicit in this.\"He has also attacked Brazil's mediation efforts and relations with Iran, and indicated he would weaken Mercosur, the South American regional trading block. Serra is running against Workers' party candidate Dilma Rousseff, a former energy minister and chief of staff for President Lula, who strongly defends the government's foreign policy.The Brazilian right has also been hostile to Venezuela, with rightwing senators holding up its membership in Mercosur for more than three years and joining US-led propaganda campaigns against Venezuela's president, Hugo Ch\u00e1vez. Much as in the US, the major media has presented a caricature of Venezuela and the Ch\u00e1vez government, with some influence on public opinion. Serra has so far avoided attacking Venezuela, perhaps because he knows that Ch\u00e1vez could hit back hard and push these foreign policy issues to a higher profile than he may want for the campaign. In elections over the last few years in Peru, Mexico, El Salvador, Nicaragua, and other countries, the rightwing candidates \u2013 successfully in the first two contests \u2013 literally ran against Ch\u00e1vez as if he were their opponent. It is unlikely that the PSDB would want this to be the centre of their campaign; it would not sway many Brazilian voters.Indeed, the PSDB may be treading a fine line. There has been a huge historic transformation in Latin America, and especially South America, over the past decade. The region has become vastly more independent of the US, and has clearly benefitted from this enormous, epoch-making change. Although there is a powerful part of the Brazilian political and media elite that is uncomfortable with these changes, and would prefer to roll things back to a cosier relationship with Washington, this is risky. The PSDB would not want to be perceived as being on the wrong side of this historic transition.Even with respect to Bolivia, most of the voters that the PSDB is trying to reach would probably understand that it makes no sense to attack Bolivia for the illegal drug trade in Brazil. The government of Evo Morales has fought against drug trafficking (pdf) with more effort and less corruption than its predecessors; there is a clear distinction for the Morales government between coca, which is a legal, mild stimulant that has been part of Bolivia's culture for centuries, and cocaine. Try telling Americans to give up their coffee. If Brazil wants to reduce drug trafficking it will find in Bolivia a willing partner. If the decades-long failure of Washington's so-called \"war on drugs\" has proven anything, it's that drug trafficking is overwhelmingly a demand-side problem (pdf), and eradication of one source of raw materials leads to geographical shifts in production. It is not clear that Serra's attacks on Lula's diplomatic efforts in the Middle East will be any more successful. The nuclear fuel-swap agreement that Brazil and Turkey negotiated with Iran last month was a historic breakthrough in international diplomacy. It was also what Obama had asked Lula to try and arrange just three weeks earlier, although the Brazilian government had to leak a letter from Obama to prove it, after US secretary of state Hillary Clinton reacted with hostility to the agreement. Nonetheless, the end result is that Brazil helped preserve a space for a negotiated settlement at a time when the Obama administration is caving to pressure from rightwing elements in Congress who want him to abandon this strategy, thus escalating the chances of eventual military confrontation. And although some trigger-happy columnists whined, the Obama administration ultimately had to accept Brazil's efforts without even a hint that US-Brazilian relations would be negatively affected.Jos\u00e9 Serra is not a rightwing politician by nature; as health minister he stood up to powerful foreign pharmaceutical companies backed by the US in order to secure lower prices for generic essential medicines. So why would he, and his party, promote such a rightwing foreign policy?The answer is most likely that the economy has done much better during Lula's eight years than during the previous eight years of the PSDB, including its growth. With major real increases in the minimum wage, an expansion of the bolsa familia programme for the poor and a mortgage credit for home buyers of modest means, it won't be that easy to campaign against Dilma and the Workers' party on economic issues. The Republicans in the United States have long targeted swing voters on non-economic issues, including the pretence that their party was somehow \"tougher\" on foreign policy. It was their best possible strategy for most of the last four decades, and of course when the recession finally focused these voters' attention on economic issues in 2008, they lost everything. But Brazil is not the United States. Lula and his foreign minister Celso Amorim have made a strong case for trying to prevent another horrible, unnecessary war in the Middle East; and for the benefits of solidarity, independence, and regional integration in South America. This positive message is more likely to win votes in Brazil.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil gears up for a fight | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-06-15T13:00:57Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is keeping a watchful eye on the environmental disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. It is among the countries most likely to suffer an accident similar to Deepwater Horizon, having engaged in the exploration and exploitation of huge oil and gas fields in the Atlantic depths.Brazil's industry regulator, the National Oil Agency (ANP), and the main oil company, Petrobras, won't comment on the disaster. They are, however, reacting very quietly, and behind the scenes.Petrobras's management told parliament in May that its rescue teams were ready to intervene within 24 hours at the most on any of the rigs in mainland Brazil and within eight hours on the most remote offshore fields.Brazil has for several years led the way in deep-water exploration, but its expertise has come at a price: in 1984 an explosion started a fire on the Enchova Central rig and 42 lives were lost during its evacuation; four years later another explosion destroyed the same rig, but no one was killed.The discovery in 2006 of oil fields at a depth of more than 7,000 metres, below a thick (2,200 metre) crust of salt, heralded a new era in oil prospecting in Brazil, plagued by many uncertainties. The deepest level from which Petrobras had previously extracted oil was about 1,800 metres, a world record in itself.The experts say there are bound to be surprises. \"At that depth, with such high pressure, we cannot claim to be ready for any eventuality,\" says Segen Estefen, the head of a university laboratory that works with Petrobras.It is a huge technological challenge. Little or nothing is known about the 120m-year-old porous, carboniferous rocks that contain the oil. At 4\u00b0C, the sea water is cold enough for there to be a risk of paraffin solidifying in the risers. The pressure also means the pipes need to be reinforced. The sediment on top of the salt is unstable too, making it difficult to anchor the oil rigs.But the main hazard is corrosion caused by the high carbon-dioxide content of the fields. When it comes into contact with water it produces carbonic acid, making it necessary to invent new nickel-enriched alloys, which are tougher and lighter.The recently discovered Pre-sal fields contain 50bn to 100bn barrels of proven reserves, which should make Brazil the world's fourth-largest producer by 2030. With that exploration will come risks.This story was first published in Le Monde.", "tags": ["World news", "Brazil", "Oil", "Oil", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil quietly secures its offshore oil platforms"},{"date": "2010-06-02T12:51:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has made spectacular progress in reducing child labour over the past 15 years. According to a study by the Brazilian Institute of Applied Economic Research (IPEA), the number of working children aged between five and 14 fell by more than half between 1992 and 2008. It is now estimated at 1.7 million, or 5% in this age group, compared with 13% in 1992.According to Brazil's federal constitution \u2013 as well as Convention 138 of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) \u2013 no child aged under 16 may work, with the exception of children over 14 who are in a professional apprenticeship.Brazil is ahead of the ILO target to reduce child labour by between a third and a half within 25 years, and holds fourth place for best performance in Latin America, behind Colombia and Costa Rica.The reason lies in the efficient implementation of the programme to eradicate child labour launched in the 1990s, which cracked down on the most blatant abuse and provided financial incentives for families to send their children to school.In 2003, the programme was merged with the government's anti-poverty programme, the bolsa familia (family welfare,) that has been President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva's greatest social success. This \"conditional cash transfer programme\", as the economists call it, works on a simple principle: the state pays a monthly allowance to poor and very poor families on condition their children go to school and are up to date with their vaccinations.Children and teenagers from six to 15 must attend at least 85% of classes, and those aged between 16 and 17 must attend 75%.The amount \u2013 mostly collected and managed by mothers \u2013 depends on the family income and number of children. A family with a monthly per capita income below 70 reals ($38) is considered very poor and would receive a basic subsidy of 68 reals, with or without children. Both poor and very poor families are paid 22 reals ($12) per child under 15 at school, up to a maximum of three children, and 33 reals for those under 17 at school, up to a maximum of two.In all, 46 million people from 12.4 million families benefit from the bolsa familia, or one Brazilian in four.Ricardo Paes de Barros, author of the IPEA study, said the programme had played a \"crucial role\" in the fight against child labour. But the battle has yet to be won, notably in the poor inland regions of the north and the arid Nordeste region. More than four out of 10 children work in agriculture, and whether they work or not, 14\u00a0million children and teenagers still do not attend school in Brazil.Kinshu Kumar, 14, from Uttar Pradesh in India, may have been the youngest participant at the Global Child Labour Conference in The Hague last month, but he is a veteran in the struggle.Kinshu says that his first life ended six-and-a-half years ago when he stopped washing cars in the streets with his parents and began his fight to stop child labour. In India, 8.6 million children aged between five and 14 work; 45.2 million are not in school.Inspired by the Indian activist Kailash Satyarthi, who initiated the Global March Against Child Labour in 1998, he is not impressed by world leaders. His message is clear: \"You have the laws, you have the money. Now get down to work!\" Brigitte PeruccaThis article first appeared in Le Monde.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Education", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil halves the percentage of children working"},{"date": "2010-05-17T10:28:50Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "JOINT DECLARATION BY IRAN, TURKEY AND BRAZIL (17 May 2010)Having met in Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran, the undersigned have agreed on the following Declaration: 1. We reaffirm our commitment to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and in accordance with the related articles of the NPT, recall the right of all State Parties, including the Islamic Republic of Iran, to develop research, production and use of nuclear energy (as well as nuclear fuel cycle including enrichment activities) for peaceful purposes without discrimination. 2. We express our strong conviction that we have the opportunity now to begin a forward looking process that will create a positive, constructive, non-confrontational atmosphere leading to an era of interaction and cooperation. 3. We believe that the nuclear fuel exchange is instrumental in initiating cooperation in different areas, especially with regard to peaceful nuclear cooperation including nuclear power plant and research reactors construction. 4. Based on this point the nuclear fuel exchange is a starting point to begin cooperation and a positive constructive move forward among nations. Such a move should lead to positive interaction and cooperation in the field of peaceful nuclear activities replacing and avoiding all kinds of confrontation through refraining from measures, actions and rhetorical statements that would jeopardize Iran's rights and obligations under the NPT.5. Based on the above, in order to facilitate the nuclear cooperation mentioned above, the Islamic Republic of Iran agrees to deposit 1200 kg LEU in Turkey. While in Turkey this LEU will continue to be the property of Iran. Iran and the IAEA may station observers to monitor the safekeeping of the LEU in Turkey. 6. Iran will notify the IAEA in writing through official channels of its agreement with the above within seven days following the date of this declaration. Upon the positive response of the Vienna Group (US, Russia, France and the IAEA) further details of the exchange will be elaborated through a written agreement and proper arrangement between Iran and the Vienna Group that specifically committed themselves to deliver 120 kg of fuel needed for the Tehran Research Reactor (TRR). 7. When the Vienna Group declares its commitment to this provision, then both parties would commit themselves to the implemention of the agreement mentioned in item 6. Islamic Republic of Iran expressed its readiness to deposit its LEU (1200 kg) within one month. On the basis of the same agreement the Vienna Group should deliver 120 kg fuel required for TRR in no later than one year. 8. In case the provisions of this Declaration are not respected Turkey, upon the request of Iran, will return swiftly and unconditionally Iran's LEU to Iran. 9. We welcome the decision of the Islamic Republic of Iran to continue as in the past their talks with the 5+1 countries in Turkey on the common concerns based on collective commitments according to the common points of their proposals.10. Turkey and Brazil appreciated Iran's commitment to the NPT and its constructive role in pursuing the realization of nuclear rights of its member states. The Islamic Republic of Iran likewise appreciated the constructive efforts of the friendly countries Turkey and Brazil in creating the conducive environment for realization of Iran's nuclear rights.", "tags": ["Iran", "International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)", "Nuclear weapons", "Turkey", "Brazil", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Text of the Iran-Brazil-Turkey deal"},{"date": "2010-04-08T08:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "What keeps you motivated? I am a retired executive now living in Brazil and originally from England by way of Canada. For me, not doing anything at all while retired would be intolerable, so I took up teaching 10 years ago and find it fully time consuming and very rewarding. Seeing ex- students get better jobs because of their English is a great reward. I feel I am contributing to the community of my adopted country.Best teaching moment? When a student recommends me to colleagues or friends. I do sometimes wonder if I am a good teacher and this validates what I do.And worst? Having to tell a class that my grammar knowledge is so bad that I don't know the answer to a question. I was drawn to teaching through a long love affair with words but I haven't had any formal training. I learnt a little grammar at school and the rest by osmosis. In the time that I have been teaching I have learned more of the technical side of my native language, but I still give thanks daily for Raymond Murphy and his English Grammar in Use books.What have you learned? Because I have my pension I can charge students well below the going rate. This attracts learners who need English to get a better job and improve their life prospects. They are very committed to learning. English is just one thing they are studying \u2013 they are also at university and doing part-time jobs. In wealthier countries young people can take education for granted but here they work hard for it.Biggest challenge? Teaching vocabulary. Unlike me, students don't seem to want to read dictionaries. I send out a weekly email to all my past and present students containing 20 new target words and a link to an online learner's dictionary. This gets a good response and it takes no time at all.What's next? At 71 I think that my life is filled and fulfilled. I just have to make sure that I give myself enough time away from teaching so that I can go to the beach and relax.Top tip? Never underestimate your students and never talk down to them.\u2022 Anthony Burson started teaching with a language school in Brazil. After nine years he left to teach privately", "tags": ["Tefl"], "title": "Innovative teaching methods for learners in Brazil"},{"date": "2010-06-17T19:02:15Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Four years ago, when the government of Evo Morales re-nationalised its hydrocarbon industry, the Brazilian media was spoiling for a fight. After all, Petrobras, the Brazilian oil and gas company, had major interests there. But President Lula Da Silva was calm. \"I haven't had a fight with George W Bush,\" he told the press. \"Why should I fight with Evo?\"In four months Brazil will elect a new president, and the main opposition candidate, Jose Serra of the Brazilian Social Democratic Party (PSDB), has shown more interest in this kind of a fight. Last month he declared: \"Eighty to ninety percent of the cocaine [here] comes from Bolivia \u2026 Do you think that Bolivia could export 90% of the cocaine consumed in Brazil without the government being an accomplice? Impossible. The Bolivian government is complicit in this.\"He has also attacked Brazil's mediation efforts and relations with Iran, and indicated he would weaken Mercosur, the South American regional trading block. Serra is running against Workers' party candidate Dilma Rousseff, a former energy minister and chief of staff for President Lula, who strongly defends the government's foreign policy.The Brazilian right has also been hostile to Venezuela, with rightwing senators holding up its membership in Mercosur for more than three years and joining US-led propaganda campaigns against Venezuela's president, Hugo Ch\u00e1vez. Much as in the US, the major media has presented a caricature of Venezuela and the Ch\u00e1vez government, with some influence on public opinion. Serra has so far avoided attacking Venezuela, perhaps because he knows that Ch\u00e1vez could hit back hard and push these foreign policy issues to a higher profile than he may want for the campaign. In elections over the last few years in Peru, Mexico, El Salvador, Nicaragua, and other countries, the rightwing candidates \u2013 successfully in the first two contests \u2013 literally ran against Ch\u00e1vez as if he were their opponent. It is unlikely that the PSDB would want this to be the centre of their campaign; it would not sway many Brazilian voters.Indeed, the PSDB may be treading a fine line. There has been a huge historic transformation in Latin America, and especially South America, over the past decade. The region has become vastly more independent of the US, and has clearly benefitted from this enormous, epoch-making change. Although there is a powerful part of the Brazilian political and media elite that is uncomfortable with these changes, and would prefer to roll things back to a cosier relationship with Washington, this is risky. The PSDB would not want to be perceived as being on the wrong side of this historic transition.Even with respect to Bolivia, most of the voters that the PSDB is trying to reach would probably understand that it makes no sense to attack Bolivia for the illegal drug trade in Brazil. The government of Evo Morales has fought against drug trafficking (pdf) with more effort and less corruption than its predecessors; there is a clear distinction for the Morales government between coca, which is a legal, mild stimulant that has been part of Bolivia's culture for centuries, and cocaine. Try telling Americans to give up their coffee. If Brazil wants to reduce drug trafficking it will find in Bolivia a willing partner. If the decades-long failure of Washington's so-called \"war on drugs\" has proven anything, it's that drug trafficking is overwhelmingly a demand-side problem (pdf), and eradication of one source of raw materials leads to geographical shifts in production. It is not clear that Serra's attacks on Lula's diplomatic efforts in the Middle East will be any more successful. The nuclear fuel-swap agreement that Brazil and Turkey negotiated with Iran last month was a historic breakthrough in international diplomacy. It was also what Obama had asked Lula to try and arrange just three weeks earlier, although the Brazilian government had to leak a letter from Obama to prove it, after US secretary of state Hillary Clinton reacted with hostility to the agreement. Nonetheless, the end result is that Brazil helped preserve a space for a negotiated settlement at a time when the Obama administration is caving to pressure from rightwing elements in Congress who want him to abandon this strategy, thus escalating the chances of eventual military confrontation. And although some trigger-happy columnists whined, the Obama administration ultimately had to accept Brazil's efforts without even a hint that US-Brazilian relations would be negatively affected.Jos\u00e9 Serra is not a rightwing politician by nature; as health minister he stood up to powerful foreign pharmaceutical companies backed by the US in order to secure lower prices for generic essential medicines. So why would he, and his party, promote such a rightwing foreign policy?The answer is most likely that the economy has done much better during Lula's eight years than during the previous eight years of the PSDB, including its growth. With major real increases in the minimum wage, an expansion of the bolsa familia programme for the poor and a mortgage credit for home buyers of modest means, it won't be that easy to campaign against Dilma and the Workers' party on economic issues. The Republicans in the United States have long targeted swing voters on non-economic issues, including the pretence that their party was somehow \"tougher\" on foreign policy. It was their best possible strategy for most of the last four decades, and of course when the recession finally focused these voters' attention on economic issues in 2008, they lost everything. But Brazil is not the United States. Lula and his foreign minister Celso Amorim have made a strong case for trying to prevent another horrible, unnecessary war in the Middle East; and for the benefits of solidarity, independence, and regional integration in South America. This positive message is more likely to win votes in Brazil.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil gears up for a fight | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-06-15T13:00:57Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is keeping a watchful eye on the environmental disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. It is among the countries most likely to suffer an accident similar to Deepwater Horizon, having engaged in the exploration and exploitation of huge oil and gas fields in the Atlantic depths.Brazil's industry regulator, the National Oil Agency (ANP), and the main oil company, Petrobras, won't comment on the disaster. They are, however, reacting very quietly, and behind the scenes.Petrobras's management told parliament in May that its rescue teams were ready to intervene within 24 hours at the most on any of the rigs in mainland Brazil and within eight hours on the most remote offshore fields.Brazil has for several years led the way in deep-water exploration, but its expertise has come at a price: in 1984 an explosion started a fire on the Enchova Central rig and 42 lives were lost during its evacuation; four years later another explosion destroyed the same rig, but no one was killed.The discovery in 2006 of oil fields at a depth of more than 7,000 metres, below a thick (2,200 metre) crust of salt, heralded a new era in oil prospecting in Brazil, plagued by many uncertainties. The deepest level from which Petrobras had previously extracted oil was about 1,800 metres, a world record in itself.The experts say there are bound to be surprises. \"At that depth, with such high pressure, we cannot claim to be ready for any eventuality,\" says Segen Estefen, the head of a university laboratory that works with Petrobras.It is a huge technological challenge. Little or nothing is known about the 120m-year-old porous, carboniferous rocks that contain the oil. At 4\u00b0C, the sea water is cold enough for there to be a risk of paraffin solidifying in the risers. The pressure also means the pipes need to be reinforced. The sediment on top of the salt is unstable too, making it difficult to anchor the oil rigs.But the main hazard is corrosion caused by the high carbon-dioxide content of the fields. When it comes into contact with water it produces carbonic acid, making it necessary to invent new nickel-enriched alloys, which are tougher and lighter.The recently discovered Pre-sal fields contain 50bn to 100bn barrels of proven reserves, which should make Brazil the world's fourth-largest producer by 2030. With that exploration will come risks.This story was first published in Le Monde.", "tags": ["World news", "Brazil", "Oil", "Oil", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil quietly secures its offshore oil platforms"},{"date": "2010-06-02T12:51:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has made spectacular progress in reducing child labour over the past 15 years. According to a study by the Brazilian Institute of Applied Economic Research (IPEA), the number of working children aged between five and 14 fell by more than half between 1992 and 2008. It is now estimated at 1.7 million, or 5% in this age group, compared with 13% in 1992.According to Brazil's federal constitution \u2013 as well as Convention 138 of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) \u2013 no child aged under 16 may work, with the exception of children over 14 who are in a professional apprenticeship.Brazil is ahead of the ILO target to reduce child labour by between a third and a half within 25 years, and holds fourth place for best performance in Latin America, behind Colombia and Costa Rica.The reason lies in the efficient implementation of the programme to eradicate child labour launched in the 1990s, which cracked down on the most blatant abuse and provided financial incentives for families to send their children to school.In 2003, the programme was merged with the government's anti-poverty programme, the bolsa familia (family welfare,) that has been President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva's greatest social success. This \"conditional cash transfer programme\", as the economists call it, works on a simple principle: the state pays a monthly allowance to poor and very poor families on condition their children go to school and are up to date with their vaccinations.Children and teenagers from six to 15 must attend at least 85% of classes, and those aged between 16 and 17 must attend 75%.The amount \u2013 mostly collected and managed by mothers \u2013 depends on the family income and number of children. A family with a monthly per capita income below 70 reals ($38) is considered very poor and would receive a basic subsidy of 68 reals, with or without children. Both poor and very poor families are paid 22 reals ($12) per child under 15 at school, up to a maximum of three children, and 33 reals for those under 17 at school, up to a maximum of two.In all, 46 million people from 12.4 million families benefit from the bolsa familia, or one Brazilian in four.Ricardo Paes de Barros, author of the IPEA study, said the programme had played a \"crucial role\" in the fight against child labour. But the battle has yet to be won, notably in the poor inland regions of the north and the arid Nordeste region. More than four out of 10 children work in agriculture, and whether they work or not, 14\u00a0million children and teenagers still do not attend school in Brazil.Kinshu Kumar, 14, from Uttar Pradesh in India, may have been the youngest participant at the Global Child Labour Conference in The Hague last month, but he is a veteran in the struggle.Kinshu says that his first life ended six-and-a-half years ago when he stopped washing cars in the streets with his parents and began his fight to stop child labour. In India, 8.6 million children aged between five and 14 work; 45.2 million are not in school.Inspired by the Indian activist Kailash Satyarthi, who initiated the Global March Against Child Labour in 1998, he is not impressed by world leaders. His message is clear: \"You have the laws, you have the money. Now get down to work!\" Brigitte PeruccaThis article first appeared in Le Monde.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Education", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil halves the percentage of children working"},{"date": "2010-05-17T10:28:50Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "JOINT DECLARATION BY IRAN, TURKEY AND BRAZIL (17 May 2010)Having met in Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran, the undersigned have agreed on the following Declaration: 1. We reaffirm our commitment to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and in accordance with the related articles of the NPT, recall the right of all State Parties, including the Islamic Republic of Iran, to develop research, production and use of nuclear energy (as well as nuclear fuel cycle including enrichment activities) for peaceful purposes without discrimination. 2. We express our strong conviction that we have the opportunity now to begin a forward looking process that will create a positive, constructive, non-confrontational atmosphere leading to an era of interaction and cooperation. 3. We believe that the nuclear fuel exchange is instrumental in initiating cooperation in different areas, especially with regard to peaceful nuclear cooperation including nuclear power plant and research reactors construction. 4. Based on this point the nuclear fuel exchange is a starting point to begin cooperation and a positive constructive move forward among nations. Such a move should lead to positive interaction and cooperation in the field of peaceful nuclear activities replacing and avoiding all kinds of confrontation through refraining from measures, actions and rhetorical statements that would jeopardize Iran's rights and obligations under the NPT.5. Based on the above, in order to facilitate the nuclear cooperation mentioned above, the Islamic Republic of Iran agrees to deposit 1200 kg LEU in Turkey. While in Turkey this LEU will continue to be the property of Iran. Iran and the IAEA may station observers to monitor the safekeeping of the LEU in Turkey. 6. Iran will notify the IAEA in writing through official channels of its agreement with the above within seven days following the date of this declaration. Upon the positive response of the Vienna Group (US, Russia, France and the IAEA) further details of the exchange will be elaborated through a written agreement and proper arrangement between Iran and the Vienna Group that specifically committed themselves to deliver 120 kg of fuel needed for the Tehran Research Reactor (TRR). 7. When the Vienna Group declares its commitment to this provision, then both parties would commit themselves to the implemention of the agreement mentioned in item 6. Islamic Republic of Iran expressed its readiness to deposit its LEU (1200 kg) within one month. On the basis of the same agreement the Vienna Group should deliver 120 kg fuel required for TRR in no later than one year. 8. In case the provisions of this Declaration are not respected Turkey, upon the request of Iran, will return swiftly and unconditionally Iran's LEU to Iran. 9. We welcome the decision of the Islamic Republic of Iran to continue as in the past their talks with the 5+1 countries in Turkey on the common concerns based on collective commitments according to the common points of their proposals.10. Turkey and Brazil appreciated Iran's commitment to the NPT and its constructive role in pursuing the realization of nuclear rights of its member states. The Islamic Republic of Iran likewise appreciated the constructive efforts of the friendly countries Turkey and Brazil in creating the conducive environment for realization of Iran's nuclear rights.", "tags": ["Iran", "International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)", "Nuclear weapons", "Turkey", "Brazil", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Text of the Iran-Brazil-Turkey deal"},{"date": "2010-04-08T08:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "What keeps you motivated? I am a retired executive now living in Brazil and originally from England by way of Canada. For me, not doing anything at all while retired would be intolerable, so I took up teaching 10 years ago and find it fully time consuming and very rewarding. Seeing ex- students get better jobs because of their English is a great reward. I feel I am contributing to the community of my adopted country.Best teaching moment? When a student recommends me to colleagues or friends. I do sometimes wonder if I am a good teacher and this validates what I do.And worst? Having to tell a class that my grammar knowledge is so bad that I don't know the answer to a question. I was drawn to teaching through a long love affair with words but I haven't had any formal training. I learnt a little grammar at school and the rest by osmosis. In the time that I have been teaching I have learned more of the technical side of my native language, but I still give thanks daily for Raymond Murphy and his English Grammar in Use books.What have you learned? Because I have my pension I can charge students well below the going rate. This attracts learners who need English to get a better job and improve their life prospects. They are very committed to learning. English is just one thing they are studying \u2013 they are also at university and doing part-time jobs. In wealthier countries young people can take education for granted but here they work hard for it.Biggest challenge? Teaching vocabulary. Unlike me, students don't seem to want to read dictionaries. I send out a weekly email to all my past and present students containing 20 new target words and a link to an online learner's dictionary. This gets a good response and it takes no time at all.What's next? At 71 I think that my life is filled and fulfilled. I just have to make sure that I give myself enough time away from teaching so that I can go to the beach and relax.Top tip? Never underestimate your students and never talk down to them.\u2022 Anthony Burson started teaching with a language school in Brazil. After nine years he left to teach privately", "tags": ["Tefl"], "title": "Innovative teaching methods for learners in Brazil"},{"date": "2010-06-30T15:34:37Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The British government is subsidising one of the world's largest and riskiest oil-drilling projects in the Atlantic Ocean and would be liable for tens of millions of pounds if a major accident took place.Documents seen by the Guardian show that UK trade ministers underwrote loans taken out by the Brazilian state-run energy company Petrobras in 2005 in order that Rolls Royce and other companies could contribute to the building of the giant P-52 platform.The platform is now operating 125km off the coast of Brazil in 1,798 metres (5,900 feet) of water - deeper than BP's Deepwater rig that exploded in April and led to the disastrous oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.But the 14-page environment report prepared by the UK's Export Credits Guarantee Department (ECGD) and obtained under freedom of information rules by watchdog group Corner House, makes no mention of blowouts or the equipment needed to prevent them. Ministers have edited out all ECDG's comments assessing the risks involved in deep-sea drilling in the Atlantic.The oil and gas reservoirs of the Campos basin are considered some of the most hazardous in the world to access, pushing offshore technology to the limit. The P-52 rig replaced one that exploded and sank due to human error in 2001, killing 11 people.Environmental groups today accused the government of forcing British taxpayers to underwrite a project that could lead to a disaster similar to the spill in the Gulf of Mexico.John Sauven, the executive director of Greenpeace, said: \"In this newly declared age of austerity in which we're told we can barely afford schools and hospitals the government is underwriting investments in dangerous deepwater drilling, despite events in the Gulf of Mexico and the obvious climate change implications of supporting frontier oil exploration.\"Margaret Ounsley, head of public affairs at WWF-UK said: \"British taxpayers will be surprised to hear they are supporting this project. The ECGD is the shadowy arm of the British government and does nothing to make its procedures more open and transparent. We simply do not know what systems are in place to prevent an environmental disaster at this platform.\"A ECGD spokesman confirmed the government was still responsible for underwriting the loans, but said that the risk of a blowout was slim because the oil was not under high pressure like the Gulf of Mexico, and the most dangerous time - when the well was being drilled - had passed.\"ECDG supported P-52 along with the US, Norwegian and Italian export credits agencies, who all undertook environmental assessments prior to supporting the project. ECDG assessed the P-52 project against international finance corporation guidelines for offshore oil and gas development and found it to meet the environmental criteria in these guidelines. Petrobras' oil-spill response plan was scrutinised against four international standards for such plans and was considered to be adequate for the project\", he said.Last week Petrobras said it expected offshore drilling rules in Brazilian waters to be tightened in response to the Gulf spill and following increased interest by foreign companies in deepwater drilling off its coast. In March, just weeks before the Gulf blowout, BP announced a move into deep-sea drilling of the Brazilian coast with a $7bn deal with US company Devon Energy Corp. The deal included exploration blocks where oil is believed to lie in waters as deep as 2,780m (9,120ft).Yesterday the Brazilian government said it was still assessing whether the sale to BP should go ahead. The Ag\u00eancia Nacional do Petr\u00f3leo, which grants licenses and supervises safety in the Brazilian oil industry, said that no decision has yet been taken on whether to approve what in normal cicrcumstances would be a formality.", "tags": ["Oil", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "Environment", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "Brazil", "World news", "Business", "Americas"], "title": "UK backing loans for 'risky' offshore oil drilling in Brazil"},{"date": "2010-08-25T16:07:08Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It was always known that in the election on 3 October, Dilma Rousseff would have a big advantage in being the handpicked successor to Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, one of the most popular presidents in Brazilian history. During the two terms of the former leftwing labour organiser, Latin America's biggest country grew at a steady clip and millions of Brazilians rose out of poverty; Lula's approval ratings recently have rarely dropped below the 70s.\u00a0But as the campaign got in full swing last week, and the candidates unveiled their television programming, we were given even more evidence that Dilma would take home the prize. Dilma's main challenger is Jos\u00e9 Serra, the centre-right former governor of S\u00e3o Paulo state. You don't have to speak Portuguese to see that her first TV slots, broadcast at lunchtime and in the evening, quite simply blow his clips out of the water.\u00a0Her evening performance is especially impressive, as she and Lula speak to each other from various locations across the vast country. In comparison, Serra's clips look limp. The production is noticeably worse, and he struggles to establish an independent political project. It's politically risky to attack Lula's domestic record, and for the most part, Serra has avoided doing so.\u00a0Commentators here await impatiently the official TV campaigns, since, by law, television advertising is prohibited until the candidates are allocated pre-arranged slots. In a country still with high levels of illiteracy, the TV spots are seen as extremely important. \u00a0Just a few months ago, though, Dilma was not so well-known and Serra led in the polls. As she gained recognition, she closed in on and surpassed him; she now looks likely to win by a healthy margin, perhaps by enough to avoid a second round. Dilma's TV campaign is dazzling viewers, but more importantly, establishing her clearly as Lula's chosen woman.\u00a0Unlike Lula, who, before entering politics, was a poor metalworker, Dilma was born into the middle class. At university, she became involved in leftwing organisations opposed to the military dictatorship in power at the time, activity which led to her being imprisoned for three years.\u00a0After the country's return to democracy, she made her name in politics and eventually became Lula's minister of energy, then chief of staff.\u00a0She never held elected office.\u00a0As with Lula, the practice of power tamed her earlier radical ideas, and she presents herself as a candidate of the centre-left. Serra portrays himself as a centrist. In reality, they are both close to the centre, made a comfortable political space by a Lula presidency that has pleased most and made few enemies.\u00a0Before he took over in 2003, the prospect of a Lula presidency scared international investors and business interests in Brazil. As it turned out, he quickly moderated his previous positions and they had little to worry about. Demand from China and general economic stability propelled a boom that brought prosperity to most Brazilians. Lula instituted a very popular cash-transfer programme for the country's poor, while avoiding any major moves that would upset Brazil's powerful economic elites. As a consequence, despite economic advances, Brazil remains an extremely unequal society, with shocking levels of violence and social exclusion in some areas. In others, it is as developed as affluent parts of Europe.\u00a0Internationally, Lula carved out an independent foreign policy, sometimes called \"counterhegemonic\", which has been more controversial in board rooms \u2013 and in Washington. He formed close ideological alliances with Hugo Ch\u00e1vez and Fidel Castro, and speaks highly of both. Lula came out strongly against a military coup in Honduras, giving sanctuary to the deposed president in the Brazilian embassy.\u00a0Even more to the chagrin of the US, Brazil has refused to cooperate on Iran, preferring dialogue to sanctions on the nuclear issue and choosing not to isolate Iran (out of the many grave human rights offenders they \u2013 and all other western countries \u2013 do business with). Whether as a result or in spite of these actions, Brazil has played an increasingly influential role in international relations. As a rising economic power, its approval is now sought for more and more multilateral decisions.\u00a0The Iran connection recently became an issue in the presidential campaign, as Serra criticised Lula for being indifferent to human rights. Meanwhile, Lula tried to use his influence in Iran to secure the release of a woman condemned to death by stoning. The appeal, perhaps predictably, failed. But this affair hasn't seemed to have any effect on Dilma's chances.\u00a0What a Dilma presidency might actually look like is still a bit of a secret. She is not likely to stray too far from her predecessor. That is, we assume. Riding Lula's wave of popularity, Dilma seems to have decided she doesn't need to say much. Her campaign message is that things are going quite well at the moment, pointing to the fact that Lula was the first president to make any significant moves towards the inclusion of the poor.\u00a0Although she has zero electoral experience, this simple message seems to be working for her with a broadly contented electorate. She doesn't need campaigning knowhow \u2013 she has Lula. And have you seen her videos?", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Where Lula led Brazil ... | Vincent Bevins"},{"date": "2010-08-25T16:07:08Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It was always known that in the election on 3 October, Dilma Rousseff would have a big advantage in being the handpicked successor to Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, one of the most popular presidents in Brazilian history. During the two terms of the former leftwing labour organiser, Latin America's biggest country grew at a steady clip and millions of Brazilians rose out of poverty; Lula's approval ratings recently have rarely dropped below the 70s.\u00a0But as the campaign got in full swing last week, and the candidates unveiled their television programming, we were given even more evidence that Dilma would take home the prize. Dilma's main challenger is Jos\u00e9 Serra, the centre-right former governor of S\u00e3o Paulo state. You don't have to speak Portuguese to see that her first TV slots, broadcast at lunchtime and in the evening, quite simply blow his clips out of the water.\u00a0Her evening performance is especially impressive, as she and Lula speak to each other from various locations across the vast country. In comparison, Serra's clips look limp. The production is noticeably worse, and he struggles to establish an independent political project. It's politically risky to attack Lula's domestic record, and for the most part, Serra has avoided doing so.\u00a0Commentators here await impatiently the official TV campaigns, since, by law, television advertising is prohibited until the candidates are allocated pre-arranged slots. In a country still with high levels of illiteracy, the TV spots are seen as extremely important. \u00a0Just a few months ago, though, Dilma was not so well-known and Serra led in the polls. As she gained recognition, she closed in on and surpassed him; she now looks likely to win by a healthy margin, perhaps by enough to avoid a second round. Dilma's TV campaign is dazzling viewers, but more importantly, establishing her clearly as Lula's chosen woman.\u00a0Unlike Lula, who, before entering politics, was a poor metalworker, Dilma was born into the middle class. At university, she became involved in leftwing organisations opposed to the military dictatorship in power at the time, activity which led to her being imprisoned for three years.\u00a0After the country's return to democracy, she made her name in politics and eventually became Lula's minister of energy, then chief of staff.\u00a0She never held elected office.\u00a0As with Lula, the practice of power tamed her earlier radical ideas, and she presents herself as a candidate of the centre-left. Serra portrays himself as a centrist. In reality, they are both close to the centre, made a comfortable political space by a Lula presidency that has pleased most and made few enemies.\u00a0Before he took over in 2003, the prospect of a Lula presidency scared international investors and business interests in Brazil. As it turned out, he quickly moderated his previous positions and they had little to worry about. Demand from China and general economic stability propelled a boom that brought prosperity to most Brazilians. Lula instituted a very popular cash-transfer programme for the country's poor, while avoiding any major moves that would upset Brazil's powerful economic elites. As a consequence, despite economic advances, Brazil remains an extremely unequal society, with shocking levels of violence and social exclusion in some areas. In others, it is as developed as affluent parts of Europe.\u00a0Internationally, Lula carved out an independent foreign policy, sometimes called \"counterhegemonic\", which has been more controversial in board rooms \u2013 and in Washington. He formed close ideological alliances with Hugo Ch\u00e1vez and Fidel Castro, and speaks highly of both. Lula came out strongly against a military coup in Honduras, giving sanctuary to the deposed president in the Brazilian embassy.\u00a0Even more to the chagrin of the US, Brazil has refused to cooperate on Iran, preferring dialogue to sanctions on the nuclear issue and choosing not to isolate Iran (out of the many grave human rights offenders they \u2013 and all other western countries \u2013 do business with). Whether as a result or in spite of these actions, Brazil has played an increasingly influential role in international relations. As a rising economic power, its approval is now sought for more and more multilateral decisions.\u00a0The Iran connection recently became an issue in the presidential campaign, as Serra criticised Lula for being indifferent to human rights. Meanwhile, Lula tried to use his influence in Iran to secure the release of a woman condemned to death by stoning. The appeal, perhaps predictably, failed. But this affair hasn't seemed to have any effect on Dilma's chances.\u00a0What a Dilma presidency might actually look like is still a bit of a secret. She is not likely to stray too far from her predecessor. That is, we assume. Riding Lula's wave of popularity, Dilma seems to have decided she doesn't need to say much. Her campaign message is that things are going quite well at the moment, pointing to the fact that Lula was the first president to make any significant moves towards the inclusion of the poor.\u00a0Although she has zero electoral experience, this simple message seems to be working for her with a broadly contented electorate. She doesn't need campaigning knowhow \u2013 she has Lula. And have you seen her videos?", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Where Lula led Brazil ... | Vincent Bevins"},{"date": "2010-07-14T08:09:55Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Rio de Janeiro-based Jornal do Brasil is to stop circulating its 119-year-old print edition and appear only online. Its owner, Nelson Tanure, took the decision after failing to sell the once-influential daily newspaper, which is mired in debt and suffering from a circulation collapse. It sells just 17,000 during the week and 22,000 on Sundays. It has 180 employees, including 60 journalists.Sources: Knight Centre. In Portuguese: O Globo", "tags": ["Media", "Newspapers", "Brazil", "Internet", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil newspaper gives up print to go online only"},{"date": "2010-08-25T16:07:08Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It was always known that in the election on 3 October, Dilma Rousseff would have a big advantage in being the handpicked successor to Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, one of the most popular presidents in Brazilian history. During the two terms of the former leftwing labour organiser, Latin America's biggest country grew at a steady clip and millions of Brazilians rose out of poverty; Lula's approval ratings recently have rarely dropped below the 70s.\u00a0But as the campaign got in full swing last week, and the candidates unveiled their television programming, we were given even more evidence that Dilma would take home the prize. Dilma's main challenger is Jos\u00e9 Serra, the centre-right former governor of S\u00e3o Paulo state. You don't have to speak Portuguese to see that her first TV slots, broadcast at lunchtime and in the evening, quite simply blow his clips out of the water.\u00a0Her evening performance is especially impressive, as she and Lula speak to each other from various locations across the vast country. In comparison, Serra's clips look limp. The production is noticeably worse, and he struggles to establish an independent political project. It's politically risky to attack Lula's domestic record, and for the most part, Serra has avoided doing so.\u00a0Commentators here await impatiently the official TV campaigns, since, by law, television advertising is prohibited until the candidates are allocated pre-arranged slots. In a country still with high levels of illiteracy, the TV spots are seen as extremely important. \u00a0Just a few months ago, though, Dilma was not so well-known and Serra led in the polls. As she gained recognition, she closed in on and surpassed him; she now looks likely to win by a healthy margin, perhaps by enough to avoid a second round. Dilma's TV campaign is dazzling viewers, but more importantly, establishing her clearly as Lula's chosen woman.\u00a0Unlike Lula, who, before entering politics, was a poor metalworker, Dilma was born into the middle class. At university, she became involved in leftwing organisations opposed to the military dictatorship in power at the time, activity which led to her being imprisoned for three years.\u00a0After the country's return to democracy, she made her name in politics and eventually became Lula's minister of energy, then chief of staff.\u00a0She never held elected office.\u00a0As with Lula, the practice of power tamed her earlier radical ideas, and she presents herself as a candidate of the centre-left. Serra portrays himself as a centrist. In reality, they are both close to the centre, made a comfortable political space by a Lula presidency that has pleased most and made few enemies.\u00a0Before he took over in 2003, the prospect of a Lula presidency scared international investors and business interests in Brazil. As it turned out, he quickly moderated his previous positions and they had little to worry about. Demand from China and general economic stability propelled a boom that brought prosperity to most Brazilians. Lula instituted a very popular cash-transfer programme for the country's poor, while avoiding any major moves that would upset Brazil's powerful economic elites. As a consequence, despite economic advances, Brazil remains an extremely unequal society, with shocking levels of violence and social exclusion in some areas. In others, it is as developed as affluent parts of Europe.\u00a0Internationally, Lula carved out an independent foreign policy, sometimes called \"counterhegemonic\", which has been more controversial in board rooms \u2013 and in Washington. He formed close ideological alliances with Hugo Ch\u00e1vez and Fidel Castro, and speaks highly of both. Lula came out strongly against a military coup in Honduras, giving sanctuary to the deposed president in the Brazilian embassy.\u00a0Even more to the chagrin of the US, Brazil has refused to cooperate on Iran, preferring dialogue to sanctions on the nuclear issue and choosing not to isolate Iran (out of the many grave human rights offenders they \u2013 and all other western countries \u2013 do business with). Whether as a result or in spite of these actions, Brazil has played an increasingly influential role in international relations. As a rising economic power, its approval is now sought for more and more multilateral decisions.\u00a0The Iran connection recently became an issue in the presidential campaign, as Serra criticised Lula for being indifferent to human rights. Meanwhile, Lula tried to use his influence in Iran to secure the release of a woman condemned to death by stoning. The appeal, perhaps predictably, failed. But this affair hasn't seemed to have any effect on Dilma's chances.\u00a0What a Dilma presidency might actually look like is still a bit of a secret. She is not likely to stray too far from her predecessor. That is, we assume. Riding Lula's wave of popularity, Dilma seems to have decided she doesn't need to say much. Her campaign message is that things are going quite well at the moment, pointing to the fact that Lula was the first president to make any significant moves towards the inclusion of the poor.\u00a0Although she has zero electoral experience, this simple message seems to be working for her with a broadly contented electorate. She doesn't need campaigning knowhow \u2013 she has Lula. And have you seen her videos?", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Where Lula led Brazil ... | Vincent Bevins"},{"date": "2010-07-14T08:09:55Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Rio de Janeiro-based Jornal do Brasil is to stop circulating its 119-year-old print edition and appear only online. Its owner, Nelson Tanure, took the decision after failing to sell the once-influential daily newspaper, which is mired in debt and suffering from a circulation collapse. It sells just 17,000 during the week and 22,000 on Sundays. It has 180 employees, including 60 journalists.Sources: Knight Centre. In Portuguese: O Globo", "tags": ["Media", "Newspapers", "Brazil", "Internet", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil newspaper gives up print to go online only"},{"date": "2010-09-27T19:13:27Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "In inimitable Brazilian style, the upcoming national elections, to be held on 3 October, have inspired a cavalcade of electoral pledges and corruption scandals. Yet, despite a vigorous electoral race, no candidate has yet credibly tackled the most important challenge and opportunity facing Brazil today: education.Brazil is currently surfing a wave of economic development with a demographic boom to boot. The country's economy has been transformed from the days of stagnation, inflation and crisis, which marred the post-dictatorship political landscape of the 1980s. In the early 90s, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso laid the foundations, and now Brazil is placed as the 10th biggest economy in the world. The outgoing President Luiz In\u00e1cio \"Lula\" da Silva has presided over eight impressive years, which have seen 20 million Brazilians lifted out of absolute poverty and 31 million move into the middle class.One of the biggest successes has been the enormous advances made to school enrolment. This is largely thanks to Brazil's very effective programme, Bolsa Fam\u00edlia (\"Family Fund\"), which pays poor families if their children attend school. This fund has pushed children off the street and into the school room, while also providing the poorest with a well-needed form of income support.Despite these successes, however, Lula has failed to take his battle with poverty as far as he should. The past 16 years have seen governments initiate a variety of reforms, but Brazil's cardinal problems of poverty and inequality still remain. The surge in school attendance has not been matched by a surge in quality: only 39% of Brazilians aged 25-64 have successfully completed upper secondary education (compared to 70% for the UK). Education in Brazil remains under-funded, inefficiently run and, to top it all off, disproportionately benefitting the wealthy. What Brazil now needs is a cultural and structural revolution in education policy.Education is undervalued in Brazilian society and rarely features in debates in the public or private spheres; this is fuelled by average illiteracy levels of 12%. In fact, Lula often used his personal lack of education as a rhetorical tool to undermine his political opponents, the ruling elites. According to the UNDP's recent Human Development Report for Latin America and the Caribbean, 10 of the world's 15 most unequal countries are located in Latin America. Failing education systems lie at the very heart of this problem. It's no coincidence that Brazil is the 10th most unequal country in the world.Latin America has the second youngest population of any of the world's continents (first is Africa). In 30 years, developed economies will be battling against ageing populations; Brazil, on the other hand, will have a young workforce. Brazil needs to harness this demographic boom and train a generation that will go to build the future of this economic giant. As the World Bank warned in 2008, \"unfortunately, in an era of global competition, the current state of education in Brazil means it is likely to fall behind other developing economies in the search for new investment and economic growth opportunities.\"In its current form, the Brazilian education system entrenches inequality and poverty, stifling prosperity for the majority. Due to low educational standards and lack of investment in public schools, 14% of Brazilian children attend private schools. However, most private-school leavers then apply for public, free universities \u2013 which conversely have prestigious reputations and high levels of investment. This severely limits social mobility.In the recent presidential debates, neither of the two frontrunners have proposed any real education reforms. The debates have, instead, been dominated by talk of the economy, development and infrastructure, as the top two candidates follow in the \"developmentalist\" model taken by Lula. Investment in human resources through education, though urgently needed, does not appear to be a vote winner, and the subject has been \"practically ignored\" by the top two presidential candidates.Lula's heir, Dilma Rousseff, is campaigning on the axiom Para o Brasil Seguir Mudando (\"So that Brazil keeps on Changing\"). Although \"more education\" is her fifth campaign priority, she is widely expected to follow Lula's hands-off strategy. Meanwhile, the main opposition candidate, Jos\u00e9 Serra, has committed to expanding the Bolsa Fam\u00edlia programme to include more families, but has failed to put a case forward for specific educational reform. The only candidate to put education at the centre of her election campaign is the Green party's Marina Silva, currently placed a distant third with 10% of the vote, who has promised to increase GDP spending on education from 5% to 7%. (According to a recent OECD report, Brazil spends less per student overall than most OECD countries, especially in primary and secondary schooling.)It's time that Brazilian politicians and the public acted to turn Brazil's education strategy on its head \u2013 diverting generous university funds for the few towards essential schooling for the many. Dilma Rousseff is almost certain to take the presidential reins in just two weeks; yet the question remains, can Brazil \"keep on changing\" if it doesn't overhaul its education system?", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Can Brazil learn from its success? | Si\u00e2n Herbert"},{"date": "2010-08-25T16:07:08Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It was always known that in the election on 3 October, Dilma Rousseff would have a big advantage in being the handpicked successor to Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, one of the most popular presidents in Brazilian history. During the two terms of the former leftwing labour organiser, Latin America's biggest country grew at a steady clip and millions of Brazilians rose out of poverty; Lula's approval ratings recently have rarely dropped below the 70s.\u00a0But as the campaign got in full swing last week, and the candidates unveiled their television programming, we were given even more evidence that Dilma would take home the prize. Dilma's main challenger is Jos\u00e9 Serra, the centre-right former governor of S\u00e3o Paulo state. You don't have to speak Portuguese to see that her first TV slots, broadcast at lunchtime and in the evening, quite simply blow his clips out of the water.\u00a0Her evening performance is especially impressive, as she and Lula speak to each other from various locations across the vast country. In comparison, Serra's clips look limp. The production is noticeably worse, and he struggles to establish an independent political project. It's politically risky to attack Lula's domestic record, and for the most part, Serra has avoided doing so.\u00a0Commentators here await impatiently the official TV campaigns, since, by law, television advertising is prohibited until the candidates are allocated pre-arranged slots. In a country still with high levels of illiteracy, the TV spots are seen as extremely important. \u00a0Just a few months ago, though, Dilma was not so well-known and Serra led in the polls. As she gained recognition, she closed in on and surpassed him; she now looks likely to win by a healthy margin, perhaps by enough to avoid a second round. Dilma's TV campaign is dazzling viewers, but more importantly, establishing her clearly as Lula's chosen woman.\u00a0Unlike Lula, who, before entering politics, was a poor metalworker, Dilma was born into the middle class. At university, she became involved in leftwing organisations opposed to the military dictatorship in power at the time, activity which led to her being imprisoned for three years.\u00a0After the country's return to democracy, she made her name in politics and eventually became Lula's minister of energy, then chief of staff.\u00a0She never held elected office.\u00a0As with Lula, the practice of power tamed her earlier radical ideas, and she presents herself as a candidate of the centre-left. Serra portrays himself as a centrist. In reality, they are both close to the centre, made a comfortable political space by a Lula presidency that has pleased most and made few enemies.\u00a0Before he took over in 2003, the prospect of a Lula presidency scared international investors and business interests in Brazil. As it turned out, he quickly moderated his previous positions and they had little to worry about. Demand from China and general economic stability propelled a boom that brought prosperity to most Brazilians. Lula instituted a very popular cash-transfer programme for the country's poor, while avoiding any major moves that would upset Brazil's powerful economic elites. As a consequence, despite economic advances, Brazil remains an extremely unequal society, with shocking levels of violence and social exclusion in some areas. In others, it is as developed as affluent parts of Europe.\u00a0Internationally, Lula carved out an independent foreign policy, sometimes called \"counterhegemonic\", which has been more controversial in board rooms \u2013 and in Washington. He formed close ideological alliances with Hugo Ch\u00e1vez and Fidel Castro, and speaks highly of both. Lula came out strongly against a military coup in Honduras, giving sanctuary to the deposed president in the Brazilian embassy.\u00a0Even more to the chagrin of the US, Brazil has refused to cooperate on Iran, preferring dialogue to sanctions on the nuclear issue and choosing not to isolate Iran (out of the many grave human rights offenders they \u2013 and all other western countries \u2013 do business with). Whether as a result or in spite of these actions, Brazil has played an increasingly influential role in international relations. As a rising economic power, its approval is now sought for more and more multilateral decisions.\u00a0The Iran connection recently became an issue in the presidential campaign, as Serra criticised Lula for being indifferent to human rights. Meanwhile, Lula tried to use his influence in Iran to secure the release of a woman condemned to death by stoning. The appeal, perhaps predictably, failed. But this affair hasn't seemed to have any effect on Dilma's chances.\u00a0What a Dilma presidency might actually look like is still a bit of a secret. She is not likely to stray too far from her predecessor. That is, we assume. Riding Lula's wave of popularity, Dilma seems to have decided she doesn't need to say much. Her campaign message is that things are going quite well at the moment, pointing to the fact that Lula was the first president to make any significant moves towards the inclusion of the poor.\u00a0Although she has zero electoral experience, this simple message seems to be working for her with a broadly contented electorate. She doesn't need campaigning knowhow \u2013 she has Lula. And have you seen her videos?", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Where Lula led Brazil ... | Vincent Bevins"},{"date": "2010-07-14T08:09:55Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Rio de Janeiro-based Jornal do Brasil is to stop circulating its 119-year-old print edition and appear only online. Its owner, Nelson Tanure, took the decision after failing to sell the once-influential daily newspaper, which is mired in debt and suffering from a circulation collapse. It sells just 17,000 during the week and 22,000 on Sundays. It has 180 employees, including 60 journalists.Sources: Knight Centre. In Portuguese: O Globo", "tags": ["Media", "Newspapers", "Brazil", "Internet", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil newspaper gives up print to go online only"},{"date": "2010-09-27T19:13:27Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "In inimitable Brazilian style, the upcoming national elections, to be held on 3 October, have inspired a cavalcade of electoral pledges and corruption scandals. Yet, despite a vigorous electoral race, no candidate has yet credibly tackled the most important challenge and opportunity facing Brazil today: education.Brazil is currently surfing a wave of economic development with a demographic boom to boot. The country's economy has been transformed from the days of stagnation, inflation and crisis, which marred the post-dictatorship political landscape of the 1980s. In the early 90s, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso laid the foundations, and now Brazil is placed as the 10th biggest economy in the world. The outgoing President Luiz In\u00e1cio \"Lula\" da Silva has presided over eight impressive years, which have seen 20 million Brazilians lifted out of absolute poverty and 31 million move into the middle class.One of the biggest successes has been the enormous advances made to school enrolment. This is largely thanks to Brazil's very effective programme, Bolsa Fam\u00edlia (\"Family Fund\"), which pays poor families if their children attend school. This fund has pushed children off the street and into the school room, while also providing the poorest with a well-needed form of income support.Despite these successes, however, Lula has failed to take his battle with poverty as far as he should. The past 16 years have seen governments initiate a variety of reforms, but Brazil's cardinal problems of poverty and inequality still remain. The surge in school attendance has not been matched by a surge in quality: only 39% of Brazilians aged 25-64 have successfully completed upper secondary education (compared to 70% for the UK). Education in Brazil remains under-funded, inefficiently run and, to top it all off, disproportionately benefitting the wealthy. What Brazil now needs is a cultural and structural revolution in education policy.Education is undervalued in Brazilian society and rarely features in debates in the public or private spheres; this is fuelled by average illiteracy levels of 12%. In fact, Lula often used his personal lack of education as a rhetorical tool to undermine his political opponents, the ruling elites. According to the UNDP's recent Human Development Report for Latin America and the Caribbean, 10 of the world's 15 most unequal countries are located in Latin America. Failing education systems lie at the very heart of this problem. It's no coincidence that Brazil is the 10th most unequal country in the world.Latin America has the second youngest population of any of the world's continents (first is Africa). In 30 years, developed economies will be battling against ageing populations; Brazil, on the other hand, will have a young workforce. Brazil needs to harness this demographic boom and train a generation that will go to build the future of this economic giant. As the World Bank warned in 2008, \"unfortunately, in an era of global competition, the current state of education in Brazil means it is likely to fall behind other developing economies in the search for new investment and economic growth opportunities.\"In its current form, the Brazilian education system entrenches inequality and poverty, stifling prosperity for the majority. Due to low educational standards and lack of investment in public schools, 14% of Brazilian children attend private schools. However, most private-school leavers then apply for public, free universities \u2013 which conversely have prestigious reputations and high levels of investment. This severely limits social mobility.In the recent presidential debates, neither of the two frontrunners have proposed any real education reforms. The debates have, instead, been dominated by talk of the economy, development and infrastructure, as the top two candidates follow in the \"developmentalist\" model taken by Lula. Investment in human resources through education, though urgently needed, does not appear to be a vote winner, and the subject has been \"practically ignored\" by the top two presidential candidates.Lula's heir, Dilma Rousseff, is campaigning on the axiom Para o Brasil Seguir Mudando (\"So that Brazil keeps on Changing\"). Although \"more education\" is her fifth campaign priority, she is widely expected to follow Lula's hands-off strategy. Meanwhile, the main opposition candidate, Jos\u00e9 Serra, has committed to expanding the Bolsa Fam\u00edlia programme to include more families, but has failed to put a case forward for specific educational reform. The only candidate to put education at the centre of her election campaign is the Green party's Marina Silva, currently placed a distant third with 10% of the vote, who has promised to increase GDP spending on education from 5% to 7%. (According to a recent OECD report, Brazil spends less per student overall than most OECD countries, especially in primary and secondary schooling.)It's time that Brazilian politicians and the public acted to turn Brazil's education strategy on its head \u2013 diverting generous university funds for the few towards essential schooling for the many. Dilma Rousseff is almost certain to take the presidential reins in just two weeks; yet the question remains, can Brazil \"keep on changing\" if it doesn't overhaul its education system?", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Can Brazil learn from its success? | Si\u00e2n Herbert"},{"date": "2010-09-21T12:59:42Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva has often spoken of going hungry as a child growing up in a remote village in the north-east of Brazil. One of the first measures Lula took when he came to power in January 2003 was to announce the Fome Zero (no hunger) programme. Almost eight years later, with three months of his second term left to serve, the president is proud of what has been achieved. In 2003, 12% of the population (22 million) did not get enough to eat. That figure has been more than halved, down to 10 million; 28 million of his compatriots have been lifted out of povertyThe key measure is a grant to families living in poverty (less than $1 a day), in the form of a credit card. Some 12 million households (50 million people) currently qualify for the bolsa familia. In 2008 the scheme cost $6bn, just under 2% of government spending. It is nevertheless the world's biggest redistribution programme.Though clearly vital, Candido Grzybowski, the head of the Brazilian Institute of Social and Economic Analysis (Ibase), thinks the bolsa does not go far enough. \"It was a response to an emergency situation, but if it is suspended tomorrow people will go on dying of hunger,\" he said. \"It must be followed up with structural reform, in particular in education.\"\"The problem of hunger remains a concern for Dilma Rousseff,\" the leftwing candidate in the coming presidential election, according to her policy advisor Alessandro Teixeira. \"If she is elected she will improve the bolsa.\"The opposition candidate, Jos\u00e9 Serra, who is standing for the Brazilian Social Democratic party, has also undertaken to maintain the grant, despite his party's frequent attacks on what it refers to as \"assistencialism\".A survey conducted by Ibase revealed that bolsa beneficiaries are afraid the grant will be withdrawn.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil ponders future of successful hunger relief programme"},{"date": "2010-08-25T16:07:08Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It was always known that in the election on 3 October, Dilma Rousseff would have a big advantage in being the handpicked successor to Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, one of the most popular presidents in Brazilian history. During the two terms of the former leftwing labour organiser, Latin America's biggest country grew at a steady clip and millions of Brazilians rose out of poverty; Lula's approval ratings recently have rarely dropped below the 70s.\u00a0But as the campaign got in full swing last week, and the candidates unveiled their television programming, we were given even more evidence that Dilma would take home the prize. Dilma's main challenger is Jos\u00e9 Serra, the centre-right former governor of S\u00e3o Paulo state. You don't have to speak Portuguese to see that her first TV slots, broadcast at lunchtime and in the evening, quite simply blow his clips out of the water.\u00a0Her evening performance is especially impressive, as she and Lula speak to each other from various locations across the vast country. In comparison, Serra's clips look limp. The production is noticeably worse, and he struggles to establish an independent political project. It's politically risky to attack Lula's domestic record, and for the most part, Serra has avoided doing so.\u00a0Commentators here await impatiently the official TV campaigns, since, by law, television advertising is prohibited until the candidates are allocated pre-arranged slots. In a country still with high levels of illiteracy, the TV spots are seen as extremely important. \u00a0Just a few months ago, though, Dilma was not so well-known and Serra led in the polls. As she gained recognition, she closed in on and surpassed him; she now looks likely to win by a healthy margin, perhaps by enough to avoid a second round. Dilma's TV campaign is dazzling viewers, but more importantly, establishing her clearly as Lula's chosen woman.\u00a0Unlike Lula, who, before entering politics, was a poor metalworker, Dilma was born into the middle class. At university, she became involved in leftwing organisations opposed to the military dictatorship in power at the time, activity which led to her being imprisoned for three years.\u00a0After the country's return to democracy, she made her name in politics and eventually became Lula's minister of energy, then chief of staff.\u00a0She never held elected office.\u00a0As with Lula, the practice of power tamed her earlier radical ideas, and she presents herself as a candidate of the centre-left. Serra portrays himself as a centrist. In reality, they are both close to the centre, made a comfortable political space by a Lula presidency that has pleased most and made few enemies.\u00a0Before he took over in 2003, the prospect of a Lula presidency scared international investors and business interests in Brazil. As it turned out, he quickly moderated his previous positions and they had little to worry about. Demand from China and general economic stability propelled a boom that brought prosperity to most Brazilians. Lula instituted a very popular cash-transfer programme for the country's poor, while avoiding any major moves that would upset Brazil's powerful economic elites. As a consequence, despite economic advances, Brazil remains an extremely unequal society, with shocking levels of violence and social exclusion in some areas. In others, it is as developed as affluent parts of Europe.\u00a0Internationally, Lula carved out an independent foreign policy, sometimes called \"counterhegemonic\", which has been more controversial in board rooms \u2013 and in Washington. He formed close ideological alliances with Hugo Ch\u00e1vez and Fidel Castro, and speaks highly of both. Lula came out strongly against a military coup in Honduras, giving sanctuary to the deposed president in the Brazilian embassy.\u00a0Even more to the chagrin of the US, Brazil has refused to cooperate on Iran, preferring dialogue to sanctions on the nuclear issue and choosing not to isolate Iran (out of the many grave human rights offenders they \u2013 and all other western countries \u2013 do business with). Whether as a result or in spite of these actions, Brazil has played an increasingly influential role in international relations. As a rising economic power, its approval is now sought for more and more multilateral decisions.\u00a0The Iran connection recently became an issue in the presidential campaign, as Serra criticised Lula for being indifferent to human rights. Meanwhile, Lula tried to use his influence in Iran to secure the release of a woman condemned to death by stoning. The appeal, perhaps predictably, failed. But this affair hasn't seemed to have any effect on Dilma's chances.\u00a0What a Dilma presidency might actually look like is still a bit of a secret. She is not likely to stray too far from her predecessor. That is, we assume. Riding Lula's wave of popularity, Dilma seems to have decided she doesn't need to say much. Her campaign message is that things are going quite well at the moment, pointing to the fact that Lula was the first president to make any significant moves towards the inclusion of the poor.\u00a0Although she has zero electoral experience, this simple message seems to be working for her with a broadly contented electorate. She doesn't need campaigning knowhow \u2013 she has Lula. And have you seen her videos?", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Where Lula led Brazil ... | Vincent Bevins"},{"date": "2010-07-14T08:09:55Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Rio de Janeiro-based Jornal do Brasil is to stop circulating its 119-year-old print edition and appear only online. Its owner, Nelson Tanure, took the decision after failing to sell the once-influential daily newspaper, which is mired in debt and suffering from a circulation collapse. It sells just 17,000 during the week and 22,000 on Sundays. It has 180 employees, including 60 journalists.Sources: Knight Centre. In Portuguese: O Globo", "tags": ["Media", "Newspapers", "Brazil", "Internet", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil newspaper gives up print to go online only"},{"date": "2010-09-27T19:13:27Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "In inimitable Brazilian style, the upcoming national elections, to be held on 3 October, have inspired a cavalcade of electoral pledges and corruption scandals. Yet, despite a vigorous electoral race, no candidate has yet credibly tackled the most important challenge and opportunity facing Brazil today: education.Brazil is currently surfing a wave of economic development with a demographic boom to boot. The country's economy has been transformed from the days of stagnation, inflation and crisis, which marred the post-dictatorship political landscape of the 1980s. In the early 90s, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso laid the foundations, and now Brazil is placed as the 10th biggest economy in the world. The outgoing President Luiz In\u00e1cio \"Lula\" da Silva has presided over eight impressive years, which have seen 20 million Brazilians lifted out of absolute poverty and 31 million move into the middle class.One of the biggest successes has been the enormous advances made to school enrolment. This is largely thanks to Brazil's very effective programme, Bolsa Fam\u00edlia (\"Family Fund\"), which pays poor families if their children attend school. This fund has pushed children off the street and into the school room, while also providing the poorest with a well-needed form of income support.Despite these successes, however, Lula has failed to take his battle with poverty as far as he should. The past 16 years have seen governments initiate a variety of reforms, but Brazil's cardinal problems of poverty and inequality still remain. The surge in school attendance has not been matched by a surge in quality: only 39% of Brazilians aged 25-64 have successfully completed upper secondary education (compared to 70% for the UK). Education in Brazil remains under-funded, inefficiently run and, to top it all off, disproportionately benefitting the wealthy. What Brazil now needs is a cultural and structural revolution in education policy.Education is undervalued in Brazilian society and rarely features in debates in the public or private spheres; this is fuelled by average illiteracy levels of 12%. In fact, Lula often used his personal lack of education as a rhetorical tool to undermine his political opponents, the ruling elites. According to the UNDP's recent Human Development Report for Latin America and the Caribbean, 10 of the world's 15 most unequal countries are located in Latin America. Failing education systems lie at the very heart of this problem. It's no coincidence that Brazil is the 10th most unequal country in the world.Latin America has the second youngest population of any of the world's continents (first is Africa). In 30 years, developed economies will be battling against ageing populations; Brazil, on the other hand, will have a young workforce. Brazil needs to harness this demographic boom and train a generation that will go to build the future of this economic giant. As the World Bank warned in 2008, \"unfortunately, in an era of global competition, the current state of education in Brazil means it is likely to fall behind other developing economies in the search for new investment and economic growth opportunities.\"In its current form, the Brazilian education system entrenches inequality and poverty, stifling prosperity for the majority. Due to low educational standards and lack of investment in public schools, 14% of Brazilian children attend private schools. However, most private-school leavers then apply for public, free universities \u2013 which conversely have prestigious reputations and high levels of investment. This severely limits social mobility.In the recent presidential debates, neither of the two frontrunners have proposed any real education reforms. The debates have, instead, been dominated by talk of the economy, development and infrastructure, as the top two candidates follow in the \"developmentalist\" model taken by Lula. Investment in human resources through education, though urgently needed, does not appear to be a vote winner, and the subject has been \"practically ignored\" by the top two presidential candidates.Lula's heir, Dilma Rousseff, is campaigning on the axiom Para o Brasil Seguir Mudando (\"So that Brazil keeps on Changing\"). Although \"more education\" is her fifth campaign priority, she is widely expected to follow Lula's hands-off strategy. Meanwhile, the main opposition candidate, Jos\u00e9 Serra, has committed to expanding the Bolsa Fam\u00edlia programme to include more families, but has failed to put a case forward for specific educational reform. The only candidate to put education at the centre of her election campaign is the Green party's Marina Silva, currently placed a distant third with 10% of the vote, who has promised to increase GDP spending on education from 5% to 7%. (According to a recent OECD report, Brazil spends less per student overall than most OECD countries, especially in primary and secondary schooling.)It's time that Brazilian politicians and the public acted to turn Brazil's education strategy on its head \u2013 diverting generous university funds for the few towards essential schooling for the many. Dilma Rousseff is almost certain to take the presidential reins in just two weeks; yet the question remains, can Brazil \"keep on changing\" if it doesn't overhaul its education system?", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Can Brazil learn from its success? | Si\u00e2n Herbert"},{"date": "2010-09-21T12:59:42Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva has often spoken of going hungry as a child growing up in a remote village in the north-east of Brazil. One of the first measures Lula took when he came to power in January 2003 was to announce the Fome Zero (no hunger) programme. Almost eight years later, with three months of his second term left to serve, the president is proud of what has been achieved. In 2003, 12% of the population (22 million) did not get enough to eat. That figure has been more than halved, down to 10 million; 28 million of his compatriots have been lifted out of povertyThe key measure is a grant to families living in poverty (less than $1 a day), in the form of a credit card. Some 12 million households (50 million people) currently qualify for the bolsa familia. In 2008 the scheme cost $6bn, just under 2% of government spending. It is nevertheless the world's biggest redistribution programme.Though clearly vital, Candido Grzybowski, the head of the Brazilian Institute of Social and Economic Analysis (Ibase), thinks the bolsa does not go far enough. \"It was a response to an emergency situation, but if it is suspended tomorrow people will go on dying of hunger,\" he said. \"It must be followed up with structural reform, in particular in education.\"\"The problem of hunger remains a concern for Dilma Rousseff,\" the leftwing candidate in the coming presidential election, according to her policy advisor Alessandro Teixeira. \"If she is elected she will improve the bolsa.\"The opposition candidate, Jos\u00e9 Serra, who is standing for the Brazilian Social Democratic party, has also undertaken to maintain the grant, despite his party's frequent attacks on what it refers to as \"assistencialism\".A survey conducted by Ibase revealed that bolsa beneficiaries are afraid the grant will be withdrawn.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil ponders future of successful hunger relief programme"},{"date": "2010-08-05T08:16:06Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Outside Dr Gilberto C\u00e2mara's office, there is a large and beautiful satellite map of Brazil. From the fractal elegance of the Amazon and its tributaries, to the ochre fields holding sugar, soy and cattle, to the twinkling mega-cities of S\u00e3o Paulo and Rio de Janeiro in the south, the map shows why he thinks Brazil can be the world's first environmental superpower.C\u00e3mara leads Brazil's National Institute for Space Research (INPE). His startling claim, he explains in his easy English, rests on turning a piece of standard economic theory on its head. Nations develop their economies by moving up the value chain, away from churning out commodities and towards manufacturing, say the textbooks. Brazil has abundant natural resources, so the key to prosperity is to start making stuff, right? Wrong, he says, because of the \"China effect\".China mass manufactures at rock bottom prices, with the consequence that over the past two decades the cost of manufactured goods has fallen fast, while demand has pushed up cost of the commodities used to make the goods.C\u00e2mara has adopted the slogan: \"Brazil \u2013 the natural knowledge economy\". He describes this as applying knowledge and technology to commodities to boost their value, and reels off examples: biofuels, in which Brazil leads world research thanks to its sugar cane ethanol and growing biodiesel production; renewable energy \u2013 47% of the country's energy is already green, a world record; and climate change \u2013 Brazil's Amazon is vital to the planet's health. Of course, it also has plenty of timber, beef, iron and aluminium, though he doesn't boast about those.\"Brazil's natural knowledge economy offers more opportunities for internal [national] research than our manufacturing industry,\" he says. \"There is no opportunity in, say cars, as VW designs those in Germany.\" C\u00e2mara also suggests the approach will allow Brazil to avoid the \"resources curse\", reeling off Venezuela, Angola, Saudi Arabia and Sierra Leone as examples. Brazil wouldn't be the first nation to get rich on its resources, but it aims to be the first to do without destroying its own economy or environment.So what are the catches? Having just travelled through the Amazon and then to meet ministers and other senior officials in the capital Brasilia, as well as scientists and green campaigners, I can think of a few: the country's jumbo oil discoveries, continuing deforestation, fast rising energy needs, a vast rich-poor divide and widespread local corruption and insecurity, not to mention whether they can find a way to get paid the premium needed to fund environmental responsibility.First, let's take the vast oil finds off the coast of Rio \u2013 50bn barrels of it \u2013 which within a few years will make Brazil a global petro-power. That, Brazil's special ambassador for climate change Sergio Serra told me, presents a \"big challenge\".\"Our present policy is not to change the energy mix,\" he said, which is currently dominated by hydroelectric power and biofuels. \"But of course the temptation will be great, enormous.\" An economy supercharged by petrol would not be very environmental.Keeping to your greenhouse gas emissions pledges would be, on the other hand. And, gushing oil or not, environment minister Izabella Teixeira, says Brazil will meet its 2020 targets, which are pretty tough for an emerging country like Brazil. The key is stopping deforestation, particularly in the Amazon, and the latest figures suggest they are making fast progress. But populist changes proposed to the Forest Code laws protecting the forest, bolstered by Brazil's chasm between rich and poor and allegations of a rich world conspiracy to keep Brazil poor, pose a serious threat.Nonetheless, Teixeira is clear that the economic development of the Amazon region, and the infrastructure to achieve it, will forge ahead. This despite protests such as those that attracted Avatar director James Cameron to the Belo Monte dam site recently. \"I cannot forget this region,\" she tells me. \"When we talk of hydropower, 66% of the potential is still in the Amazon. Can you imagine a country that has this not using this? Impossible.\"Maurio Zimmermann, the energy minister, shows an equally green conviction with a series of verbal punches: 50% of the fuel in Brazil's cars is ethanol; the government auction to buy 2,400MW of wind power was oversubscribed by four times; Brazil is on target to be the second biggest uranium producer; carbon capture and storage experiments are underway.He also mentions the 13 million Brazilians who have gained access to electricity for the first time in the last few years, with the final 300,000 switching on the lights next year. A tremendous achievement, and one he happily admits will drive up demand for power.Another bold claim comes from the head of the country's environmental protection agency, Ibama. Basking in the glow of the latest deforestation figures and Brazil's resurgent economy, Am\u00e9rico Tunes says his agency's enforcement work has broken the historic link between growth and consumption of the rainforest. \"In the presence of political will and dedication, we can cut deforestation without damaging economic growth. It is absolutely not true that you cannot.\"But Brazil is vast \u2013 about four times bigger than western Europe - and local corruption is rife. An Ibama enforcement officer tells me that the masterminds behind major deforestation are often local politicians. The legal system can be sclerotic \u2013 just 0.3% of all the 250,000 fines imposed by Ibama have been paid. And the populist calls to tear up the land in the name of development have millions of eager listeners.Brazil is at a major fork in the road on its journey to prosperity. One path is rough, with few signposts and has never been walked by any country: the route to growth without environmental and atmospheric vandalism. The other is well paved and lit, with an easy-to-follow map. It is called business as usual, though it may very well end in a sheer drop. Success is far from assured, but Brazil appears ready to take on the hard road and prove that \"environmental superpower\" is not an oxymoron.\u2022 Damian Carrington's travel expenses were paid for by the Brazilian government. They had no say in the content of this article\u2022 This article was amended on 6 August 2010 to correct the spelling of S\u00e3o Paulo.", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Energy", "Environment", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Can Brazil become the world's first environmental superpower? | Damian Carrington"},{"date": "2010-08-25T16:07:08Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It was always known that in the election on 3 October, Dilma Rousseff would have a big advantage in being the handpicked successor to Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, one of the most popular presidents in Brazilian history. During the two terms of the former leftwing labour organiser, Latin America's biggest country grew at a steady clip and millions of Brazilians rose out of poverty; Lula's approval ratings recently have rarely dropped below the 70s.\u00a0But as the campaign got in full swing last week, and the candidates unveiled their television programming, we were given even more evidence that Dilma would take home the prize. Dilma's main challenger is Jos\u00e9 Serra, the centre-right former governor of S\u00e3o Paulo state. You don't have to speak Portuguese to see that her first TV slots, broadcast at lunchtime and in the evening, quite simply blow his clips out of the water.\u00a0Her evening performance is especially impressive, as she and Lula speak to each other from various locations across the vast country. In comparison, Serra's clips look limp. The production is noticeably worse, and he struggles to establish an independent political project. It's politically risky to attack Lula's domestic record, and for the most part, Serra has avoided doing so.\u00a0Commentators here await impatiently the official TV campaigns, since, by law, television advertising is prohibited until the candidates are allocated pre-arranged slots. In a country still with high levels of illiteracy, the TV spots are seen as extremely important. \u00a0Just a few months ago, though, Dilma was not so well-known and Serra led in the polls. As she gained recognition, she closed in on and surpassed him; she now looks likely to win by a healthy margin, perhaps by enough to avoid a second round. Dilma's TV campaign is dazzling viewers, but more importantly, establishing her clearly as Lula's chosen woman.\u00a0Unlike Lula, who, before entering politics, was a poor metalworker, Dilma was born into the middle class. At university, she became involved in leftwing organisations opposed to the military dictatorship in power at the time, activity which led to her being imprisoned for three years.\u00a0After the country's return to democracy, she made her name in politics and eventually became Lula's minister of energy, then chief of staff.\u00a0She never held elected office.\u00a0As with Lula, the practice of power tamed her earlier radical ideas, and she presents herself as a candidate of the centre-left. Serra portrays himself as a centrist. In reality, they are both close to the centre, made a comfortable political space by a Lula presidency that has pleased most and made few enemies.\u00a0Before he took over in 2003, the prospect of a Lula presidency scared international investors and business interests in Brazil. As it turned out, he quickly moderated his previous positions and they had little to worry about. Demand from China and general economic stability propelled a boom that brought prosperity to most Brazilians. Lula instituted a very popular cash-transfer programme for the country's poor, while avoiding any major moves that would upset Brazil's powerful economic elites. As a consequence, despite economic advances, Brazil remains an extremely unequal society, with shocking levels of violence and social exclusion in some areas. In others, it is as developed as affluent parts of Europe.\u00a0Internationally, Lula carved out an independent foreign policy, sometimes called \"counterhegemonic\", which has been more controversial in board rooms \u2013 and in Washington. He formed close ideological alliances with Hugo Ch\u00e1vez and Fidel Castro, and speaks highly of both. Lula came out strongly against a military coup in Honduras, giving sanctuary to the deposed president in the Brazilian embassy.\u00a0Even more to the chagrin of the US, Brazil has refused to cooperate on Iran, preferring dialogue to sanctions on the nuclear issue and choosing not to isolate Iran (out of the many grave human rights offenders they \u2013 and all other western countries \u2013 do business with). Whether as a result or in spite of these actions, Brazil has played an increasingly influential role in international relations. As a rising economic power, its approval is now sought for more and more multilateral decisions.\u00a0The Iran connection recently became an issue in the presidential campaign, as Serra criticised Lula for being indifferent to human rights. Meanwhile, Lula tried to use his influence in Iran to secure the release of a woman condemned to death by stoning. The appeal, perhaps predictably, failed. But this affair hasn't seemed to have any effect on Dilma's chances.\u00a0What a Dilma presidency might actually look like is still a bit of a secret. She is not likely to stray too far from her predecessor. That is, we assume. Riding Lula's wave of popularity, Dilma seems to have decided she doesn't need to say much. Her campaign message is that things are going quite well at the moment, pointing to the fact that Lula was the first president to make any significant moves towards the inclusion of the poor.\u00a0Although she has zero electoral experience, this simple message seems to be working for her with a broadly contented electorate. She doesn't need campaigning knowhow \u2013 she has Lula. And have you seen her videos?", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Where Lula led Brazil ... | Vincent Bevins"},{"date": "2010-07-14T08:09:55Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Rio de Janeiro-based Jornal do Brasil is to stop circulating its 119-year-old print edition and appear only online. Its owner, Nelson Tanure, took the decision after failing to sell the once-influential daily newspaper, which is mired in debt and suffering from a circulation collapse. It sells just 17,000 during the week and 22,000 on Sundays. It has 180 employees, including 60 journalists.Sources: Knight Centre. In Portuguese: O Globo", "tags": ["Media", "Newspapers", "Brazil", "Internet", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil newspaper gives up print to go online only"},{"date": "2010-09-27T19:13:27Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "In inimitable Brazilian style, the upcoming national elections, to be held on 3 October, have inspired a cavalcade of electoral pledges and corruption scandals. Yet, despite a vigorous electoral race, no candidate has yet credibly tackled the most important challenge and opportunity facing Brazil today: education.Brazil is currently surfing a wave of economic development with a demographic boom to boot. The country's economy has been transformed from the days of stagnation, inflation and crisis, which marred the post-dictatorship political landscape of the 1980s. In the early 90s, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso laid the foundations, and now Brazil is placed as the 10th biggest economy in the world. The outgoing President Luiz In\u00e1cio \"Lula\" da Silva has presided over eight impressive years, which have seen 20 million Brazilians lifted out of absolute poverty and 31 million move into the middle class.One of the biggest successes has been the enormous advances made to school enrolment. This is largely thanks to Brazil's very effective programme, Bolsa Fam\u00edlia (\"Family Fund\"), which pays poor families if their children attend school. This fund has pushed children off the street and into the school room, while also providing the poorest with a well-needed form of income support.Despite these successes, however, Lula has failed to take his battle with poverty as far as he should. The past 16 years have seen governments initiate a variety of reforms, but Brazil's cardinal problems of poverty and inequality still remain. The surge in school attendance has not been matched by a surge in quality: only 39% of Brazilians aged 25-64 have successfully completed upper secondary education (compared to 70% for the UK). Education in Brazil remains under-funded, inefficiently run and, to top it all off, disproportionately benefitting the wealthy. What Brazil now needs is a cultural and structural revolution in education policy.Education is undervalued in Brazilian society and rarely features in debates in the public or private spheres; this is fuelled by average illiteracy levels of 12%. In fact, Lula often used his personal lack of education as a rhetorical tool to undermine his political opponents, the ruling elites. According to the UNDP's recent Human Development Report for Latin America and the Caribbean, 10 of the world's 15 most unequal countries are located in Latin America. Failing education systems lie at the very heart of this problem. It's no coincidence that Brazil is the 10th most unequal country in the world.Latin America has the second youngest population of any of the world's continents (first is Africa). In 30 years, developed economies will be battling against ageing populations; Brazil, on the other hand, will have a young workforce. Brazil needs to harness this demographic boom and train a generation that will go to build the future of this economic giant. As the World Bank warned in 2008, \"unfortunately, in an era of global competition, the current state of education in Brazil means it is likely to fall behind other developing economies in the search for new investment and economic growth opportunities.\"In its current form, the Brazilian education system entrenches inequality and poverty, stifling prosperity for the majority. Due to low educational standards and lack of investment in public schools, 14% of Brazilian children attend private schools. However, most private-school leavers then apply for public, free universities \u2013 which conversely have prestigious reputations and high levels of investment. This severely limits social mobility.In the recent presidential debates, neither of the two frontrunners have proposed any real education reforms. The debates have, instead, been dominated by talk of the economy, development and infrastructure, as the top two candidates follow in the \"developmentalist\" model taken by Lula. Investment in human resources through education, though urgently needed, does not appear to be a vote winner, and the subject has been \"practically ignored\" by the top two presidential candidates.Lula's heir, Dilma Rousseff, is campaigning on the axiom Para o Brasil Seguir Mudando (\"So that Brazil keeps on Changing\"). Although \"more education\" is her fifth campaign priority, she is widely expected to follow Lula's hands-off strategy. Meanwhile, the main opposition candidate, Jos\u00e9 Serra, has committed to expanding the Bolsa Fam\u00edlia programme to include more families, but has failed to put a case forward for specific educational reform. The only candidate to put education at the centre of her election campaign is the Green party's Marina Silva, currently placed a distant third with 10% of the vote, who has promised to increase GDP spending on education from 5% to 7%. (According to a recent OECD report, Brazil spends less per student overall than most OECD countries, especially in primary and secondary schooling.)It's time that Brazilian politicians and the public acted to turn Brazil's education strategy on its head \u2013 diverting generous university funds for the few towards essential schooling for the many. Dilma Rousseff is almost certain to take the presidential reins in just two weeks; yet the question remains, can Brazil \"keep on changing\" if it doesn't overhaul its education system?", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Can Brazil learn from its success? | Si\u00e2n Herbert"},{"date": "2010-09-21T12:59:42Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva has often spoken of going hungry as a child growing up in a remote village in the north-east of Brazil. One of the first measures Lula took when he came to power in January 2003 was to announce the Fome Zero (no hunger) programme. Almost eight years later, with three months of his second term left to serve, the president is proud of what has been achieved. In 2003, 12% of the population (22 million) did not get enough to eat. That figure has been more than halved, down to 10 million; 28 million of his compatriots have been lifted out of povertyThe key measure is a grant to families living in poverty (less than $1 a day), in the form of a credit card. Some 12 million households (50 million people) currently qualify for the bolsa familia. In 2008 the scheme cost $6bn, just under 2% of government spending. It is nevertheless the world's biggest redistribution programme.Though clearly vital, Candido Grzybowski, the head of the Brazilian Institute of Social and Economic Analysis (Ibase), thinks the bolsa does not go far enough. \"It was a response to an emergency situation, but if it is suspended tomorrow people will go on dying of hunger,\" he said. \"It must be followed up with structural reform, in particular in education.\"\"The problem of hunger remains a concern for Dilma Rousseff,\" the leftwing candidate in the coming presidential election, according to her policy advisor Alessandro Teixeira. \"If she is elected she will improve the bolsa.\"The opposition candidate, Jos\u00e9 Serra, who is standing for the Brazilian Social Democratic party, has also undertaken to maintain the grant, despite his party's frequent attacks on what it refers to as \"assistencialism\".A survey conducted by Ibase revealed that bolsa beneficiaries are afraid the grant will be withdrawn.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil ponders future of successful hunger relief programme"},{"date": "2010-08-05T08:16:06Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Outside Dr Gilberto C\u00e2mara's office, there is a large and beautiful satellite map of Brazil. From the fractal elegance of the Amazon and its tributaries, to the ochre fields holding sugar, soy and cattle, to the twinkling mega-cities of S\u00e3o Paulo and Rio de Janeiro in the south, the map shows why he thinks Brazil can be the world's first environmental superpower.C\u00e3mara leads Brazil's National Institute for Space Research (INPE). His startling claim, he explains in his easy English, rests on turning a piece of standard economic theory on its head. Nations develop their economies by moving up the value chain, away from churning out commodities and towards manufacturing, say the textbooks. Brazil has abundant natural resources, so the key to prosperity is to start making stuff, right? Wrong, he says, because of the \"China effect\".China mass manufactures at rock bottom prices, with the consequence that over the past two decades the cost of manufactured goods has fallen fast, while demand has pushed up cost of the commodities used to make the goods.C\u00e2mara has adopted the slogan: \"Brazil \u2013 the natural knowledge economy\". He describes this as applying knowledge and technology to commodities to boost their value, and reels off examples: biofuels, in which Brazil leads world research thanks to its sugar cane ethanol and growing biodiesel production; renewable energy \u2013 47% of the country's energy is already green, a world record; and climate change \u2013 Brazil's Amazon is vital to the planet's health. Of course, it also has plenty of timber, beef, iron and aluminium, though he doesn't boast about those.\"Brazil's natural knowledge economy offers more opportunities for internal [national] research than our manufacturing industry,\" he says. \"There is no opportunity in, say cars, as VW designs those in Germany.\" C\u00e2mara also suggests the approach will allow Brazil to avoid the \"resources curse\", reeling off Venezuela, Angola, Saudi Arabia and Sierra Leone as examples. Brazil wouldn't be the first nation to get rich on its resources, but it aims to be the first to do without destroying its own economy or environment.So what are the catches? Having just travelled through the Amazon and then to meet ministers and other senior officials in the capital Brasilia, as well as scientists and green campaigners, I can think of a few: the country's jumbo oil discoveries, continuing deforestation, fast rising energy needs, a vast rich-poor divide and widespread local corruption and insecurity, not to mention whether they can find a way to get paid the premium needed to fund environmental responsibility.First, let's take the vast oil finds off the coast of Rio \u2013 50bn barrels of it \u2013 which within a few years will make Brazil a global petro-power. That, Brazil's special ambassador for climate change Sergio Serra told me, presents a \"big challenge\".\"Our present policy is not to change the energy mix,\" he said, which is currently dominated by hydroelectric power and biofuels. \"But of course the temptation will be great, enormous.\" An economy supercharged by petrol would not be very environmental.Keeping to your greenhouse gas emissions pledges would be, on the other hand. And, gushing oil or not, environment minister Izabella Teixeira, says Brazil will meet its 2020 targets, which are pretty tough for an emerging country like Brazil. The key is stopping deforestation, particularly in the Amazon, and the latest figures suggest they are making fast progress. But populist changes proposed to the Forest Code laws protecting the forest, bolstered by Brazil's chasm between rich and poor and allegations of a rich world conspiracy to keep Brazil poor, pose a serious threat.Nonetheless, Teixeira is clear that the economic development of the Amazon region, and the infrastructure to achieve it, will forge ahead. This despite protests such as those that attracted Avatar director James Cameron to the Belo Monte dam site recently. \"I cannot forget this region,\" she tells me. \"When we talk of hydropower, 66% of the potential is still in the Amazon. Can you imagine a country that has this not using this? Impossible.\"Maurio Zimmermann, the energy minister, shows an equally green conviction with a series of verbal punches: 50% of the fuel in Brazil's cars is ethanol; the government auction to buy 2,400MW of wind power was oversubscribed by four times; Brazil is on target to be the second biggest uranium producer; carbon capture and storage experiments are underway.He also mentions the 13 million Brazilians who have gained access to electricity for the first time in the last few years, with the final 300,000 switching on the lights next year. A tremendous achievement, and one he happily admits will drive up demand for power.Another bold claim comes from the head of the country's environmental protection agency, Ibama. Basking in the glow of the latest deforestation figures and Brazil's resurgent economy, Am\u00e9rico Tunes says his agency's enforcement work has broken the historic link between growth and consumption of the rainforest. \"In the presence of political will and dedication, we can cut deforestation without damaging economic growth. It is absolutely not true that you cannot.\"But Brazil is vast \u2013 about four times bigger than western Europe - and local corruption is rife. An Ibama enforcement officer tells me that the masterminds behind major deforestation are often local politicians. The legal system can be sclerotic \u2013 just 0.3% of all the 250,000 fines imposed by Ibama have been paid. And the populist calls to tear up the land in the name of development have millions of eager listeners.Brazil is at a major fork in the road on its journey to prosperity. One path is rough, with few signposts and has never been walked by any country: the route to growth without environmental and atmospheric vandalism. The other is well paved and lit, with an easy-to-follow map. It is called business as usual, though it may very well end in a sheer drop. Success is far from assured, but Brazil appears ready to take on the hard road and prove that \"environmental superpower\" is not an oxymoron.\u2022 Damian Carrington's travel expenses were paid for by the Brazilian government. They had no say in the content of this article\u2022 This article was amended on 6 August 2010 to correct the spelling of S\u00e3o Paulo.", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Energy", "Environment", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Can Brazil become the world's first environmental superpower? | Damian Carrington"},{"date": "2010-07-23T15:35:18Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Twenty years ago, it seemed as if Brazil couldn't stop dreaming about its future. Now the future has arrived; Brazil is an economic and political world leader with a seat at the globe's most influential table. Yet the country still faces the fundamental renegotiations of power \u2013 between rich and poor, women and men, black and white, indigenous and immigrant, city and rural communities. Recognising that without a new and radical approach Brazil will never achieve its promise for a just society, engaged artists in the favelas of Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Salvador and in rural areas across the country are pioneering new approaches to giving communities a real voice. But their work doesn't spring randomly from unconnected initiatives \u2013 it's part of a strategic plan to create an entire network of socially committed cultural projects.In 2003, the Brazilian government created an initiative called Points of Culture: thousands of community and arts projects of all sizes and types that would work to strengthen people's involvement in the life of their neighbourhoods and the larger society. The idea came from the legendary musician Gilberto Gil who had agreed to become culture minister for a five-year period under President Lula. The very act of having artists in the centre of government sent a signal of serious intent. Throughout his ministry poets, playwrights and philosophers worked in the executive, bringing a new language of aspiration and inventiveness to that of government.But what does it mean when politicians pledge to put \"imagination at the service of the people\", as the Brazilian government has done? First, it's a recognition that culture and positive cultural expression is the foundation of identity and pride for all of us. But culture isn't simple, and one size doesn't fit all \u2013 it's very personal, particular to individuals, groups, tribes, neighbourhoods and regions. It has to spring from the circumstances of place, economics and tradition, and be captured in vivid and powerful ways. Second, politicians in Brazil believe that professional artists can play a key role in developing people's confidence, happiness and sense of self. Third, it's a declaration of their respect and love for the people of Brazil \u2013 regardless of their economic or educational privilege \u2013 and a desire to improve the lives and opportunities of all those millions of citizens who remain marginalized and unable to fulfil their potential. It was a bold, demanding mission to launch and to sustain, but one that has proved so successful it is now spreading to other parts of Latin America.When I was creating Southbank Centre's summer-long Festival Brazil, I wanted to reveal what Brazil was thinking about; how its artistic vitality is bound up in its democratic urge to transform and reinvent the world, and how much the artists of Brazil believe in the creative capacity of everyone. Tonight, in a debate entitled The Edge of the Future: Renegotiating Power, Jose Junior \u2013 who founded the powerful AfroReggae movement \u2013 discusses the choice of young people to turn away from drug and gun culture and towards music, dance and poetry as a way of finding status and \"family\". Tomorrow, Luiz Eduardo Soares, formerly Brazil's National Secretary of Public Security, a man who dealt with some of Rio's most alarming clashes between police and gangs, will talk about how hip-hop artists and photographers helped him forge communication between lawmakers and young people.For both these debates, there will be weighty contributions from some of the UK's important cultural projects, too. We will hear from the Koestler Trust, who work with prisoners and young offenders, about why the arts serves as a unique tool of rehabilitation. And Camila Batmanghelidjh brings her experience and vision of Kids Company and the central role that the arts can play in supporting young people to manage their circumstances differently.The UK currently has the finest arts ecology in the world, including many outstanding cultural initiatives that work at grassroots level. But it doesn't have a comprehensive programme that offers communities \u2013 and particularly young people \u2013 the right to work with artists in ways that would substantially change their sense of what is possible. Britain is a society in flux, and we need bold ideas that strengthen our communities. Brazil's belief in the importance of culture to the lives of its people is far-sighted, and can provide inspiration to us all.", "tags": ["Art", "Art and design", "Music", "Culture", "Social exclusion", "Social enterprises", "Camila Batmanghelidjh", "Poverty", "Communities", "Gangs", "Society", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Points of culture: what Brazil can teach Britain about art | Jude Kelly"},{"date": "2010-11-02T00:02:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "If voters in the US are about to put back the clocks on a presidency dedicated to radical change, it is heartening to see other nations further south doing the opposite. As he reads the projections on the eve of the midterm elections, Barack Obama must envy the ovation at the polls given to Dilma Rousseff, President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva's handpicked successor. Brazil's first woman president won after a tough and, at times, ugly campaign, in which she was accused of being anti-Christian, for wanting to legalise abortion, and a terrorist, for resisting a military dictatorship which jailed and tortured her. Ms Rousseff was made of sterner stuff, and her election is first and foremost a sign that Brazil wants \"Lulismo\" to continue through her.Inevitably, she will disappoint. After two terms, Lula has the status of a divine entity at home. A born negotiator who presided over an economic boom, Lula pulled more than 20\u00a0million Brazilians out of extreme poverty while 30 million joined the middle class. Per capita income grew by just under a fifth from 2002 to 2010 and unemployment reduced to a record low. It was change that Brazilians could feel.Ms Rousseff comes to power in different circumstances and with very different skills. She is a no-nonsense technocrat with a quick temper. She had to check her natural anger with the Jeremy Paxman of Brazil when an electronic clock malfunctioned during a live television debate. Perhaps that was why she was kept away from the foreign press during her campaign. While the managerial issues of her presidency will present her with no difficulty, the politics of it might. Flattering and cajoling is not her strong suit, although she arrives in power with majorities in both upper and lower houses.The economic boom that Brazil has enjoyed also presents different challenges. It is set to be the world's fifth largest economy by the time it hosts the Olympic Games in 2016, and will not be immune to growing pains. Not unlike Russia, another member of the \"Bric\" countries, its export boom comes from primary products such as iron ore, crude oil, soya beans and wood pulp. China, Brazil's largest trading partner, is hoovering it all up. But exports in cars, shoes or textiles are a different matter. Like Russia, Brazil faces deindustrialisation if it fails to compete as a manufacturer. But for that it needs to tackle the more intractable problems \u2013 like salaries, pensions, the tax system, and public debt \u2013 which Lula showed little desire to reform.Ms Rousseff has her work cut out, and may face a shorter honeymoon than her creator enjoyed. The important thing is that the vision of a nation that pulls millions from poverty as its economy grows is kept alive.", "tags": ["Dilma Rousseff", "Brazil", "World news"], "title": "Brazil: Hard act to follow"},{"date": "2010-11-02T00:02:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "If voters in the US are about to put back the clocks on a presidency dedicated to radical change, it is heartening to see other nations further south doing the opposite. As he reads the projections on the eve of the midterm elections, Barack Obama must envy the ovation at the polls given to Dilma Rousseff, President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva's handpicked successor. Brazil's first woman president won after a tough and, at times, ugly campaign, in which she was accused of being anti-Christian, for wanting to legalise abortion, and a terrorist, for resisting a military dictatorship which jailed and tortured her. Ms Rousseff was made of sterner stuff, and her election is first and foremost a sign that Brazil wants \"Lulismo\" to continue through her.Inevitably, she will disappoint. After two terms, Lula has the status of a divine entity at home. A born negotiator who presided over an economic boom, Lula pulled more than 20\u00a0million Brazilians out of extreme poverty while 30 million joined the middle class. Per capita income grew by just under a fifth from 2002 to 2010 and unemployment reduced to a record low. It was change that Brazilians could feel.Ms Rousseff comes to power in different circumstances and with very different skills. She is a no-nonsense technocrat with a quick temper. She had to check her natural anger with the Jeremy Paxman of Brazil when an electronic clock malfunctioned during a live television debate. Perhaps that was why she was kept away from the foreign press during her campaign. While the managerial issues of her presidency will present her with no difficulty, the politics of it might. Flattering and cajoling is not her strong suit, although she arrives in power with majorities in both upper and lower houses.The economic boom that Brazil has enjoyed also presents different challenges. It is set to be the world's fifth largest economy by the time it hosts the Olympic Games in 2016, and will not be immune to growing pains. Not unlike Russia, another member of the \"Bric\" countries, its export boom comes from primary products such as iron ore, crude oil, soya beans and wood pulp. China, Brazil's largest trading partner, is hoovering it all up. But exports in cars, shoes or textiles are a different matter. Like Russia, Brazil faces deindustrialisation if it fails to compete as a manufacturer. But for that it needs to tackle the more intractable problems \u2013 like salaries, pensions, the tax system, and public debt \u2013 which Lula showed little desire to reform.Ms Rousseff has her work cut out, and may face a shorter honeymoon than her creator enjoyed. The important thing is that the vision of a nation that pulls millions from poverty as its economy grows is kept alive.", "tags": ["Dilma Rousseff", "Brazil", "World news"], "title": "Brazil: Hard act to follow"},{"date": "2010-11-01T02:00:20Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Like the rally led by Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert of Comedy Central that brought hundreds of thousands of people into the streets of Washington, DC on Saturday, Brazil's election on Sunday was a contest of \"Restore Sanity\" versus \"Keep Fear Alive\" \u2013 but with the fate of millions of Brazilians seriously at stake.Dilma Rousseff of the governing Workers' party coasted to victory against the opposition candidate Jos\u00e9 Serra, with a comfortable margin of 56 to 44%. It had been a bitter and ugly campaign, marked by allegations of corruption and malfeasance on both sides, ending with Serra's wife calling Dilma a \"baby-killer.\"Religious groups and leaders mobilised for the Serra campaign and accused Dilma of wanting to legalise abortion, ban religious symbols, being \"anti-Christian\", and a \"terrorist\" for her resistance to the military dictatorship during the late 1960s. The whole campaign was all too reminiscent of Republican strategies in the United States, going back to the rise of the religious right in the 1980s, through the \"Swift Boat\" politics and Karl Rove's \"Weapons of Mass Distraction\" of recent years. Serra even had a rightwing foreign policy strategy that prompted one critic to label him \"Serra Palin\". His campaign threatened to alienate Brazil from most of its neighbours by accusing the Bolivian government of being \"complicit\" in drug trafficking and Venezuela of \"sheltering\" the Farc (the main guerrilla group) in Colombia.He attacked outgoing President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva for his refusal \u2013 along with most of the rest of South America \u2013 to recognise the government of Honduras. The Honduran government was \"elected\" following a military coup last year, under conditions of censorship and human rights abuses such that only the United States and a handful of mostly rightwing allies recognised it as \"free and fair\".But in the end, sanity triumphed over fear, as voters proved to have been more convinced by the substantial improvements in their well-being during the Lula years than anything Serra had to offer.It is perhaps not surprising that Serra, an economist, would try to find a way to avoid the most important economic issues that affect the lives of the majority of Brazilians. The economy has performed much better during the Lula years than during the eight years of rule by Serra's Social Democratic party (PSDB): per capita income grew by 23% from 2002 to 2010, as opposed to just 3.5% for 1994 to 2002. Measured unemployment is now at a record low of 6.2%.Perhaps even more importantly, the majority of Brazilians enjoyed substantial gains: the minimum wage, adjusted for inflation, grew by about 65% during Lula's presidency. This is more than three times the increase during the prior eight years (that is, the presidency of Fernando Henrique Cardoso, of Serra's party). This affects not only minimum-wage workers, but tens of millions of others whose income is tied to the minimum wage. In addition, the government has expanded the Bolsa Familia programme, which provides small cash grants to poor families on condition of school attendance and health immunisation compliance. The programme has been successful in reducing illiteracy, and now reaches about 13m families. More than 19 million people have been shifted across the poverty line since 2003. And a new scheme of subsidies for home ownership has benefitted hundreds of thousands of families, with millions likely to take part, as it expands.Although the brand of Republican campaign strategy borrowed by Serra was effective for most of the last four decades in the United States, it hasn't performed all that well as an export. The Brazilian electorate tired quickly of the mudslinging; and swing voters wanted to know what Serra would do for them that would be better than what the Workers' party had done. When he couldn't tell them, he lost their votes.On the down side, the negative campaigning prevented the election campaign generally from addressing some of the vital issues of Brazil's future. Brazil's financial elite, which dominates the central bank, has an influence on economic policy that is at least as bad \u2013 and as powerful \u2013 as that of Wall Street in the United States. This is one reason why Brazil, even under Lula, has had, for many years, the highest or near-highest real interest rates in the world. Brazil's growth performance has still not been on a par with the other \"Bric\" countries (Russia, India, China), and the country will have to move away from some of the neoliberal policies of previous governments in order to achieve its potential.Capital formation during the Lula years was not much different from during the Cardoso years, and was relatively low compared to many developing countries. Public investment was even lower, although it has recently begun to accelerate. The country will need a development strategy, and one that establishes new patterns of investment and consumption to advance the interests of the majority of Brazilians \u2013 some 50 million of whom remain in poverty.The election has enormous implications for the western hemisphere, where the Obama State Department has continued, with barely a stutter, the Bush administration's strategy of \"rollback\" against the unprecedented independence that the left governments of South America have won over the last decade. A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC foreign policy establishment.It also has implications for the rest of the world. In May, Brazil and Turkey broke new ground in the world of international diplomacy, by negotiating a nuclear fuel swap arrangement for Iran, in an attempt to resolve the standoff over Iran's nuclear programme. The State Department was probably more upset about this than anything that Brazil had done in the region, including Lula's strong and consistent support for the government of President Hugo Chav\u00e9z in Venezuela. Serra, for his part, had attacked the Iran deal during his campaign.Outside of Washington, then, Dilma Rousseff's win in this election, consolidating President Lula's achievements, will be greeted as good news.\u2022 This article was amended at 11:30 [EST] on 1 November 2010, where it read \"A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC establishment reactionaries\", to the author's preferred version: \"A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC foreign policy establishment.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Republicans", "US news", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Global development", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "US politics"], "title": "Brazil wins with Dilma Rousseff | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-11-02T00:02:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "If voters in the US are about to put back the clocks on a presidency dedicated to radical change, it is heartening to see other nations further south doing the opposite. As he reads the projections on the eve of the midterm elections, Barack Obama must envy the ovation at the polls given to Dilma Rousseff, President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva's handpicked successor. Brazil's first woman president won after a tough and, at times, ugly campaign, in which she was accused of being anti-Christian, for wanting to legalise abortion, and a terrorist, for resisting a military dictatorship which jailed and tortured her. Ms Rousseff was made of sterner stuff, and her election is first and foremost a sign that Brazil wants \"Lulismo\" to continue through her.Inevitably, she will disappoint. After two terms, Lula has the status of a divine entity at home. A born negotiator who presided over an economic boom, Lula pulled more than 20\u00a0million Brazilians out of extreme poverty while 30 million joined the middle class. Per capita income grew by just under a fifth from 2002 to 2010 and unemployment reduced to a record low. It was change that Brazilians could feel.Ms Rousseff comes to power in different circumstances and with very different skills. She is a no-nonsense technocrat with a quick temper. She had to check her natural anger with the Jeremy Paxman of Brazil when an electronic clock malfunctioned during a live television debate. Perhaps that was why she was kept away from the foreign press during her campaign. While the managerial issues of her presidency will present her with no difficulty, the politics of it might. Flattering and cajoling is not her strong suit, although she arrives in power with majorities in both upper and lower houses.The economic boom that Brazil has enjoyed also presents different challenges. It is set to be the world's fifth largest economy by the time it hosts the Olympic Games in 2016, and will not be immune to growing pains. Not unlike Russia, another member of the \"Bric\" countries, its export boom comes from primary products such as iron ore, crude oil, soya beans and wood pulp. China, Brazil's largest trading partner, is hoovering it all up. But exports in cars, shoes or textiles are a different matter. Like Russia, Brazil faces deindustrialisation if it fails to compete as a manufacturer. But for that it needs to tackle the more intractable problems \u2013 like salaries, pensions, the tax system, and public debt \u2013 which Lula showed little desire to reform.Ms Rousseff has her work cut out, and may face a shorter honeymoon than her creator enjoyed. The important thing is that the vision of a nation that pulls millions from poverty as its economy grows is kept alive.", "tags": ["Dilma Rousseff", "Brazil", "World news"], "title": "Brazil: Hard act to follow"},{"date": "2010-11-01T02:00:20Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Like the rally led by Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert of Comedy Central that brought hundreds of thousands of people into the streets of Washington, DC on Saturday, Brazil's election on Sunday was a contest of \"Restore Sanity\" versus \"Keep Fear Alive\" \u2013 but with the fate of millions of Brazilians seriously at stake.Dilma Rousseff of the governing Workers' party coasted to victory against the opposition candidate Jos\u00e9 Serra, with a comfortable margin of 56 to 44%. It had been a bitter and ugly campaign, marked by allegations of corruption and malfeasance on both sides, ending with Serra's wife calling Dilma a \"baby-killer.\"Religious groups and leaders mobilised for the Serra campaign and accused Dilma of wanting to legalise abortion, ban religious symbols, being \"anti-Christian\", and a \"terrorist\" for her resistance to the military dictatorship during the late 1960s. The whole campaign was all too reminiscent of Republican strategies in the United States, going back to the rise of the religious right in the 1980s, through the \"Swift Boat\" politics and Karl Rove's \"Weapons of Mass Distraction\" of recent years. Serra even had a rightwing foreign policy strategy that prompted one critic to label him \"Serra Palin\". His campaign threatened to alienate Brazil from most of its neighbours by accusing the Bolivian government of being \"complicit\" in drug trafficking and Venezuela of \"sheltering\" the Farc (the main guerrilla group) in Colombia.He attacked outgoing President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva for his refusal \u2013 along with most of the rest of South America \u2013 to recognise the government of Honduras. The Honduran government was \"elected\" following a military coup last year, under conditions of censorship and human rights abuses such that only the United States and a handful of mostly rightwing allies recognised it as \"free and fair\".But in the end, sanity triumphed over fear, as voters proved to have been more convinced by the substantial improvements in their well-being during the Lula years than anything Serra had to offer.It is perhaps not surprising that Serra, an economist, would try to find a way to avoid the most important economic issues that affect the lives of the majority of Brazilians. The economy has performed much better during the Lula years than during the eight years of rule by Serra's Social Democratic party (PSDB): per capita income grew by 23% from 2002 to 2010, as opposed to just 3.5% for 1994 to 2002. Measured unemployment is now at a record low of 6.2%.Perhaps even more importantly, the majority of Brazilians enjoyed substantial gains: the minimum wage, adjusted for inflation, grew by about 65% during Lula's presidency. This is more than three times the increase during the prior eight years (that is, the presidency of Fernando Henrique Cardoso, of Serra's party). This affects not only minimum-wage workers, but tens of millions of others whose income is tied to the minimum wage. In addition, the government has expanded the Bolsa Familia programme, which provides small cash grants to poor families on condition of school attendance and health immunisation compliance. The programme has been successful in reducing illiteracy, and now reaches about 13m families. More than 19 million people have been shifted across the poverty line since 2003. And a new scheme of subsidies for home ownership has benefitted hundreds of thousands of families, with millions likely to take part, as it expands.Although the brand of Republican campaign strategy borrowed by Serra was effective for most of the last four decades in the United States, it hasn't performed all that well as an export. The Brazilian electorate tired quickly of the mudslinging; and swing voters wanted to know what Serra would do for them that would be better than what the Workers' party had done. When he couldn't tell them, he lost their votes.On the down side, the negative campaigning prevented the election campaign generally from addressing some of the vital issues of Brazil's future. Brazil's financial elite, which dominates the central bank, has an influence on economic policy that is at least as bad \u2013 and as powerful \u2013 as that of Wall Street in the United States. This is one reason why Brazil, even under Lula, has had, for many years, the highest or near-highest real interest rates in the world. Brazil's growth performance has still not been on a par with the other \"Bric\" countries (Russia, India, China), and the country will have to move away from some of the neoliberal policies of previous governments in order to achieve its potential.Capital formation during the Lula years was not much different from during the Cardoso years, and was relatively low compared to many developing countries. Public investment was even lower, although it has recently begun to accelerate. The country will need a development strategy, and one that establishes new patterns of investment and consumption to advance the interests of the majority of Brazilians \u2013 some 50 million of whom remain in poverty.The election has enormous implications for the western hemisphere, where the Obama State Department has continued, with barely a stutter, the Bush administration's strategy of \"rollback\" against the unprecedented independence that the left governments of South America have won over the last decade. A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC foreign policy establishment.It also has implications for the rest of the world. In May, Brazil and Turkey broke new ground in the world of international diplomacy, by negotiating a nuclear fuel swap arrangement for Iran, in an attempt to resolve the standoff over Iran's nuclear programme. The State Department was probably more upset about this than anything that Brazil had done in the region, including Lula's strong and consistent support for the government of President Hugo Chav\u00e9z in Venezuela. Serra, for his part, had attacked the Iran deal during his campaign.Outside of Washington, then, Dilma Rousseff's win in this election, consolidating President Lula's achievements, will be greeted as good news.\u2022 This article was amended at 11:30 [EST] on 1 November 2010, where it read \"A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC establishment reactionaries\", to the author's preferred version: \"A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC foreign policy establishment.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Republicans", "US news", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Global development", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "US politics"], "title": "Brazil wins with Dilma Rousseff | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-10-02T23:07:41Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Night was falling on Rio's Ipanema beach. Inside the Londra bar at the upmarket Fasano hotel, waiters were making the final adjustments before throwing open the frosted-glass door to the city's most exclusive nightspot.The bar staff weaved between Sex Pistols-inspired Philippe Starck armchairs shipped in from France. Behind an immaculate bar, stocked with glowing bottles of 12-year-old Glenlivet whisky and buckets of Veuve Clicquot, the cocktail chief showed off his latest creation \u2013 a Martini bloody mary topped with scarlet foam.\"This is a 'sceney' place: a place to see and be seen,\" said Paula Bezerra de Mello, head of PR at what is generally thought to be Rio's most sophisticated hotel. It was, she said, part of the \"new luxury\" of the Lula era.As a former trade unionist, Brazil's hugely popular president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, is best known for helping his country's poor during an eight-year reign that is entering its final moments. According to the government, more than 20 million Brazilians have been hauled out of poverty since Lula came to power. But the rich have not done badly either.Night after night Londra \u2013 \"London\" \u2013 is packed with foreign celebrities and the great and good of Rio's high society, who come together to savour some of the most expensive cocktails in town. They dance until gone 3am and enjoy the charms of a place that many see as a key symbol of the \"new Brazil\": a dynamic nation of talented designers, successful international jet-setters and, of course, beautiful people.With the economy once again on the move and the Olympics and World Cup on the way, there is a certain something in the Rio air right now; a swagger that can be felt not only in Ipanema's luxurious nightspots, but also in the city's impoverished slums \u2013 favelas \u2013 and remote Amazonian towns where shopping malls and cinemas are sprouting from the ground with growing pace.\"There is a greater excitement, an optimism,\" said Rog\u00e9rio Fasano, Brazil's most revered hotelier and restaurateur, who studied film-making in London and conceived Londra as an Italian-tinged homage to his former home. \"I feel that people are seeing Brazil in a different way \u2013 not just in terms of tourism, but in terms of business,\" he said.Many, though not all, attribute this upbeat mood and palpable self-confidence to one man: Lula. According to a poll released on Wednesday, Lula will leave office after two terms with an approval rating of an astronomical 81%.Today the curtains will begin to go down on the \"era Lula\". Unless the presidential race is forced into a second round, Brazilians will discover who will pick up where Lula left off.If polls are to be believed, Lula's successor will be Dilma Rousseff, a former student rebel who rose to be Lula's chief of staff after spending three years in jail under the former military dictatorship. She has a reputation as a respected enforcer entrusted to lead the soon-to-be-ex-president's gigantic economic growth programme, pumping billions into social programmes and infrastructure works.The new president officially takes over on 1 January, 2011. But between now and then historians will pore over one central question: how did Brazil's first working-class leader achieve such a startlingly vibrant legacy?For his Workers' party activists and other Lula allies, the answer remains simple. \"I am 68 years old and I can tell you that Lula was a president who changed the history of Brazil for the poor and humble,\" said Benedita da Silva, a Rio politician who was the first African-Brazilian woman elected to the country's Senate. She briefly served as Lula's social development minister before being caught up in a bribery scandal.Few understand the transformations that Brazil has undergone under Lula better than one of the president's namesakes, a woman who was raised in Chapeu-Mangueira, a Copacabana favela around 10 minutes' drive from Londra, and who has witnessed up close the changes in Brazil's most deprived corners.\"[As a child] I didn't have water. I didn't have electricity. I didn't have a comfortable brick home. Today, these projects are arriving in the communities,\" she said on Thursday during a campaigning event in Nova Igua\u00e7u, an impoverished town in the rundown suburbs of Rio de Janeiro.\"I know what it means to go hungry. I know what it means to live below the poverty line; to not have water, or electricity, or a school for your child; to not be able to get a job because you have no education or because you live in the favela and no one will give you a job because they are scared.\"It was early afternoon and the veteran Workers' party politician \u2013 who claims to be a particular fan of President Lula's homemade soup \u2013 was busy hunting for votes in a bid to be elected to the Brazilian Congress.\"We haven't come here to speak badly about [other politicians]. We have come to show the work that Lula has done,\" she told the largely supportive crowds through a crackly PA system.\"People may not like it, but it is the truth. In the history of our country, Lula has been a great president.\"Around her the Workers' party activists brandished red-and-white flags that were emblazoned with the slogan: \"She's like Lula \u2013 she has the soul of the people.\"Valdinei Medina, a 29-year-old community leader in the slum where Benedita da Silva was born, was nine when Lula appeared at Chapeu Mangueira shantytown high above Copacabana beach. \"He stood right over there under the jackfruit tree,\" he beamed. \"I have a photo of it in the association.\"The year was 1989 and Lula, a former shoeshine boy and fiery union leader, had come to this hillside favela as he made his first bid to become Brazilian president.\"People thought: 'Wow! A presidential candidate has come to the slum!'\" remembered Medina, a keen Lula supporter. \"Back then the slum was complicated. It was something rare. It went down [in our] history.\"Lula lost that year and was not elected president until 2002. But millions of impoverished Brazilians, among them many of Chapeu Mangueira's 3,000-odd residents, are certain it was worth the wait.\"It's like Obama said, 'He's the man',\" said Medina, just before the start of Brazil's final presidential debate. \"Economically things have changed a lot. Before people didn't have phones at home or mobile phones, cars and motorbikes. Today in any favela you go to, the poor man can get these things, can get loans and this is down to Lula, without doubt.\"When Lula took over it was as if the country was coming out of a war. And today things have stabilised. We are no longer known as the country of football and beautiful women. We are known as country that is economically strong.\"Lula's support is not universal. Many believe Lula's success, and the country's growing prosperity, owes more to the commodities boom than to any personal merit and warn that a growing government deficit threatens to cause a major headache in coming years. Others attribute Brazil's recent boom to Lula's predecessor, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, who helped stabilise the country's erratic economy in the early 1990s and, perhaps understandably, feels somewhat aggrieved at the lack of recognition.\"I did the reforms. Lula surfed the wave,\" Cardoso told the Financial Times recently.But no one can argue with those popularity figures. Back in Londra, Mello was celebrating her country's new financial and cultural renaissance \u2013 it is one of the BRIC nations, Brazil, Russia, India and China, which are in the forefront of new economic development \u2013 and pondering the outcome of the election: \"Right now, Lula could elect this [sachet of] sugar if he wanted,\" she said, reaching out for the sugar bowl. \"That is how much charisma and power he has.\"Everybody referred to Brazil as a sleeping giant, and I think what people are realising now is that we are awake,\" she explained in immaculate American English. \"[Being labelled a] BRIC was a significant positioning \u2026 [for people] to realise that there were these four incredibly powerful potential markets. We've always had 'it', and of course the Olympics and the World Cup reiterated that fact,\" she said. \"Now it is official.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Lula's Brazil: glitzy, rich, dynamic"},{"date": "2010-11-02T00:02:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "If voters in the US are about to put back the clocks on a presidency dedicated to radical change, it is heartening to see other nations further south doing the opposite. As he reads the projections on the eve of the midterm elections, Barack Obama must envy the ovation at the polls given to Dilma Rousseff, President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva's handpicked successor. Brazil's first woman president won after a tough and, at times, ugly campaign, in which she was accused of being anti-Christian, for wanting to legalise abortion, and a terrorist, for resisting a military dictatorship which jailed and tortured her. Ms Rousseff was made of sterner stuff, and her election is first and foremost a sign that Brazil wants \"Lulismo\" to continue through her.Inevitably, she will disappoint. After two terms, Lula has the status of a divine entity at home. A born negotiator who presided over an economic boom, Lula pulled more than 20\u00a0million Brazilians out of extreme poverty while 30 million joined the middle class. Per capita income grew by just under a fifth from 2002 to 2010 and unemployment reduced to a record low. It was change that Brazilians could feel.Ms Rousseff comes to power in different circumstances and with very different skills. She is a no-nonsense technocrat with a quick temper. She had to check her natural anger with the Jeremy Paxman of Brazil when an electronic clock malfunctioned during a live television debate. Perhaps that was why she was kept away from the foreign press during her campaign. While the managerial issues of her presidency will present her with no difficulty, the politics of it might. Flattering and cajoling is not her strong suit, although she arrives in power with majorities in both upper and lower houses.The economic boom that Brazil has enjoyed also presents different challenges. It is set to be the world's fifth largest economy by the time it hosts the Olympic Games in 2016, and will not be immune to growing pains. Not unlike Russia, another member of the \"Bric\" countries, its export boom comes from primary products such as iron ore, crude oil, soya beans and wood pulp. China, Brazil's largest trading partner, is hoovering it all up. But exports in cars, shoes or textiles are a different matter. Like Russia, Brazil faces deindustrialisation if it fails to compete as a manufacturer. But for that it needs to tackle the more intractable problems \u2013 like salaries, pensions, the tax system, and public debt \u2013 which Lula showed little desire to reform.Ms Rousseff has her work cut out, and may face a shorter honeymoon than her creator enjoyed. The important thing is that the vision of a nation that pulls millions from poverty as its economy grows is kept alive.", "tags": ["Dilma Rousseff", "Brazil", "World news"], "title": "Brazil: Hard act to follow"},{"date": "2010-11-01T02:00:20Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Like the rally led by Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert of Comedy Central that brought hundreds of thousands of people into the streets of Washington, DC on Saturday, Brazil's election on Sunday was a contest of \"Restore Sanity\" versus \"Keep Fear Alive\" \u2013 but with the fate of millions of Brazilians seriously at stake.Dilma Rousseff of the governing Workers' party coasted to victory against the opposition candidate Jos\u00e9 Serra, with a comfortable margin of 56 to 44%. It had been a bitter and ugly campaign, marked by allegations of corruption and malfeasance on both sides, ending with Serra's wife calling Dilma a \"baby-killer.\"Religious groups and leaders mobilised for the Serra campaign and accused Dilma of wanting to legalise abortion, ban religious symbols, being \"anti-Christian\", and a \"terrorist\" for her resistance to the military dictatorship during the late 1960s. The whole campaign was all too reminiscent of Republican strategies in the United States, going back to the rise of the religious right in the 1980s, through the \"Swift Boat\" politics and Karl Rove's \"Weapons of Mass Distraction\" of recent years. Serra even had a rightwing foreign policy strategy that prompted one critic to label him \"Serra Palin\". His campaign threatened to alienate Brazil from most of its neighbours by accusing the Bolivian government of being \"complicit\" in drug trafficking and Venezuela of \"sheltering\" the Farc (the main guerrilla group) in Colombia.He attacked outgoing President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva for his refusal \u2013 along with most of the rest of South America \u2013 to recognise the government of Honduras. The Honduran government was \"elected\" following a military coup last year, under conditions of censorship and human rights abuses such that only the United States and a handful of mostly rightwing allies recognised it as \"free and fair\".But in the end, sanity triumphed over fear, as voters proved to have been more convinced by the substantial improvements in their well-being during the Lula years than anything Serra had to offer.It is perhaps not surprising that Serra, an economist, would try to find a way to avoid the most important economic issues that affect the lives of the majority of Brazilians. The economy has performed much better during the Lula years than during the eight years of rule by Serra's Social Democratic party (PSDB): per capita income grew by 23% from 2002 to 2010, as opposed to just 3.5% for 1994 to 2002. Measured unemployment is now at a record low of 6.2%.Perhaps even more importantly, the majority of Brazilians enjoyed substantial gains: the minimum wage, adjusted for inflation, grew by about 65% during Lula's presidency. This is more than three times the increase during the prior eight years (that is, the presidency of Fernando Henrique Cardoso, of Serra's party). This affects not only minimum-wage workers, but tens of millions of others whose income is tied to the minimum wage. In addition, the government has expanded the Bolsa Familia programme, which provides small cash grants to poor families on condition of school attendance and health immunisation compliance. The programme has been successful in reducing illiteracy, and now reaches about 13m families. More than 19 million people have been shifted across the poverty line since 2003. And a new scheme of subsidies for home ownership has benefitted hundreds of thousands of families, with millions likely to take part, as it expands.Although the brand of Republican campaign strategy borrowed by Serra was effective for most of the last four decades in the United States, it hasn't performed all that well as an export. The Brazilian electorate tired quickly of the mudslinging; and swing voters wanted to know what Serra would do for them that would be better than what the Workers' party had done. When he couldn't tell them, he lost their votes.On the down side, the negative campaigning prevented the election campaign generally from addressing some of the vital issues of Brazil's future. Brazil's financial elite, which dominates the central bank, has an influence on economic policy that is at least as bad \u2013 and as powerful \u2013 as that of Wall Street in the United States. This is one reason why Brazil, even under Lula, has had, for many years, the highest or near-highest real interest rates in the world. Brazil's growth performance has still not been on a par with the other \"Bric\" countries (Russia, India, China), and the country will have to move away from some of the neoliberal policies of previous governments in order to achieve its potential.Capital formation during the Lula years was not much different from during the Cardoso years, and was relatively low compared to many developing countries. Public investment was even lower, although it has recently begun to accelerate. The country will need a development strategy, and one that establishes new patterns of investment and consumption to advance the interests of the majority of Brazilians \u2013 some 50 million of whom remain in poverty.The election has enormous implications for the western hemisphere, where the Obama State Department has continued, with barely a stutter, the Bush administration's strategy of \"rollback\" against the unprecedented independence that the left governments of South America have won over the last decade. A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC foreign policy establishment.It also has implications for the rest of the world. In May, Brazil and Turkey broke new ground in the world of international diplomacy, by negotiating a nuclear fuel swap arrangement for Iran, in an attempt to resolve the standoff over Iran's nuclear programme. The State Department was probably more upset about this than anything that Brazil had done in the region, including Lula's strong and consistent support for the government of President Hugo Chav\u00e9z in Venezuela. Serra, for his part, had attacked the Iran deal during his campaign.Outside of Washington, then, Dilma Rousseff's win in this election, consolidating President Lula's achievements, will be greeted as good news.\u2022 This article was amended at 11:30 [EST] on 1 November 2010, where it read \"A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC establishment reactionaries\", to the author's preferred version: \"A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC foreign policy establishment.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Republicans", "US news", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Global development", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "US politics"], "title": "Brazil wins with Dilma Rousseff | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-10-02T23:07:41Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Night was falling on Rio's Ipanema beach. Inside the Londra bar at the upmarket Fasano hotel, waiters were making the final adjustments before throwing open the frosted-glass door to the city's most exclusive nightspot.The bar staff weaved between Sex Pistols-inspired Philippe Starck armchairs shipped in from France. Behind an immaculate bar, stocked with glowing bottles of 12-year-old Glenlivet whisky and buckets of Veuve Clicquot, the cocktail chief showed off his latest creation \u2013 a Martini bloody mary topped with scarlet foam.\"This is a 'sceney' place: a place to see and be seen,\" said Paula Bezerra de Mello, head of PR at what is generally thought to be Rio's most sophisticated hotel. It was, she said, part of the \"new luxury\" of the Lula era.As a former trade unionist, Brazil's hugely popular president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, is best known for helping his country's poor during an eight-year reign that is entering its final moments. According to the government, more than 20 million Brazilians have been hauled out of poverty since Lula came to power. But the rich have not done badly either.Night after night Londra \u2013 \"London\" \u2013 is packed with foreign celebrities and the great and good of Rio's high society, who come together to savour some of the most expensive cocktails in town. They dance until gone 3am and enjoy the charms of a place that many see as a key symbol of the \"new Brazil\": a dynamic nation of talented designers, successful international jet-setters and, of course, beautiful people.With the economy once again on the move and the Olympics and World Cup on the way, there is a certain something in the Rio air right now; a swagger that can be felt not only in Ipanema's luxurious nightspots, but also in the city's impoverished slums \u2013 favelas \u2013 and remote Amazonian towns where shopping malls and cinemas are sprouting from the ground with growing pace.\"There is a greater excitement, an optimism,\" said Rog\u00e9rio Fasano, Brazil's most revered hotelier and restaurateur, who studied film-making in London and conceived Londra as an Italian-tinged homage to his former home. \"I feel that people are seeing Brazil in a different way \u2013 not just in terms of tourism, but in terms of business,\" he said.Many, though not all, attribute this upbeat mood and palpable self-confidence to one man: Lula. According to a poll released on Wednesday, Lula will leave office after two terms with an approval rating of an astronomical 81%.Today the curtains will begin to go down on the \"era Lula\". Unless the presidential race is forced into a second round, Brazilians will discover who will pick up where Lula left off.If polls are to be believed, Lula's successor will be Dilma Rousseff, a former student rebel who rose to be Lula's chief of staff after spending three years in jail under the former military dictatorship. She has a reputation as a respected enforcer entrusted to lead the soon-to-be-ex-president's gigantic economic growth programme, pumping billions into social programmes and infrastructure works.The new president officially takes over on 1 January, 2011. But between now and then historians will pore over one central question: how did Brazil's first working-class leader achieve such a startlingly vibrant legacy?For his Workers' party activists and other Lula allies, the answer remains simple. \"I am 68 years old and I can tell you that Lula was a president who changed the history of Brazil for the poor and humble,\" said Benedita da Silva, a Rio politician who was the first African-Brazilian woman elected to the country's Senate. She briefly served as Lula's social development minister before being caught up in a bribery scandal.Few understand the transformations that Brazil has undergone under Lula better than one of the president's namesakes, a woman who was raised in Chapeu-Mangueira, a Copacabana favela around 10 minutes' drive from Londra, and who has witnessed up close the changes in Brazil's most deprived corners.\"[As a child] I didn't have water. I didn't have electricity. I didn't have a comfortable brick home. Today, these projects are arriving in the communities,\" she said on Thursday during a campaigning event in Nova Igua\u00e7u, an impoverished town in the rundown suburbs of Rio de Janeiro.\"I know what it means to go hungry. I know what it means to live below the poverty line; to not have water, or electricity, or a school for your child; to not be able to get a job because you have no education or because you live in the favela and no one will give you a job because they are scared.\"It was early afternoon and the veteran Workers' party politician \u2013 who claims to be a particular fan of President Lula's homemade soup \u2013 was busy hunting for votes in a bid to be elected to the Brazilian Congress.\"We haven't come here to speak badly about [other politicians]. We have come to show the work that Lula has done,\" she told the largely supportive crowds through a crackly PA system.\"People may not like it, but it is the truth. In the history of our country, Lula has been a great president.\"Around her the Workers' party activists brandished red-and-white flags that were emblazoned with the slogan: \"She's like Lula \u2013 she has the soul of the people.\"Valdinei Medina, a 29-year-old community leader in the slum where Benedita da Silva was born, was nine when Lula appeared at Chapeu Mangueira shantytown high above Copacabana beach. \"He stood right over there under the jackfruit tree,\" he beamed. \"I have a photo of it in the association.\"The year was 1989 and Lula, a former shoeshine boy and fiery union leader, had come to this hillside favela as he made his first bid to become Brazilian president.\"People thought: 'Wow! A presidential candidate has come to the slum!'\" remembered Medina, a keen Lula supporter. \"Back then the slum was complicated. It was something rare. It went down [in our] history.\"Lula lost that year and was not elected president until 2002. But millions of impoverished Brazilians, among them many of Chapeu Mangueira's 3,000-odd residents, are certain it was worth the wait.\"It's like Obama said, 'He's the man',\" said Medina, just before the start of Brazil's final presidential debate. \"Economically things have changed a lot. Before people didn't have phones at home or mobile phones, cars and motorbikes. Today in any favela you go to, the poor man can get these things, can get loans and this is down to Lula, without doubt.\"When Lula took over it was as if the country was coming out of a war. And today things have stabilised. We are no longer known as the country of football and beautiful women. We are known as country that is economically strong.\"Lula's support is not universal. Many believe Lula's success, and the country's growing prosperity, owes more to the commodities boom than to any personal merit and warn that a growing government deficit threatens to cause a major headache in coming years. Others attribute Brazil's recent boom to Lula's predecessor, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, who helped stabilise the country's erratic economy in the early 1990s and, perhaps understandably, feels somewhat aggrieved at the lack of recognition.\"I did the reforms. Lula surfed the wave,\" Cardoso told the Financial Times recently.But no one can argue with those popularity figures. Back in Londra, Mello was celebrating her country's new financial and cultural renaissance \u2013 it is one of the BRIC nations, Brazil, Russia, India and China, which are in the forefront of new economic development \u2013 and pondering the outcome of the election: \"Right now, Lula could elect this [sachet of] sugar if he wanted,\" she said, reaching out for the sugar bowl. \"That is how much charisma and power he has.\"Everybody referred to Brazil as a sleeping giant, and I think what people are realising now is that we are awake,\" she explained in immaculate American English. \"[Being labelled a] BRIC was a significant positioning \u2026 [for people] to realise that there were these four incredibly powerful potential markets. We've always had 'it', and of course the Olympics and the World Cup reiterated that fact,\" she said. \"Now it is official.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Lula's Brazil: glitzy, rich, dynamic"},{"date": "2010-11-30T14:06:18Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When Pel\u00e9 became an international star at the 1958 World Cup, he immediately became a powerful symbol for Brazil. Black and aged only 17, he played football with a smile on his face \u2013 a wonderful metaphor for a young, racially mixed and culturally vibrant country.Back then Brazil was a country on the rise. Its new capital, Bras\u00edlia, was being built at a frenetic pace and President Juscelino Kubitschek was promising \"50 years progress in five.\"In 2010, the most famous Brazilian in Britain is Wagner Fiuza-Carrilho, a 54-year-old bleached blond former karate teacher and losing X Factor contestant. He too is a perfect ambassador for his homeland.Brazil in 2010 is again a country on the rise. It's now the world's eighth largest economy, with increasing diplomatic clout and will host the World Cup in 2014 and the Olympics in 2016.Pel\u00e9 was synonymous with being the best in the world. Wagner, on the other hand, was the least talented singer on this year's X Factor.And that's my point. As Brazil has changed over the last half century so has its sense of self-esteem. Today it is a much more confident nation. It doesn't need to produce winners to feel good about itself the way that it needed to before. As a culture it has so much to feel proud about. Including \u2013 if not, especially \u2013 Wagner.When I first saw Wagner I was captivated by him because I saw so many of the qualities that I love about Brazil and Brazilians. It struck me as offensive and wrong to describe him as an oddball or wacky. Even though much was made of the fact that people only voted for him as a protest vote against Simon Cowell, I think he won over many viewers with his humility, charm and humanity. We weren't laughing at him, we were laughing with him. The public was bear-hugging, not bear-baiting.I lived in Rio for five years. One of the most noticeable aspects of living there is how un-ageist it is \u2013 young children are welcomed wherever you go, and equally no one would think twice if you went to a samba club with your grandparents. Age doesn't seem to define you in the way that it does in the UK. There is nothing more natural than a 54-year-old wanting to take part in a talent show aimed at people less than half his age.Likewise the informality between generations is reflected in more communal behaviour generally. Carnival is a spectacle where everyone who attends takes part. The transformative process of plucking the boy or girl next door and making them sing and dance on a stage was happening on the streets of Rio long before it was in ITV studios.Wagner's personal story is also deeply evocative of modern Brazil. He was born in the north-eastern state of Para\u00edba but moved as a child to Rio de Janeiro. There is a social stigma in being from Para\u00edba, since it is one of the most economically backward states, and Wagner would have felt like an outsider in his own country. In fact, when I saw Wagner berated by Cheryl Cole for allegedly making disparaging comments about her upbringing, it reminded me of the patronising way the Rio rich often reprimand their maids or porters, often from states like Para\u00edba.Wagner's dignified response to Cheryl seemed to completely throw her. He was cordial, modest and affectionate. That's the Brazilian way.The writer Euclides da Cunha once famously said that those who come from Brazil's north-eastern states \"have, before anything else, inner strength.\" When I watched Wagner I saw that inner strength. And what could be more Brazilian than to counter the pain of cultural dislocation than through song?Keen to establish Wagner as some kind of monster, the press threw every Latin American clich\u00e9 at him \u2013 alleging that he scored drugs, got into fights, wanted to marry his first cousin, and lied about his benefits. The X Factor bosses played along to the oversexualised stereotype by surrounding him with female dancers who shocked with their lascivious routines.Wagner's life became a soap opera and his progress in the competition made him, for a few weeks, the biggest celebrity story in the UK. In Brazil, however, Wagner's exploits garnered almost no coverage at all. And this too is a positive sign of the times \u2013 the country has much more important things going on.", "tags": ["The X Factor", "Television", "Brazil", "World news", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Wagner evokes the spirit of modern Brazil | Alex Bellos"},{"date": "2010-11-02T00:02:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "If voters in the US are about to put back the clocks on a presidency dedicated to radical change, it is heartening to see other nations further south doing the opposite. As he reads the projections on the eve of the midterm elections, Barack Obama must envy the ovation at the polls given to Dilma Rousseff, President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva's handpicked successor. Brazil's first woman president won after a tough and, at times, ugly campaign, in which she was accused of being anti-Christian, for wanting to legalise abortion, and a terrorist, for resisting a military dictatorship which jailed and tortured her. Ms Rousseff was made of sterner stuff, and her election is first and foremost a sign that Brazil wants \"Lulismo\" to continue through her.Inevitably, she will disappoint. After two terms, Lula has the status of a divine entity at home. A born negotiator who presided over an economic boom, Lula pulled more than 20\u00a0million Brazilians out of extreme poverty while 30 million joined the middle class. Per capita income grew by just under a fifth from 2002 to 2010 and unemployment reduced to a record low. It was change that Brazilians could feel.Ms Rousseff comes to power in different circumstances and with very different skills. She is a no-nonsense technocrat with a quick temper. She had to check her natural anger with the Jeremy Paxman of Brazil when an electronic clock malfunctioned during a live television debate. Perhaps that was why she was kept away from the foreign press during her campaign. While the managerial issues of her presidency will present her with no difficulty, the politics of it might. Flattering and cajoling is not her strong suit, although she arrives in power with majorities in both upper and lower houses.The economic boom that Brazil has enjoyed also presents different challenges. It is set to be the world's fifth largest economy by the time it hosts the Olympic Games in 2016, and will not be immune to growing pains. Not unlike Russia, another member of the \"Bric\" countries, its export boom comes from primary products such as iron ore, crude oil, soya beans and wood pulp. China, Brazil's largest trading partner, is hoovering it all up. But exports in cars, shoes or textiles are a different matter. Like Russia, Brazil faces deindustrialisation if it fails to compete as a manufacturer. But for that it needs to tackle the more intractable problems \u2013 like salaries, pensions, the tax system, and public debt \u2013 which Lula showed little desire to reform.Ms Rousseff has her work cut out, and may face a shorter honeymoon than her creator enjoyed. The important thing is that the vision of a nation that pulls millions from poverty as its economy grows is kept alive.", "tags": ["Dilma Rousseff", "Brazil", "World news"], "title": "Brazil: Hard act to follow"},{"date": "2010-11-01T02:00:20Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Like the rally led by Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert of Comedy Central that brought hundreds of thousands of people into the streets of Washington, DC on Saturday, Brazil's election on Sunday was a contest of \"Restore Sanity\" versus \"Keep Fear Alive\" \u2013 but with the fate of millions of Brazilians seriously at stake.Dilma Rousseff of the governing Workers' party coasted to victory against the opposition candidate Jos\u00e9 Serra, with a comfortable margin of 56 to 44%. It had been a bitter and ugly campaign, marked by allegations of corruption and malfeasance on both sides, ending with Serra's wife calling Dilma a \"baby-killer.\"Religious groups and leaders mobilised for the Serra campaign and accused Dilma of wanting to legalise abortion, ban religious symbols, being \"anti-Christian\", and a \"terrorist\" for her resistance to the military dictatorship during the late 1960s. The whole campaign was all too reminiscent of Republican strategies in the United States, going back to the rise of the religious right in the 1980s, through the \"Swift Boat\" politics and Karl Rove's \"Weapons of Mass Distraction\" of recent years. Serra even had a rightwing foreign policy strategy that prompted one critic to label him \"Serra Palin\". His campaign threatened to alienate Brazil from most of its neighbours by accusing the Bolivian government of being \"complicit\" in drug trafficking and Venezuela of \"sheltering\" the Farc (the main guerrilla group) in Colombia.He attacked outgoing President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva for his refusal \u2013 along with most of the rest of South America \u2013 to recognise the government of Honduras. The Honduran government was \"elected\" following a military coup last year, under conditions of censorship and human rights abuses such that only the United States and a handful of mostly rightwing allies recognised it as \"free and fair\".But in the end, sanity triumphed over fear, as voters proved to have been more convinced by the substantial improvements in their well-being during the Lula years than anything Serra had to offer.It is perhaps not surprising that Serra, an economist, would try to find a way to avoid the most important economic issues that affect the lives of the majority of Brazilians. The economy has performed much better during the Lula years than during the eight years of rule by Serra's Social Democratic party (PSDB): per capita income grew by 23% from 2002 to 2010, as opposed to just 3.5% for 1994 to 2002. Measured unemployment is now at a record low of 6.2%.Perhaps even more importantly, the majority of Brazilians enjoyed substantial gains: the minimum wage, adjusted for inflation, grew by about 65% during Lula's presidency. This is more than three times the increase during the prior eight years (that is, the presidency of Fernando Henrique Cardoso, of Serra's party). This affects not only minimum-wage workers, but tens of millions of others whose income is tied to the minimum wage. In addition, the government has expanded the Bolsa Familia programme, which provides small cash grants to poor families on condition of school attendance and health immunisation compliance. The programme has been successful in reducing illiteracy, and now reaches about 13m families. More than 19 million people have been shifted across the poverty line since 2003. And a new scheme of subsidies for home ownership has benefitted hundreds of thousands of families, with millions likely to take part, as it expands.Although the brand of Republican campaign strategy borrowed by Serra was effective for most of the last four decades in the United States, it hasn't performed all that well as an export. The Brazilian electorate tired quickly of the mudslinging; and swing voters wanted to know what Serra would do for them that would be better than what the Workers' party had done. When he couldn't tell them, he lost their votes.On the down side, the negative campaigning prevented the election campaign generally from addressing some of the vital issues of Brazil's future. Brazil's financial elite, which dominates the central bank, has an influence on economic policy that is at least as bad \u2013 and as powerful \u2013 as that of Wall Street in the United States. This is one reason why Brazil, even under Lula, has had, for many years, the highest or near-highest real interest rates in the world. Brazil's growth performance has still not been on a par with the other \"Bric\" countries (Russia, India, China), and the country will have to move away from some of the neoliberal policies of previous governments in order to achieve its potential.Capital formation during the Lula years was not much different from during the Cardoso years, and was relatively low compared to many developing countries. Public investment was even lower, although it has recently begun to accelerate. The country will need a development strategy, and one that establishes new patterns of investment and consumption to advance the interests of the majority of Brazilians \u2013 some 50 million of whom remain in poverty.The election has enormous implications for the western hemisphere, where the Obama State Department has continued, with barely a stutter, the Bush administration's strategy of \"rollback\" against the unprecedented independence that the left governments of South America have won over the last decade. A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC foreign policy establishment.It also has implications for the rest of the world. In May, Brazil and Turkey broke new ground in the world of international diplomacy, by negotiating a nuclear fuel swap arrangement for Iran, in an attempt to resolve the standoff over Iran's nuclear programme. The State Department was probably more upset about this than anything that Brazil had done in the region, including Lula's strong and consistent support for the government of President Hugo Chav\u00e9z in Venezuela. Serra, for his part, had attacked the Iran deal during his campaign.Outside of Washington, then, Dilma Rousseff's win in this election, consolidating President Lula's achievements, will be greeted as good news.\u2022 This article was amended at 11:30 [EST] on 1 November 2010, where it read \"A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC establishment reactionaries\", to the author's preferred version: \"A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC foreign policy establishment.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Republicans", "US news", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Global development", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "US politics"], "title": "Brazil wins with Dilma Rousseff | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-10-02T23:07:41Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Night was falling on Rio's Ipanema beach. Inside the Londra bar at the upmarket Fasano hotel, waiters were making the final adjustments before throwing open the frosted-glass door to the city's most exclusive nightspot.The bar staff weaved between Sex Pistols-inspired Philippe Starck armchairs shipped in from France. Behind an immaculate bar, stocked with glowing bottles of 12-year-old Glenlivet whisky and buckets of Veuve Clicquot, the cocktail chief showed off his latest creation \u2013 a Martini bloody mary topped with scarlet foam.\"This is a 'sceney' place: a place to see and be seen,\" said Paula Bezerra de Mello, head of PR at what is generally thought to be Rio's most sophisticated hotel. It was, she said, part of the \"new luxury\" of the Lula era.As a former trade unionist, Brazil's hugely popular president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, is best known for helping his country's poor during an eight-year reign that is entering its final moments. According to the government, more than 20 million Brazilians have been hauled out of poverty since Lula came to power. But the rich have not done badly either.Night after night Londra \u2013 \"London\" \u2013 is packed with foreign celebrities and the great and good of Rio's high society, who come together to savour some of the most expensive cocktails in town. They dance until gone 3am and enjoy the charms of a place that many see as a key symbol of the \"new Brazil\": a dynamic nation of talented designers, successful international jet-setters and, of course, beautiful people.With the economy once again on the move and the Olympics and World Cup on the way, there is a certain something in the Rio air right now; a swagger that can be felt not only in Ipanema's luxurious nightspots, but also in the city's impoverished slums \u2013 favelas \u2013 and remote Amazonian towns where shopping malls and cinemas are sprouting from the ground with growing pace.\"There is a greater excitement, an optimism,\" said Rog\u00e9rio Fasano, Brazil's most revered hotelier and restaurateur, who studied film-making in London and conceived Londra as an Italian-tinged homage to his former home. \"I feel that people are seeing Brazil in a different way \u2013 not just in terms of tourism, but in terms of business,\" he said.Many, though not all, attribute this upbeat mood and palpable self-confidence to one man: Lula. According to a poll released on Wednesday, Lula will leave office after two terms with an approval rating of an astronomical 81%.Today the curtains will begin to go down on the \"era Lula\". Unless the presidential race is forced into a second round, Brazilians will discover who will pick up where Lula left off.If polls are to be believed, Lula's successor will be Dilma Rousseff, a former student rebel who rose to be Lula's chief of staff after spending three years in jail under the former military dictatorship. She has a reputation as a respected enforcer entrusted to lead the soon-to-be-ex-president's gigantic economic growth programme, pumping billions into social programmes and infrastructure works.The new president officially takes over on 1 January, 2011. But between now and then historians will pore over one central question: how did Brazil's first working-class leader achieve such a startlingly vibrant legacy?For his Workers' party activists and other Lula allies, the answer remains simple. \"I am 68 years old and I can tell you that Lula was a president who changed the history of Brazil for the poor and humble,\" said Benedita da Silva, a Rio politician who was the first African-Brazilian woman elected to the country's Senate. She briefly served as Lula's social development minister before being caught up in a bribery scandal.Few understand the transformations that Brazil has undergone under Lula better than one of the president's namesakes, a woman who was raised in Chapeu-Mangueira, a Copacabana favela around 10 minutes' drive from Londra, and who has witnessed up close the changes in Brazil's most deprived corners.\"[As a child] I didn't have water. I didn't have electricity. I didn't have a comfortable brick home. Today, these projects are arriving in the communities,\" she said on Thursday during a campaigning event in Nova Igua\u00e7u, an impoverished town in the rundown suburbs of Rio de Janeiro.\"I know what it means to go hungry. I know what it means to live below the poverty line; to not have water, or electricity, or a school for your child; to not be able to get a job because you have no education or because you live in the favela and no one will give you a job because they are scared.\"It was early afternoon and the veteran Workers' party politician \u2013 who claims to be a particular fan of President Lula's homemade soup \u2013 was busy hunting for votes in a bid to be elected to the Brazilian Congress.\"We haven't come here to speak badly about [other politicians]. We have come to show the work that Lula has done,\" she told the largely supportive crowds through a crackly PA system.\"People may not like it, but it is the truth. In the history of our country, Lula has been a great president.\"Around her the Workers' party activists brandished red-and-white flags that were emblazoned with the slogan: \"She's like Lula \u2013 she has the soul of the people.\"Valdinei Medina, a 29-year-old community leader in the slum where Benedita da Silva was born, was nine when Lula appeared at Chapeu Mangueira shantytown high above Copacabana beach. \"He stood right over there under the jackfruit tree,\" he beamed. \"I have a photo of it in the association.\"The year was 1989 and Lula, a former shoeshine boy and fiery union leader, had come to this hillside favela as he made his first bid to become Brazilian president.\"People thought: 'Wow! A presidential candidate has come to the slum!'\" remembered Medina, a keen Lula supporter. \"Back then the slum was complicated. It was something rare. It went down [in our] history.\"Lula lost that year and was not elected president until 2002. But millions of impoverished Brazilians, among them many of Chapeu Mangueira's 3,000-odd residents, are certain it was worth the wait.\"It's like Obama said, 'He's the man',\" said Medina, just before the start of Brazil's final presidential debate. \"Economically things have changed a lot. Before people didn't have phones at home or mobile phones, cars and motorbikes. Today in any favela you go to, the poor man can get these things, can get loans and this is down to Lula, without doubt.\"When Lula took over it was as if the country was coming out of a war. And today things have stabilised. We are no longer known as the country of football and beautiful women. We are known as country that is economically strong.\"Lula's support is not universal. Many believe Lula's success, and the country's growing prosperity, owes more to the commodities boom than to any personal merit and warn that a growing government deficit threatens to cause a major headache in coming years. Others attribute Brazil's recent boom to Lula's predecessor, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, who helped stabilise the country's erratic economy in the early 1990s and, perhaps understandably, feels somewhat aggrieved at the lack of recognition.\"I did the reforms. Lula surfed the wave,\" Cardoso told the Financial Times recently.But no one can argue with those popularity figures. Back in Londra, Mello was celebrating her country's new financial and cultural renaissance \u2013 it is one of the BRIC nations, Brazil, Russia, India and China, which are in the forefront of new economic development \u2013 and pondering the outcome of the election: \"Right now, Lula could elect this [sachet of] sugar if he wanted,\" she said, reaching out for the sugar bowl. \"That is how much charisma and power he has.\"Everybody referred to Brazil as a sleeping giant, and I think what people are realising now is that we are awake,\" she explained in immaculate American English. \"[Being labelled a] BRIC was a significant positioning \u2026 [for people] to realise that there were these four incredibly powerful potential markets. We've always had 'it', and of course the Olympics and the World Cup reiterated that fact,\" she said. \"Now it is official.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Lula's Brazil: glitzy, rich, dynamic"},{"date": "2010-11-30T14:06:18Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When Pel\u00e9 became an international star at the 1958 World Cup, he immediately became a powerful symbol for Brazil. Black and aged only 17, he played football with a smile on his face \u2013 a wonderful metaphor for a young, racially mixed and culturally vibrant country.Back then Brazil was a country on the rise. Its new capital, Bras\u00edlia, was being built at a frenetic pace and President Juscelino Kubitschek was promising \"50 years progress in five.\"In 2010, the most famous Brazilian in Britain is Wagner Fiuza-Carrilho, a 54-year-old bleached blond former karate teacher and losing X Factor contestant. He too is a perfect ambassador for his homeland.Brazil in 2010 is again a country on the rise. It's now the world's eighth largest economy, with increasing diplomatic clout and will host the World Cup in 2014 and the Olympics in 2016.Pel\u00e9 was synonymous with being the best in the world. Wagner, on the other hand, was the least talented singer on this year's X Factor.And that's my point. As Brazil has changed over the last half century so has its sense of self-esteem. Today it is a much more confident nation. It doesn't need to produce winners to feel good about itself the way that it needed to before. As a culture it has so much to feel proud about. Including \u2013 if not, especially \u2013 Wagner.When I first saw Wagner I was captivated by him because I saw so many of the qualities that I love about Brazil and Brazilians. It struck me as offensive and wrong to describe him as an oddball or wacky. Even though much was made of the fact that people only voted for him as a protest vote against Simon Cowell, I think he won over many viewers with his humility, charm and humanity. We weren't laughing at him, we were laughing with him. The public was bear-hugging, not bear-baiting.I lived in Rio for five years. One of the most noticeable aspects of living there is how un-ageist it is \u2013 young children are welcomed wherever you go, and equally no one would think twice if you went to a samba club with your grandparents. Age doesn't seem to define you in the way that it does in the UK. There is nothing more natural than a 54-year-old wanting to take part in a talent show aimed at people less than half his age.Likewise the informality between generations is reflected in more communal behaviour generally. Carnival is a spectacle where everyone who attends takes part. The transformative process of plucking the boy or girl next door and making them sing and dance on a stage was happening on the streets of Rio long before it was in ITV studios.Wagner's personal story is also deeply evocative of modern Brazil. He was born in the north-eastern state of Para\u00edba but moved as a child to Rio de Janeiro. There is a social stigma in being from Para\u00edba, since it is one of the most economically backward states, and Wagner would have felt like an outsider in his own country. In fact, when I saw Wagner berated by Cheryl Cole for allegedly making disparaging comments about her upbringing, it reminded me of the patronising way the Rio rich often reprimand their maids or porters, often from states like Para\u00edba.Wagner's dignified response to Cheryl seemed to completely throw her. He was cordial, modest and affectionate. That's the Brazilian way.The writer Euclides da Cunha once famously said that those who come from Brazil's north-eastern states \"have, before anything else, inner strength.\" When I watched Wagner I saw that inner strength. And what could be more Brazilian than to counter the pain of cultural dislocation than through song?Keen to establish Wagner as some kind of monster, the press threw every Latin American clich\u00e9 at him \u2013 alleging that he scored drugs, got into fights, wanted to marry his first cousin, and lied about his benefits. The X Factor bosses played along to the oversexualised stereotype by surrounding him with female dancers who shocked with their lascivious routines.Wagner's life became a soap opera and his progress in the competition made him, for a few weeks, the biggest celebrity story in the UK. In Brazil, however, Wagner's exploits garnered almost no coverage at all. And this too is a positive sign of the times \u2013 the country has much more important things going on.", "tags": ["The X Factor", "Television", "Brazil", "World news", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Wagner evokes the spirit of modern Brazil | Alex Bellos"},{"date": "2010-11-12T09:35:38Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I wrote recently about worrying threats to press freedom in Brazil. Here's another example. A paper is facing closure after being ordered by a court to pay $353,000 (\u00a3220,000) for \"moral damages\" to an former mayor.The Jornal de Londrina, in Paran\u00e1 state, has petitioned the supreme court to suspend the ruling.In 1994, the paper published reports accusing the then mayor of Sertan\u00f3polis of improper administration. The mayor was later convicted on several counts.Even so, a Paran\u00e1 state court has ruled that the newspaper must pay \"moral damages\" because its reports were \"published prematurely.\"Source: Knight Centre In Portuguese: Supremo Tribunal Federal", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil paper must pay 'moral damages'"},{"date": "2010-11-02T00:02:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "If voters in the US are about to put back the clocks on a presidency dedicated to radical change, it is heartening to see other nations further south doing the opposite. As he reads the projections on the eve of the midterm elections, Barack Obama must envy the ovation at the polls given to Dilma Rousseff, President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva's handpicked successor. Brazil's first woman president won after a tough and, at times, ugly campaign, in which she was accused of being anti-Christian, for wanting to legalise abortion, and a terrorist, for resisting a military dictatorship which jailed and tortured her. Ms Rousseff was made of sterner stuff, and her election is first and foremost a sign that Brazil wants \"Lulismo\" to continue through her.Inevitably, she will disappoint. After two terms, Lula has the status of a divine entity at home. A born negotiator who presided over an economic boom, Lula pulled more than 20\u00a0million Brazilians out of extreme poverty while 30 million joined the middle class. Per capita income grew by just under a fifth from 2002 to 2010 and unemployment reduced to a record low. It was change that Brazilians could feel.Ms Rousseff comes to power in different circumstances and with very different skills. She is a no-nonsense technocrat with a quick temper. She had to check her natural anger with the Jeremy Paxman of Brazil when an electronic clock malfunctioned during a live television debate. Perhaps that was why she was kept away from the foreign press during her campaign. While the managerial issues of her presidency will present her with no difficulty, the politics of it might. Flattering and cajoling is not her strong suit, although she arrives in power with majorities in both upper and lower houses.The economic boom that Brazil has enjoyed also presents different challenges. It is set to be the world's fifth largest economy by the time it hosts the Olympic Games in 2016, and will not be immune to growing pains. Not unlike Russia, another member of the \"Bric\" countries, its export boom comes from primary products such as iron ore, crude oil, soya beans and wood pulp. China, Brazil's largest trading partner, is hoovering it all up. But exports in cars, shoes or textiles are a different matter. Like Russia, Brazil faces deindustrialisation if it fails to compete as a manufacturer. But for that it needs to tackle the more intractable problems \u2013 like salaries, pensions, the tax system, and public debt \u2013 which Lula showed little desire to reform.Ms Rousseff has her work cut out, and may face a shorter honeymoon than her creator enjoyed. The important thing is that the vision of a nation that pulls millions from poverty as its economy grows is kept alive.", "tags": ["Dilma Rousseff", "Brazil", "World news"], "title": "Brazil: Hard act to follow"},{"date": "2010-11-01T02:00:20Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Like the rally led by Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert of Comedy Central that brought hundreds of thousands of people into the streets of Washington, DC on Saturday, Brazil's election on Sunday was a contest of \"Restore Sanity\" versus \"Keep Fear Alive\" \u2013 but with the fate of millions of Brazilians seriously at stake.Dilma Rousseff of the governing Workers' party coasted to victory against the opposition candidate Jos\u00e9 Serra, with a comfortable margin of 56 to 44%. It had been a bitter and ugly campaign, marked by allegations of corruption and malfeasance on both sides, ending with Serra's wife calling Dilma a \"baby-killer.\"Religious groups and leaders mobilised for the Serra campaign and accused Dilma of wanting to legalise abortion, ban religious symbols, being \"anti-Christian\", and a \"terrorist\" for her resistance to the military dictatorship during the late 1960s. The whole campaign was all too reminiscent of Republican strategies in the United States, going back to the rise of the religious right in the 1980s, through the \"Swift Boat\" politics and Karl Rove's \"Weapons of Mass Distraction\" of recent years. Serra even had a rightwing foreign policy strategy that prompted one critic to label him \"Serra Palin\". His campaign threatened to alienate Brazil from most of its neighbours by accusing the Bolivian government of being \"complicit\" in drug trafficking and Venezuela of \"sheltering\" the Farc (the main guerrilla group) in Colombia.He attacked outgoing President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva for his refusal \u2013 along with most of the rest of South America \u2013 to recognise the government of Honduras. The Honduran government was \"elected\" following a military coup last year, under conditions of censorship and human rights abuses such that only the United States and a handful of mostly rightwing allies recognised it as \"free and fair\".But in the end, sanity triumphed over fear, as voters proved to have been more convinced by the substantial improvements in their well-being during the Lula years than anything Serra had to offer.It is perhaps not surprising that Serra, an economist, would try to find a way to avoid the most important economic issues that affect the lives of the majority of Brazilians. The economy has performed much better during the Lula years than during the eight years of rule by Serra's Social Democratic party (PSDB): per capita income grew by 23% from 2002 to 2010, as opposed to just 3.5% for 1994 to 2002. Measured unemployment is now at a record low of 6.2%.Perhaps even more importantly, the majority of Brazilians enjoyed substantial gains: the minimum wage, adjusted for inflation, grew by about 65% during Lula's presidency. This is more than three times the increase during the prior eight years (that is, the presidency of Fernando Henrique Cardoso, of Serra's party). This affects not only minimum-wage workers, but tens of millions of others whose income is tied to the minimum wage. In addition, the government has expanded the Bolsa Familia programme, which provides small cash grants to poor families on condition of school attendance and health immunisation compliance. The programme has been successful in reducing illiteracy, and now reaches about 13m families. More than 19 million people have been shifted across the poverty line since 2003. And a new scheme of subsidies for home ownership has benefitted hundreds of thousands of families, with millions likely to take part, as it expands.Although the brand of Republican campaign strategy borrowed by Serra was effective for most of the last four decades in the United States, it hasn't performed all that well as an export. The Brazilian electorate tired quickly of the mudslinging; and swing voters wanted to know what Serra would do for them that would be better than what the Workers' party had done. When he couldn't tell them, he lost their votes.On the down side, the negative campaigning prevented the election campaign generally from addressing some of the vital issues of Brazil's future. Brazil's financial elite, which dominates the central bank, has an influence on economic policy that is at least as bad \u2013 and as powerful \u2013 as that of Wall Street in the United States. This is one reason why Brazil, even under Lula, has had, for many years, the highest or near-highest real interest rates in the world. Brazil's growth performance has still not been on a par with the other \"Bric\" countries (Russia, India, China), and the country will have to move away from some of the neoliberal policies of previous governments in order to achieve its potential.Capital formation during the Lula years was not much different from during the Cardoso years, and was relatively low compared to many developing countries. Public investment was even lower, although it has recently begun to accelerate. The country will need a development strategy, and one that establishes new patterns of investment and consumption to advance the interests of the majority of Brazilians \u2013 some 50 million of whom remain in poverty.The election has enormous implications for the western hemisphere, where the Obama State Department has continued, with barely a stutter, the Bush administration's strategy of \"rollback\" against the unprecedented independence that the left governments of South America have won over the last decade. A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC foreign policy establishment.It also has implications for the rest of the world. In May, Brazil and Turkey broke new ground in the world of international diplomacy, by negotiating a nuclear fuel swap arrangement for Iran, in an attempt to resolve the standoff over Iran's nuclear programme. The State Department was probably more upset about this than anything that Brazil had done in the region, including Lula's strong and consistent support for the government of President Hugo Chav\u00e9z in Venezuela. Serra, for his part, had attacked the Iran deal during his campaign.Outside of Washington, then, Dilma Rousseff's win in this election, consolidating President Lula's achievements, will be greeted as good news.\u2022 This article was amended at 11:30 [EST] on 1 November 2010, where it read \"A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC establishment reactionaries\", to the author's preferred version: \"A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC foreign policy establishment.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Republicans", "US news", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Global development", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "US politics"], "title": "Brazil wins with Dilma Rousseff | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-10-02T23:07:41Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Night was falling on Rio's Ipanema beach. Inside the Londra bar at the upmarket Fasano hotel, waiters were making the final adjustments before throwing open the frosted-glass door to the city's most exclusive nightspot.The bar staff weaved between Sex Pistols-inspired Philippe Starck armchairs shipped in from France. Behind an immaculate bar, stocked with glowing bottles of 12-year-old Glenlivet whisky and buckets of Veuve Clicquot, the cocktail chief showed off his latest creation \u2013 a Martini bloody mary topped with scarlet foam.\"This is a 'sceney' place: a place to see and be seen,\" said Paula Bezerra de Mello, head of PR at what is generally thought to be Rio's most sophisticated hotel. It was, she said, part of the \"new luxury\" of the Lula era.As a former trade unionist, Brazil's hugely popular president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, is best known for helping his country's poor during an eight-year reign that is entering its final moments. According to the government, more than 20 million Brazilians have been hauled out of poverty since Lula came to power. But the rich have not done badly either.Night after night Londra \u2013 \"London\" \u2013 is packed with foreign celebrities and the great and good of Rio's high society, who come together to savour some of the most expensive cocktails in town. They dance until gone 3am and enjoy the charms of a place that many see as a key symbol of the \"new Brazil\": a dynamic nation of talented designers, successful international jet-setters and, of course, beautiful people.With the economy once again on the move and the Olympics and World Cup on the way, there is a certain something in the Rio air right now; a swagger that can be felt not only in Ipanema's luxurious nightspots, but also in the city's impoverished slums \u2013 favelas \u2013 and remote Amazonian towns where shopping malls and cinemas are sprouting from the ground with growing pace.\"There is a greater excitement, an optimism,\" said Rog\u00e9rio Fasano, Brazil's most revered hotelier and restaurateur, who studied film-making in London and conceived Londra as an Italian-tinged homage to his former home. \"I feel that people are seeing Brazil in a different way \u2013 not just in terms of tourism, but in terms of business,\" he said.Many, though not all, attribute this upbeat mood and palpable self-confidence to one man: Lula. According to a poll released on Wednesday, Lula will leave office after two terms with an approval rating of an astronomical 81%.Today the curtains will begin to go down on the \"era Lula\". Unless the presidential race is forced into a second round, Brazilians will discover who will pick up where Lula left off.If polls are to be believed, Lula's successor will be Dilma Rousseff, a former student rebel who rose to be Lula's chief of staff after spending three years in jail under the former military dictatorship. She has a reputation as a respected enforcer entrusted to lead the soon-to-be-ex-president's gigantic economic growth programme, pumping billions into social programmes and infrastructure works.The new president officially takes over on 1 January, 2011. But between now and then historians will pore over one central question: how did Brazil's first working-class leader achieve such a startlingly vibrant legacy?For his Workers' party activists and other Lula allies, the answer remains simple. \"I am 68 years old and I can tell you that Lula was a president who changed the history of Brazil for the poor and humble,\" said Benedita da Silva, a Rio politician who was the first African-Brazilian woman elected to the country's Senate. She briefly served as Lula's social development minister before being caught up in a bribery scandal.Few understand the transformations that Brazil has undergone under Lula better than one of the president's namesakes, a woman who was raised in Chapeu-Mangueira, a Copacabana favela around 10 minutes' drive from Londra, and who has witnessed up close the changes in Brazil's most deprived corners.\"[As a child] I didn't have water. I didn't have electricity. I didn't have a comfortable brick home. Today, these projects are arriving in the communities,\" she said on Thursday during a campaigning event in Nova Igua\u00e7u, an impoverished town in the rundown suburbs of Rio de Janeiro.\"I know what it means to go hungry. I know what it means to live below the poverty line; to not have water, or electricity, or a school for your child; to not be able to get a job because you have no education or because you live in the favela and no one will give you a job because they are scared.\"It was early afternoon and the veteran Workers' party politician \u2013 who claims to be a particular fan of President Lula's homemade soup \u2013 was busy hunting for votes in a bid to be elected to the Brazilian Congress.\"We haven't come here to speak badly about [other politicians]. We have come to show the work that Lula has done,\" she told the largely supportive crowds through a crackly PA system.\"People may not like it, but it is the truth. In the history of our country, Lula has been a great president.\"Around her the Workers' party activists brandished red-and-white flags that were emblazoned with the slogan: \"She's like Lula \u2013 she has the soul of the people.\"Valdinei Medina, a 29-year-old community leader in the slum where Benedita da Silva was born, was nine when Lula appeared at Chapeu Mangueira shantytown high above Copacabana beach. \"He stood right over there under the jackfruit tree,\" he beamed. \"I have a photo of it in the association.\"The year was 1989 and Lula, a former shoeshine boy and fiery union leader, had come to this hillside favela as he made his first bid to become Brazilian president.\"People thought: 'Wow! A presidential candidate has come to the slum!'\" remembered Medina, a keen Lula supporter. \"Back then the slum was complicated. It was something rare. It went down [in our] history.\"Lula lost that year and was not elected president until 2002. But millions of impoverished Brazilians, among them many of Chapeu Mangueira's 3,000-odd residents, are certain it was worth the wait.\"It's like Obama said, 'He's the man',\" said Medina, just before the start of Brazil's final presidential debate. \"Economically things have changed a lot. Before people didn't have phones at home or mobile phones, cars and motorbikes. Today in any favela you go to, the poor man can get these things, can get loans and this is down to Lula, without doubt.\"When Lula took over it was as if the country was coming out of a war. And today things have stabilised. We are no longer known as the country of football and beautiful women. We are known as country that is economically strong.\"Lula's support is not universal. Many believe Lula's success, and the country's growing prosperity, owes more to the commodities boom than to any personal merit and warn that a growing government deficit threatens to cause a major headache in coming years. Others attribute Brazil's recent boom to Lula's predecessor, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, who helped stabilise the country's erratic economy in the early 1990s and, perhaps understandably, feels somewhat aggrieved at the lack of recognition.\"I did the reforms. Lula surfed the wave,\" Cardoso told the Financial Times recently.But no one can argue with those popularity figures. Back in Londra, Mello was celebrating her country's new financial and cultural renaissance \u2013 it is one of the BRIC nations, Brazil, Russia, India and China, which are in the forefront of new economic development \u2013 and pondering the outcome of the election: \"Right now, Lula could elect this [sachet of] sugar if he wanted,\" she said, reaching out for the sugar bowl. \"That is how much charisma and power he has.\"Everybody referred to Brazil as a sleeping giant, and I think what people are realising now is that we are awake,\" she explained in immaculate American English. \"[Being labelled a] BRIC was a significant positioning \u2026 [for people] to realise that there were these four incredibly powerful potential markets. We've always had 'it', and of course the Olympics and the World Cup reiterated that fact,\" she said. \"Now it is official.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Lula's Brazil: glitzy, rich, dynamic"},{"date": "2010-11-30T14:06:18Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When Pel\u00e9 became an international star at the 1958 World Cup, he immediately became a powerful symbol for Brazil. Black and aged only 17, he played football with a smile on his face \u2013 a wonderful metaphor for a young, racially mixed and culturally vibrant country.Back then Brazil was a country on the rise. Its new capital, Bras\u00edlia, was being built at a frenetic pace and President Juscelino Kubitschek was promising \"50 years progress in five.\"In 2010, the most famous Brazilian in Britain is Wagner Fiuza-Carrilho, a 54-year-old bleached blond former karate teacher and losing X Factor contestant. He too is a perfect ambassador for his homeland.Brazil in 2010 is again a country on the rise. It's now the world's eighth largest economy, with increasing diplomatic clout and will host the World Cup in 2014 and the Olympics in 2016.Pel\u00e9 was synonymous with being the best in the world. Wagner, on the other hand, was the least talented singer on this year's X Factor.And that's my point. As Brazil has changed over the last half century so has its sense of self-esteem. Today it is a much more confident nation. It doesn't need to produce winners to feel good about itself the way that it needed to before. As a culture it has so much to feel proud about. Including \u2013 if not, especially \u2013 Wagner.When I first saw Wagner I was captivated by him because I saw so many of the qualities that I love about Brazil and Brazilians. It struck me as offensive and wrong to describe him as an oddball or wacky. Even though much was made of the fact that people only voted for him as a protest vote against Simon Cowell, I think he won over many viewers with his humility, charm and humanity. We weren't laughing at him, we were laughing with him. The public was bear-hugging, not bear-baiting.I lived in Rio for five years. One of the most noticeable aspects of living there is how un-ageist it is \u2013 young children are welcomed wherever you go, and equally no one would think twice if you went to a samba club with your grandparents. Age doesn't seem to define you in the way that it does in the UK. There is nothing more natural than a 54-year-old wanting to take part in a talent show aimed at people less than half his age.Likewise the informality between generations is reflected in more communal behaviour generally. Carnival is a spectacle where everyone who attends takes part. The transformative process of plucking the boy or girl next door and making them sing and dance on a stage was happening on the streets of Rio long before it was in ITV studios.Wagner's personal story is also deeply evocative of modern Brazil. He was born in the north-eastern state of Para\u00edba but moved as a child to Rio de Janeiro. There is a social stigma in being from Para\u00edba, since it is one of the most economically backward states, and Wagner would have felt like an outsider in his own country. In fact, when I saw Wagner berated by Cheryl Cole for allegedly making disparaging comments about her upbringing, it reminded me of the patronising way the Rio rich often reprimand their maids or porters, often from states like Para\u00edba.Wagner's dignified response to Cheryl seemed to completely throw her. He was cordial, modest and affectionate. That's the Brazilian way.The writer Euclides da Cunha once famously said that those who come from Brazil's north-eastern states \"have, before anything else, inner strength.\" When I watched Wagner I saw that inner strength. And what could be more Brazilian than to counter the pain of cultural dislocation than through song?Keen to establish Wagner as some kind of monster, the press threw every Latin American clich\u00e9 at him \u2013 alleging that he scored drugs, got into fights, wanted to marry his first cousin, and lied about his benefits. The X Factor bosses played along to the oversexualised stereotype by surrounding him with female dancers who shocked with their lascivious routines.Wagner's life became a soap opera and his progress in the competition made him, for a few weeks, the biggest celebrity story in the UK. In Brazil, however, Wagner's exploits garnered almost no coverage at all. And this too is a positive sign of the times \u2013 the country has much more important things going on.", "tags": ["The X Factor", "Television", "Brazil", "World news", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Wagner evokes the spirit of modern Brazil | Alex Bellos"},{"date": "2010-11-12T09:35:38Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I wrote recently about worrying threats to press freedom in Brazil. Here's another example. A paper is facing closure after being ordered by a court to pay $353,000 (\u00a3220,000) for \"moral damages\" to an former mayor.The Jornal de Londrina, in Paran\u00e1 state, has petitioned the supreme court to suspend the ruling.In 1994, the paper published reports accusing the then mayor of Sertan\u00f3polis of improper administration. The mayor was later convicted on several counts.Even so, a Paran\u00e1 state court has ruled that the newspaper must pay \"moral damages\" because its reports were \"published prematurely.\"Source: Knight Centre In Portuguese: Supremo Tribunal Federal", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil paper must pay 'moral damages'"},{"date": "2010-11-02T18:58:58Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "BG Group's Brazilian ventures in the Santos Basin will deliver almost 3bn more barrels of oil than expected, the company said today.BG upgraded its estimates for the Tupi, Iracema, and Guar\u00e1 fields, which it is developing with partners including Brazilian oil group Petrobras, from just over 8bn barrels of oil equivalent, to 10.8bn. The upgrade came after an independent analysis of new data gathered from the fields.Shares in the company were up 3.4%, or 41.5p, to \u00a312.52 on the news, making it one of the top performers in the FTSE 100.The size of the Tupi oil field makes it one of the largest finds of recent decades, and the upgrade alone is equivalent to four Buzzard fields, one of the largest in the North Sea. Analysts said there was potential for more good news from Brazil too.\"I think as you get production history and more details the reserves are going to rise,\" said Peter Hitchens of Panmure Gordon.Oswald Clint at Bernstein Research added that \"discoveries of this magnitude are relatively few in this day and age\".The upgrade alone could be worth as much as \u00a34bn to BG.BG chief executive Frank Chapman said: \"This is a material upgrade to what was already a world-class resources position. Only four years have elapsed from first discovery to first production in a play that is at the centre of BG Group's growth plans over the decade ahead.\"The group also announced third-quarter results boosted by a 43% increase in liquefied natural gas (LNG) earnings. Revenues were $978m (\u00a3610m), up 27% on the previous year.Evolution Securities said that once a $106m tax credit was taken into account, the numbers were in line with consensus.Clint added that BG was \"one of the best positioned\" in terms of the LNG market, adding that the \"upstream [division] wasn't as strong as the market expected\".BG announced at the weekend that it had got the go-ahead for its $15bn project to liquify and ship gas produced from coal deposits. The Queensland Curtis project in Eastern Australia will give the group better access to Asian markets.", "tags": ["BG", "Business", "Oil", "Commodities", "Oil and gas companies", "Energy industry", "Brazil", "World news"], "title": "BG Group upgrades Brazil oil field estimates"},{"date": "2010-11-02T00:02:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "If voters in the US are about to put back the clocks on a presidency dedicated to radical change, it is heartening to see other nations further south doing the opposite. As he reads the projections on the eve of the midterm elections, Barack Obama must envy the ovation at the polls given to Dilma Rousseff, President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva's handpicked successor. Brazil's first woman president won after a tough and, at times, ugly campaign, in which she was accused of being anti-Christian, for wanting to legalise abortion, and a terrorist, for resisting a military dictatorship which jailed and tortured her. Ms Rousseff was made of sterner stuff, and her election is first and foremost a sign that Brazil wants \"Lulismo\" to continue through her.Inevitably, she will disappoint. After two terms, Lula has the status of a divine entity at home. A born negotiator who presided over an economic boom, Lula pulled more than 20\u00a0million Brazilians out of extreme poverty while 30 million joined the middle class. Per capita income grew by just under a fifth from 2002 to 2010 and unemployment reduced to a record low. It was change that Brazilians could feel.Ms Rousseff comes to power in different circumstances and with very different skills. She is a no-nonsense technocrat with a quick temper. She had to check her natural anger with the Jeremy Paxman of Brazil when an electronic clock malfunctioned during a live television debate. Perhaps that was why she was kept away from the foreign press during her campaign. While the managerial issues of her presidency will present her with no difficulty, the politics of it might. Flattering and cajoling is not her strong suit, although she arrives in power with majorities in both upper and lower houses.The economic boom that Brazil has enjoyed also presents different challenges. It is set to be the world's fifth largest economy by the time it hosts the Olympic Games in 2016, and will not be immune to growing pains. Not unlike Russia, another member of the \"Bric\" countries, its export boom comes from primary products such as iron ore, crude oil, soya beans and wood pulp. China, Brazil's largest trading partner, is hoovering it all up. But exports in cars, shoes or textiles are a different matter. Like Russia, Brazil faces deindustrialisation if it fails to compete as a manufacturer. But for that it needs to tackle the more intractable problems \u2013 like salaries, pensions, the tax system, and public debt \u2013 which Lula showed little desire to reform.Ms Rousseff has her work cut out, and may face a shorter honeymoon than her creator enjoyed. The important thing is that the vision of a nation that pulls millions from poverty as its economy grows is kept alive.", "tags": ["Dilma Rousseff", "Brazil", "World news"], "title": "Brazil: Hard act to follow"},{"date": "2010-11-01T02:00:20Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Like the rally led by Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert of Comedy Central that brought hundreds of thousands of people into the streets of Washington, DC on Saturday, Brazil's election on Sunday was a contest of \"Restore Sanity\" versus \"Keep Fear Alive\" \u2013 but with the fate of millions of Brazilians seriously at stake.Dilma Rousseff of the governing Workers' party coasted to victory against the opposition candidate Jos\u00e9 Serra, with a comfortable margin of 56 to 44%. It had been a bitter and ugly campaign, marked by allegations of corruption and malfeasance on both sides, ending with Serra's wife calling Dilma a \"baby-killer.\"Religious groups and leaders mobilised for the Serra campaign and accused Dilma of wanting to legalise abortion, ban religious symbols, being \"anti-Christian\", and a \"terrorist\" for her resistance to the military dictatorship during the late 1960s. The whole campaign was all too reminiscent of Republican strategies in the United States, going back to the rise of the religious right in the 1980s, through the \"Swift Boat\" politics and Karl Rove's \"Weapons of Mass Distraction\" of recent years. Serra even had a rightwing foreign policy strategy that prompted one critic to label him \"Serra Palin\". His campaign threatened to alienate Brazil from most of its neighbours by accusing the Bolivian government of being \"complicit\" in drug trafficking and Venezuela of \"sheltering\" the Farc (the main guerrilla group) in Colombia.He attacked outgoing President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva for his refusal \u2013 along with most of the rest of South America \u2013 to recognise the government of Honduras. The Honduran government was \"elected\" following a military coup last year, under conditions of censorship and human rights abuses such that only the United States and a handful of mostly rightwing allies recognised it as \"free and fair\".But in the end, sanity triumphed over fear, as voters proved to have been more convinced by the substantial improvements in their well-being during the Lula years than anything Serra had to offer.It is perhaps not surprising that Serra, an economist, would try to find a way to avoid the most important economic issues that affect the lives of the majority of Brazilians. The economy has performed much better during the Lula years than during the eight years of rule by Serra's Social Democratic party (PSDB): per capita income grew by 23% from 2002 to 2010, as opposed to just 3.5% for 1994 to 2002. Measured unemployment is now at a record low of 6.2%.Perhaps even more importantly, the majority of Brazilians enjoyed substantial gains: the minimum wage, adjusted for inflation, grew by about 65% during Lula's presidency. This is more than three times the increase during the prior eight years (that is, the presidency of Fernando Henrique Cardoso, of Serra's party). This affects not only minimum-wage workers, but tens of millions of others whose income is tied to the minimum wage. In addition, the government has expanded the Bolsa Familia programme, which provides small cash grants to poor families on condition of school attendance and health immunisation compliance. The programme has been successful in reducing illiteracy, and now reaches about 13m families. More than 19 million people have been shifted across the poverty line since 2003. And a new scheme of subsidies for home ownership has benefitted hundreds of thousands of families, with millions likely to take part, as it expands.Although the brand of Republican campaign strategy borrowed by Serra was effective for most of the last four decades in the United States, it hasn't performed all that well as an export. The Brazilian electorate tired quickly of the mudslinging; and swing voters wanted to know what Serra would do for them that would be better than what the Workers' party had done. When he couldn't tell them, he lost their votes.On the down side, the negative campaigning prevented the election campaign generally from addressing some of the vital issues of Brazil's future. Brazil's financial elite, which dominates the central bank, has an influence on economic policy that is at least as bad \u2013 and as powerful \u2013 as that of Wall Street in the United States. This is one reason why Brazil, even under Lula, has had, for many years, the highest or near-highest real interest rates in the world. Brazil's growth performance has still not been on a par with the other \"Bric\" countries (Russia, India, China), and the country will have to move away from some of the neoliberal policies of previous governments in order to achieve its potential.Capital formation during the Lula years was not much different from during the Cardoso years, and was relatively low compared to many developing countries. Public investment was even lower, although it has recently begun to accelerate. The country will need a development strategy, and one that establishes new patterns of investment and consumption to advance the interests of the majority of Brazilians \u2013 some 50 million of whom remain in poverty.The election has enormous implications for the western hemisphere, where the Obama State Department has continued, with barely a stutter, the Bush administration's strategy of \"rollback\" against the unprecedented independence that the left governments of South America have won over the last decade. A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC foreign policy establishment.It also has implications for the rest of the world. In May, Brazil and Turkey broke new ground in the world of international diplomacy, by negotiating a nuclear fuel swap arrangement for Iran, in an attempt to resolve the standoff over Iran's nuclear programme. The State Department was probably more upset about this than anything that Brazil had done in the region, including Lula's strong and consistent support for the government of President Hugo Chav\u00e9z in Venezuela. Serra, for his part, had attacked the Iran deal during his campaign.Outside of Washington, then, Dilma Rousseff's win in this election, consolidating President Lula's achievements, will be greeted as good news.\u2022 This article was amended at 11:30 [EST] on 1 November 2010, where it read \"A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC establishment reactionaries\", to the author's preferred version: \"A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC foreign policy establishment.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Republicans", "US news", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Global development", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "US politics"], "title": "Brazil wins with Dilma Rousseff | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-10-02T23:07:41Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Night was falling on Rio's Ipanema beach. Inside the Londra bar at the upmarket Fasano hotel, waiters were making the final adjustments before throwing open the frosted-glass door to the city's most exclusive nightspot.The bar staff weaved between Sex Pistols-inspired Philippe Starck armchairs shipped in from France. Behind an immaculate bar, stocked with glowing bottles of 12-year-old Glenlivet whisky and buckets of Veuve Clicquot, the cocktail chief showed off his latest creation \u2013 a Martini bloody mary topped with scarlet foam.\"This is a 'sceney' place: a place to see and be seen,\" said Paula Bezerra de Mello, head of PR at what is generally thought to be Rio's most sophisticated hotel. It was, she said, part of the \"new luxury\" of the Lula era.As a former trade unionist, Brazil's hugely popular president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, is best known for helping his country's poor during an eight-year reign that is entering its final moments. According to the government, more than 20 million Brazilians have been hauled out of poverty since Lula came to power. But the rich have not done badly either.Night after night Londra \u2013 \"London\" \u2013 is packed with foreign celebrities and the great and good of Rio's high society, who come together to savour some of the most expensive cocktails in town. They dance until gone 3am and enjoy the charms of a place that many see as a key symbol of the \"new Brazil\": a dynamic nation of talented designers, successful international jet-setters and, of course, beautiful people.With the economy once again on the move and the Olympics and World Cup on the way, there is a certain something in the Rio air right now; a swagger that can be felt not only in Ipanema's luxurious nightspots, but also in the city's impoverished slums \u2013 favelas \u2013 and remote Amazonian towns where shopping malls and cinemas are sprouting from the ground with growing pace.\"There is a greater excitement, an optimism,\" said Rog\u00e9rio Fasano, Brazil's most revered hotelier and restaurateur, who studied film-making in London and conceived Londra as an Italian-tinged homage to his former home. \"I feel that people are seeing Brazil in a different way \u2013 not just in terms of tourism, but in terms of business,\" he said.Many, though not all, attribute this upbeat mood and palpable self-confidence to one man: Lula. According to a poll released on Wednesday, Lula will leave office after two terms with an approval rating of an astronomical 81%.Today the curtains will begin to go down on the \"era Lula\". Unless the presidential race is forced into a second round, Brazilians will discover who will pick up where Lula left off.If polls are to be believed, Lula's successor will be Dilma Rousseff, a former student rebel who rose to be Lula's chief of staff after spending three years in jail under the former military dictatorship. She has a reputation as a respected enforcer entrusted to lead the soon-to-be-ex-president's gigantic economic growth programme, pumping billions into social programmes and infrastructure works.The new president officially takes over on 1 January, 2011. But between now and then historians will pore over one central question: how did Brazil's first working-class leader achieve such a startlingly vibrant legacy?For his Workers' party activists and other Lula allies, the answer remains simple. \"I am 68 years old and I can tell you that Lula was a president who changed the history of Brazil for the poor and humble,\" said Benedita da Silva, a Rio politician who was the first African-Brazilian woman elected to the country's Senate. She briefly served as Lula's social development minister before being caught up in a bribery scandal.Few understand the transformations that Brazil has undergone under Lula better than one of the president's namesakes, a woman who was raised in Chapeu-Mangueira, a Copacabana favela around 10 minutes' drive from Londra, and who has witnessed up close the changes in Brazil's most deprived corners.\"[As a child] I didn't have water. I didn't have electricity. I didn't have a comfortable brick home. Today, these projects are arriving in the communities,\" she said on Thursday during a campaigning event in Nova Igua\u00e7u, an impoverished town in the rundown suburbs of Rio de Janeiro.\"I know what it means to go hungry. I know what it means to live below the poverty line; to not have water, or electricity, or a school for your child; to not be able to get a job because you have no education or because you live in the favela and no one will give you a job because they are scared.\"It was early afternoon and the veteran Workers' party politician \u2013 who claims to be a particular fan of President Lula's homemade soup \u2013 was busy hunting for votes in a bid to be elected to the Brazilian Congress.\"We haven't come here to speak badly about [other politicians]. We have come to show the work that Lula has done,\" she told the largely supportive crowds through a crackly PA system.\"People may not like it, but it is the truth. In the history of our country, Lula has been a great president.\"Around her the Workers' party activists brandished red-and-white flags that were emblazoned with the slogan: \"She's like Lula \u2013 she has the soul of the people.\"Valdinei Medina, a 29-year-old community leader in the slum where Benedita da Silva was born, was nine when Lula appeared at Chapeu Mangueira shantytown high above Copacabana beach. \"He stood right over there under the jackfruit tree,\" he beamed. \"I have a photo of it in the association.\"The year was 1989 and Lula, a former shoeshine boy and fiery union leader, had come to this hillside favela as he made his first bid to become Brazilian president.\"People thought: 'Wow! A presidential candidate has come to the slum!'\" remembered Medina, a keen Lula supporter. \"Back then the slum was complicated. It was something rare. It went down [in our] history.\"Lula lost that year and was not elected president until 2002. But millions of impoverished Brazilians, among them many of Chapeu Mangueira's 3,000-odd residents, are certain it was worth the wait.\"It's like Obama said, 'He's the man',\" said Medina, just before the start of Brazil's final presidential debate. \"Economically things have changed a lot. Before people didn't have phones at home or mobile phones, cars and motorbikes. Today in any favela you go to, the poor man can get these things, can get loans and this is down to Lula, without doubt.\"When Lula took over it was as if the country was coming out of a war. And today things have stabilised. We are no longer known as the country of football and beautiful women. We are known as country that is economically strong.\"Lula's support is not universal. Many believe Lula's success, and the country's growing prosperity, owes more to the commodities boom than to any personal merit and warn that a growing government deficit threatens to cause a major headache in coming years. Others attribute Brazil's recent boom to Lula's predecessor, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, who helped stabilise the country's erratic economy in the early 1990s and, perhaps understandably, feels somewhat aggrieved at the lack of recognition.\"I did the reforms. Lula surfed the wave,\" Cardoso told the Financial Times recently.But no one can argue with those popularity figures. Back in Londra, Mello was celebrating her country's new financial and cultural renaissance \u2013 it is one of the BRIC nations, Brazil, Russia, India and China, which are in the forefront of new economic development \u2013 and pondering the outcome of the election: \"Right now, Lula could elect this [sachet of] sugar if he wanted,\" she said, reaching out for the sugar bowl. \"That is how much charisma and power he has.\"Everybody referred to Brazil as a sleeping giant, and I think what people are realising now is that we are awake,\" she explained in immaculate American English. \"[Being labelled a] BRIC was a significant positioning \u2026 [for people] to realise that there were these four incredibly powerful potential markets. We've always had 'it', and of course the Olympics and the World Cup reiterated that fact,\" she said. \"Now it is official.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Lula's Brazil: glitzy, rich, dynamic"},{"date": "2010-11-30T14:06:18Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When Pel\u00e9 became an international star at the 1958 World Cup, he immediately became a powerful symbol for Brazil. Black and aged only 17, he played football with a smile on his face \u2013 a wonderful metaphor for a young, racially mixed and culturally vibrant country.Back then Brazil was a country on the rise. Its new capital, Bras\u00edlia, was being built at a frenetic pace and President Juscelino Kubitschek was promising \"50 years progress in five.\"In 2010, the most famous Brazilian in Britain is Wagner Fiuza-Carrilho, a 54-year-old bleached blond former karate teacher and losing X Factor contestant. He too is a perfect ambassador for his homeland.Brazil in 2010 is again a country on the rise. It's now the world's eighth largest economy, with increasing diplomatic clout and will host the World Cup in 2014 and the Olympics in 2016.Pel\u00e9 was synonymous with being the best in the world. Wagner, on the other hand, was the least talented singer on this year's X Factor.And that's my point. As Brazil has changed over the last half century so has its sense of self-esteem. Today it is a much more confident nation. It doesn't need to produce winners to feel good about itself the way that it needed to before. As a culture it has so much to feel proud about. Including \u2013 if not, especially \u2013 Wagner.When I first saw Wagner I was captivated by him because I saw so many of the qualities that I love about Brazil and Brazilians. It struck me as offensive and wrong to describe him as an oddball or wacky. Even though much was made of the fact that people only voted for him as a protest vote against Simon Cowell, I think he won over many viewers with his humility, charm and humanity. We weren't laughing at him, we were laughing with him. The public was bear-hugging, not bear-baiting.I lived in Rio for five years. One of the most noticeable aspects of living there is how un-ageist it is \u2013 young children are welcomed wherever you go, and equally no one would think twice if you went to a samba club with your grandparents. Age doesn't seem to define you in the way that it does in the UK. There is nothing more natural than a 54-year-old wanting to take part in a talent show aimed at people less than half his age.Likewise the informality between generations is reflected in more communal behaviour generally. Carnival is a spectacle where everyone who attends takes part. The transformative process of plucking the boy or girl next door and making them sing and dance on a stage was happening on the streets of Rio long before it was in ITV studios.Wagner's personal story is also deeply evocative of modern Brazil. He was born in the north-eastern state of Para\u00edba but moved as a child to Rio de Janeiro. There is a social stigma in being from Para\u00edba, since it is one of the most economically backward states, and Wagner would have felt like an outsider in his own country. In fact, when I saw Wagner berated by Cheryl Cole for allegedly making disparaging comments about her upbringing, it reminded me of the patronising way the Rio rich often reprimand their maids or porters, often from states like Para\u00edba.Wagner's dignified response to Cheryl seemed to completely throw her. He was cordial, modest and affectionate. That's the Brazilian way.The writer Euclides da Cunha once famously said that those who come from Brazil's north-eastern states \"have, before anything else, inner strength.\" When I watched Wagner I saw that inner strength. And what could be more Brazilian than to counter the pain of cultural dislocation than through song?Keen to establish Wagner as some kind of monster, the press threw every Latin American clich\u00e9 at him \u2013 alleging that he scored drugs, got into fights, wanted to marry his first cousin, and lied about his benefits. The X Factor bosses played along to the oversexualised stereotype by surrounding him with female dancers who shocked with their lascivious routines.Wagner's life became a soap opera and his progress in the competition made him, for a few weeks, the biggest celebrity story in the UK. In Brazil, however, Wagner's exploits garnered almost no coverage at all. And this too is a positive sign of the times \u2013 the country has much more important things going on.", "tags": ["The X Factor", "Television", "Brazil", "World news", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Wagner evokes the spirit of modern Brazil | Alex Bellos"},{"date": "2010-11-12T09:35:38Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I wrote recently about worrying threats to press freedom in Brazil. Here's another example. A paper is facing closure after being ordered by a court to pay $353,000 (\u00a3220,000) for \"moral damages\" to an former mayor.The Jornal de Londrina, in Paran\u00e1 state, has petitioned the supreme court to suspend the ruling.In 1994, the paper published reports accusing the then mayor of Sertan\u00f3polis of improper administration. The mayor was later convicted on several counts.Even so, a Paran\u00e1 state court has ruled that the newspaper must pay \"moral damages\" because its reports were \"published prematurely.\"Source: Knight Centre In Portuguese: Supremo Tribunal Federal", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil paper must pay 'moral damages'"},{"date": "2010-11-02T18:58:58Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "BG Group's Brazilian ventures in the Santos Basin will deliver almost 3bn more barrels of oil than expected, the company said today.BG upgraded its estimates for the Tupi, Iracema, and Guar\u00e1 fields, which it is developing with partners including Brazilian oil group Petrobras, from just over 8bn barrels of oil equivalent, to 10.8bn. The upgrade came after an independent analysis of new data gathered from the fields.Shares in the company were up 3.4%, or 41.5p, to \u00a312.52 on the news, making it one of the top performers in the FTSE 100.The size of the Tupi oil field makes it one of the largest finds of recent decades, and the upgrade alone is equivalent to four Buzzard fields, one of the largest in the North Sea. Analysts said there was potential for more good news from Brazil too.\"I think as you get production history and more details the reserves are going to rise,\" said Peter Hitchens of Panmure Gordon.Oswald Clint at Bernstein Research added that \"discoveries of this magnitude are relatively few in this day and age\".The upgrade alone could be worth as much as \u00a34bn to BG.BG chief executive Frank Chapman said: \"This is a material upgrade to what was already a world-class resources position. Only four years have elapsed from first discovery to first production in a play that is at the centre of BG Group's growth plans over the decade ahead.\"The group also announced third-quarter results boosted by a 43% increase in liquefied natural gas (LNG) earnings. Revenues were $978m (\u00a3610m), up 27% on the previous year.Evolution Securities said that once a $106m tax credit was taken into account, the numbers were in line with consensus.Clint added that BG was \"one of the best positioned\" in terms of the LNG market, adding that the \"upstream [division] wasn't as strong as the market expected\".BG announced at the weekend that it had got the go-ahead for its $15bn project to liquify and ship gas produced from coal deposits. The Queensland Curtis project in Eastern Australia will give the group better access to Asian markets.", "tags": ["BG", "Business", "Oil", "Commodities", "Oil and gas companies", "Energy industry", "Brazil", "World news"], "title": "BG Group upgrades Brazil oil field estimates"},{"date": "2010-10-04T05:25:15Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A late surge by the Green party candidate has forced Brazil's presidential election into a second round, with Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva's favoured successor narrowly failing to become the nation's first female leader.Exit polls had suggested Dilma Rousseff, a former leftwing rebel, might still scrape a narrow first-round victory despite falling away in the polls in recent weeks. But the Workers' party (PT) candidate fell short of the 50% needed, taking 47% of the vote.The Greens' Marina Silva, a former rubber-tapper and staunch defender of the Amazon rainforest, got 19%, while Rousseff's main rival, Jos\u00e9 Serra, the Social Democrat, took nearly 33%. Rousseff will face Serra in the second round on 31 October.Silva, who quit as Lula's environment minister after reputedly falling out with Rousseff, will not dispute the second round. But her higher than expected result stripped vital support from Lula's candidate and transformed her into a potential king or queen-maker in the second round.Speaking after the result a visibly ecstatic Silva said the country now had a \"second chance to debate Brazil's future, present and past\".\"These results are the worst imaginable for the government,\" Merval Pereira, a respected political columnist, told TV Globo, pointing to a PT defeat in the race for governor of S\u00e3o Paulo as well as Rousseff's failure to achieve an outright win. \"Dilma's vote was far below what the polls predicted.\"Flanked by stony-faced allies, a noticeably subdued Rousseff tried to put on a brave face claiming a second round would give her \"more time\" to detail her proposals.\"We are used to challenges and traditionally we have done very well in second rounds,\" she said. \"This second stage will start tomorrow \u2026 and for me it has been very important to have got this far.\"While Rousseff, Lula's former chief of staff, has the endorsement of Brazil's hugely popular leftwing leader and remains the favourite, she lacks her mentor's charisma. Some voters remain unsure of her name, referring to the presidential frontrunner simply as \"Lula's woman\". One voter in Rio de Janeiro told the Guardian this week he planned to vote for Lula's candidate, \"Telma\".Political analysts are divided on which candidate Marina Silva might support in the second round \u2013 if she supports anyone at all. One recent poll suggested a significant number of her voters could shift their support to Jose Serra rather than Rousseff in the runoff.In the run up to the campaign Serra reportedly attempted to convince Silva to stand as his vice-presidential candidate but his approaches were rejected. Analysts suggest he may now repeat his offer or look to Fernando Gabeira, another prominent Green party member who has lost out in the race to become Rio de Janeiro's governor.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil election goes to second round"},{"date": "2010-11-02T00:02:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "If voters in the US are about to put back the clocks on a presidency dedicated to radical change, it is heartening to see other nations further south doing the opposite. As he reads the projections on the eve of the midterm elections, Barack Obama must envy the ovation at the polls given to Dilma Rousseff, President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva's handpicked successor. Brazil's first woman president won after a tough and, at times, ugly campaign, in which she was accused of being anti-Christian, for wanting to legalise abortion, and a terrorist, for resisting a military dictatorship which jailed and tortured her. Ms Rousseff was made of sterner stuff, and her election is first and foremost a sign that Brazil wants \"Lulismo\" to continue through her.Inevitably, she will disappoint. After two terms, Lula has the status of a divine entity at home. A born negotiator who presided over an economic boom, Lula pulled more than 20\u00a0million Brazilians out of extreme poverty while 30 million joined the middle class. Per capita income grew by just under a fifth from 2002 to 2010 and unemployment reduced to a record low. It was change that Brazilians could feel.Ms Rousseff comes to power in different circumstances and with very different skills. She is a no-nonsense technocrat with a quick temper. She had to check her natural anger with the Jeremy Paxman of Brazil when an electronic clock malfunctioned during a live television debate. Perhaps that was why she was kept away from the foreign press during her campaign. While the managerial issues of her presidency will present her with no difficulty, the politics of it might. Flattering and cajoling is not her strong suit, although she arrives in power with majorities in both upper and lower houses.The economic boom that Brazil has enjoyed also presents different challenges. It is set to be the world's fifth largest economy by the time it hosts the Olympic Games in 2016, and will not be immune to growing pains. Not unlike Russia, another member of the \"Bric\" countries, its export boom comes from primary products such as iron ore, crude oil, soya beans and wood pulp. China, Brazil's largest trading partner, is hoovering it all up. But exports in cars, shoes or textiles are a different matter. Like Russia, Brazil faces deindustrialisation if it fails to compete as a manufacturer. But for that it needs to tackle the more intractable problems \u2013 like salaries, pensions, the tax system, and public debt \u2013 which Lula showed little desire to reform.Ms Rousseff has her work cut out, and may face a shorter honeymoon than her creator enjoyed. The important thing is that the vision of a nation that pulls millions from poverty as its economy grows is kept alive.", "tags": ["Dilma Rousseff", "Brazil", "World news"], "title": "Brazil: Hard act to follow"},{"date": "2010-11-01T02:00:20Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Like the rally led by Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert of Comedy Central that brought hundreds of thousands of people into the streets of Washington, DC on Saturday, Brazil's election on Sunday was a contest of \"Restore Sanity\" versus \"Keep Fear Alive\" \u2013 but with the fate of millions of Brazilians seriously at stake.Dilma Rousseff of the governing Workers' party coasted to victory against the opposition candidate Jos\u00e9 Serra, with a comfortable margin of 56 to 44%. It had been a bitter and ugly campaign, marked by allegations of corruption and malfeasance on both sides, ending with Serra's wife calling Dilma a \"baby-killer.\"Religious groups and leaders mobilised for the Serra campaign and accused Dilma of wanting to legalise abortion, ban religious symbols, being \"anti-Christian\", and a \"terrorist\" for her resistance to the military dictatorship during the late 1960s. The whole campaign was all too reminiscent of Republican strategies in the United States, going back to the rise of the religious right in the 1980s, through the \"Swift Boat\" politics and Karl Rove's \"Weapons of Mass Distraction\" of recent years. Serra even had a rightwing foreign policy strategy that prompted one critic to label him \"Serra Palin\". His campaign threatened to alienate Brazil from most of its neighbours by accusing the Bolivian government of being \"complicit\" in drug trafficking and Venezuela of \"sheltering\" the Farc (the main guerrilla group) in Colombia.He attacked outgoing President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva for his refusal \u2013 along with most of the rest of South America \u2013 to recognise the government of Honduras. The Honduran government was \"elected\" following a military coup last year, under conditions of censorship and human rights abuses such that only the United States and a handful of mostly rightwing allies recognised it as \"free and fair\".But in the end, sanity triumphed over fear, as voters proved to have been more convinced by the substantial improvements in their well-being during the Lula years than anything Serra had to offer.It is perhaps not surprising that Serra, an economist, would try to find a way to avoid the most important economic issues that affect the lives of the majority of Brazilians. The economy has performed much better during the Lula years than during the eight years of rule by Serra's Social Democratic party (PSDB): per capita income grew by 23% from 2002 to 2010, as opposed to just 3.5% for 1994 to 2002. Measured unemployment is now at a record low of 6.2%.Perhaps even more importantly, the majority of Brazilians enjoyed substantial gains: the minimum wage, adjusted for inflation, grew by about 65% during Lula's presidency. This is more than three times the increase during the prior eight years (that is, the presidency of Fernando Henrique Cardoso, of Serra's party). This affects not only minimum-wage workers, but tens of millions of others whose income is tied to the minimum wage. In addition, the government has expanded the Bolsa Familia programme, which provides small cash grants to poor families on condition of school attendance and health immunisation compliance. The programme has been successful in reducing illiteracy, and now reaches about 13m families. More than 19 million people have been shifted across the poverty line since 2003. And a new scheme of subsidies for home ownership has benefitted hundreds of thousands of families, with millions likely to take part, as it expands.Although the brand of Republican campaign strategy borrowed by Serra was effective for most of the last four decades in the United States, it hasn't performed all that well as an export. The Brazilian electorate tired quickly of the mudslinging; and swing voters wanted to know what Serra would do for them that would be better than what the Workers' party had done. When he couldn't tell them, he lost their votes.On the down side, the negative campaigning prevented the election campaign generally from addressing some of the vital issues of Brazil's future. Brazil's financial elite, which dominates the central bank, has an influence on economic policy that is at least as bad \u2013 and as powerful \u2013 as that of Wall Street in the United States. This is one reason why Brazil, even under Lula, has had, for many years, the highest or near-highest real interest rates in the world. Brazil's growth performance has still not been on a par with the other \"Bric\" countries (Russia, India, China), and the country will have to move away from some of the neoliberal policies of previous governments in order to achieve its potential.Capital formation during the Lula years was not much different from during the Cardoso years, and was relatively low compared to many developing countries. Public investment was even lower, although it has recently begun to accelerate. The country will need a development strategy, and one that establishes new patterns of investment and consumption to advance the interests of the majority of Brazilians \u2013 some 50 million of whom remain in poverty.The election has enormous implications for the western hemisphere, where the Obama State Department has continued, with barely a stutter, the Bush administration's strategy of \"rollback\" against the unprecedented independence that the left governments of South America have won over the last decade. A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC foreign policy establishment.It also has implications for the rest of the world. In May, Brazil and Turkey broke new ground in the world of international diplomacy, by negotiating a nuclear fuel swap arrangement for Iran, in an attempt to resolve the standoff over Iran's nuclear programme. The State Department was probably more upset about this than anything that Brazil had done in the region, including Lula's strong and consistent support for the government of President Hugo Chav\u00e9z in Venezuela. Serra, for his part, had attacked the Iran deal during his campaign.Outside of Washington, then, Dilma Rousseff's win in this election, consolidating President Lula's achievements, will be greeted as good news.\u2022 This article was amended at 11:30 [EST] on 1 November 2010, where it read \"A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC establishment reactionaries\", to the author's preferred version: \"A defeat of the Workers' party would have been a big victory for the DC foreign policy establishment.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Republicans", "US news", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Global development", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "US politics"], "title": "Brazil wins with Dilma Rousseff | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-10-02T23:07:41Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Night was falling on Rio's Ipanema beach. Inside the Londra bar at the upmarket Fasano hotel, waiters were making the final adjustments before throwing open the frosted-glass door to the city's most exclusive nightspot.The bar staff weaved between Sex Pistols-inspired Philippe Starck armchairs shipped in from France. Behind an immaculate bar, stocked with glowing bottles of 12-year-old Glenlivet whisky and buckets of Veuve Clicquot, the cocktail chief showed off his latest creation \u2013 a Martini bloody mary topped with scarlet foam.\"This is a 'sceney' place: a place to see and be seen,\" said Paula Bezerra de Mello, head of PR at what is generally thought to be Rio's most sophisticated hotel. It was, she said, part of the \"new luxury\" of the Lula era.As a former trade unionist, Brazil's hugely popular president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, is best known for helping his country's poor during an eight-year reign that is entering its final moments. According to the government, more than 20 million Brazilians have been hauled out of poverty since Lula came to power. But the rich have not done badly either.Night after night Londra \u2013 \"London\" \u2013 is packed with foreign celebrities and the great and good of Rio's high society, who come together to savour some of the most expensive cocktails in town. They dance until gone 3am and enjoy the charms of a place that many see as a key symbol of the \"new Brazil\": a dynamic nation of talented designers, successful international jet-setters and, of course, beautiful people.With the economy once again on the move and the Olympics and World Cup on the way, there is a certain something in the Rio air right now; a swagger that can be felt not only in Ipanema's luxurious nightspots, but also in the city's impoverished slums \u2013 favelas \u2013 and remote Amazonian towns where shopping malls and cinemas are sprouting from the ground with growing pace.\"There is a greater excitement, an optimism,\" said Rog\u00e9rio Fasano, Brazil's most revered hotelier and restaurateur, who studied film-making in London and conceived Londra as an Italian-tinged homage to his former home. \"I feel that people are seeing Brazil in a different way \u2013 not just in terms of tourism, but in terms of business,\" he said.Many, though not all, attribute this upbeat mood and palpable self-confidence to one man: Lula. According to a poll released on Wednesday, Lula will leave office after two terms with an approval rating of an astronomical 81%.Today the curtains will begin to go down on the \"era Lula\". Unless the presidential race is forced into a second round, Brazilians will discover who will pick up where Lula left off.If polls are to be believed, Lula's successor will be Dilma Rousseff, a former student rebel who rose to be Lula's chief of staff after spending three years in jail under the former military dictatorship. She has a reputation as a respected enforcer entrusted to lead the soon-to-be-ex-president's gigantic economic growth programme, pumping billions into social programmes and infrastructure works.The new president officially takes over on 1 January, 2011. But between now and then historians will pore over one central question: how did Brazil's first working-class leader achieve such a startlingly vibrant legacy?For his Workers' party activists and other Lula allies, the answer remains simple. \"I am 68 years old and I can tell you that Lula was a president who changed the history of Brazil for the poor and humble,\" said Benedita da Silva, a Rio politician who was the first African-Brazilian woman elected to the country's Senate. She briefly served as Lula's social development minister before being caught up in a bribery scandal.Few understand the transformations that Brazil has undergone under Lula better than one of the president's namesakes, a woman who was raised in Chapeu-Mangueira, a Copacabana favela around 10 minutes' drive from Londra, and who has witnessed up close the changes in Brazil's most deprived corners.\"[As a child] I didn't have water. I didn't have electricity. I didn't have a comfortable brick home. Today, these projects are arriving in the communities,\" she said on Thursday during a campaigning event in Nova Igua\u00e7u, an impoverished town in the rundown suburbs of Rio de Janeiro.\"I know what it means to go hungry. I know what it means to live below the poverty line; to not have water, or electricity, or a school for your child; to not be able to get a job because you have no education or because you live in the favela and no one will give you a job because they are scared.\"It was early afternoon and the veteran Workers' party politician \u2013 who claims to be a particular fan of President Lula's homemade soup \u2013 was busy hunting for votes in a bid to be elected to the Brazilian Congress.\"We haven't come here to speak badly about [other politicians]. We have come to show the work that Lula has done,\" she told the largely supportive crowds through a crackly PA system.\"People may not like it, but it is the truth. In the history of our country, Lula has been a great president.\"Around her the Workers' party activists brandished red-and-white flags that were emblazoned with the slogan: \"She's like Lula \u2013 she has the soul of the people.\"Valdinei Medina, a 29-year-old community leader in the slum where Benedita da Silva was born, was nine when Lula appeared at Chapeu Mangueira shantytown high above Copacabana beach. \"He stood right over there under the jackfruit tree,\" he beamed. \"I have a photo of it in the association.\"The year was 1989 and Lula, a former shoeshine boy and fiery union leader, had come to this hillside favela as he made his first bid to become Brazilian president.\"People thought: 'Wow! A presidential candidate has come to the slum!'\" remembered Medina, a keen Lula supporter. \"Back then the slum was complicated. It was something rare. It went down [in our] history.\"Lula lost that year and was not elected president until 2002. But millions of impoverished Brazilians, among them many of Chapeu Mangueira's 3,000-odd residents, are certain it was worth the wait.\"It's like Obama said, 'He's the man',\" said Medina, just before the start of Brazil's final presidential debate. \"Economically things have changed a lot. Before people didn't have phones at home or mobile phones, cars and motorbikes. Today in any favela you go to, the poor man can get these things, can get loans and this is down to Lula, without doubt.\"When Lula took over it was as if the country was coming out of a war. And today things have stabilised. We are no longer known as the country of football and beautiful women. We are known as country that is economically strong.\"Lula's support is not universal. Many believe Lula's success, and the country's growing prosperity, owes more to the commodities boom than to any personal merit and warn that a growing government deficit threatens to cause a major headache in coming years. Others attribute Brazil's recent boom to Lula's predecessor, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, who helped stabilise the country's erratic economy in the early 1990s and, perhaps understandably, feels somewhat aggrieved at the lack of recognition.\"I did the reforms. Lula surfed the wave,\" Cardoso told the Financial Times recently.But no one can argue with those popularity figures. Back in Londra, Mello was celebrating her country's new financial and cultural renaissance \u2013 it is one of the BRIC nations, Brazil, Russia, India and China, which are in the forefront of new economic development \u2013 and pondering the outcome of the election: \"Right now, Lula could elect this [sachet of] sugar if he wanted,\" she said, reaching out for the sugar bowl. \"That is how much charisma and power he has.\"Everybody referred to Brazil as a sleeping giant, and I think what people are realising now is that we are awake,\" she explained in immaculate American English. \"[Being labelled a] BRIC was a significant positioning \u2026 [for people] to realise that there were these four incredibly powerful potential markets. We've always had 'it', and of course the Olympics and the World Cup reiterated that fact,\" she said. \"Now it is official.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Lula's Brazil: glitzy, rich, dynamic"},{"date": "2010-11-30T14:06:18Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When Pel\u00e9 became an international star at the 1958 World Cup, he immediately became a powerful symbol for Brazil. Black and aged only 17, he played football with a smile on his face \u2013 a wonderful metaphor for a young, racially mixed and culturally vibrant country.Back then Brazil was a country on the rise. Its new capital, Bras\u00edlia, was being built at a frenetic pace and President Juscelino Kubitschek was promising \"50 years progress in five.\"In 2010, the most famous Brazilian in Britain is Wagner Fiuza-Carrilho, a 54-year-old bleached blond former karate teacher and losing X Factor contestant. He too is a perfect ambassador for his homeland.Brazil in 2010 is again a country on the rise. It's now the world's eighth largest economy, with increasing diplomatic clout and will host the World Cup in 2014 and the Olympics in 2016.Pel\u00e9 was synonymous with being the best in the world. Wagner, on the other hand, was the least talented singer on this year's X Factor.And that's my point. As Brazil has changed over the last half century so has its sense of self-esteem. Today it is a much more confident nation. It doesn't need to produce winners to feel good about itself the way that it needed to before. As a culture it has so much to feel proud about. Including \u2013 if not, especially \u2013 Wagner.When I first saw Wagner I was captivated by him because I saw so many of the qualities that I love about Brazil and Brazilians. It struck me as offensive and wrong to describe him as an oddball or wacky. Even though much was made of the fact that people only voted for him as a protest vote against Simon Cowell, I think he won over many viewers with his humility, charm and humanity. We weren't laughing at him, we were laughing with him. The public was bear-hugging, not bear-baiting.I lived in Rio for five years. One of the most noticeable aspects of living there is how un-ageist it is \u2013 young children are welcomed wherever you go, and equally no one would think twice if you went to a samba club with your grandparents. Age doesn't seem to define you in the way that it does in the UK. There is nothing more natural than a 54-year-old wanting to take part in a talent show aimed at people less than half his age.Likewise the informality between generations is reflected in more communal behaviour generally. Carnival is a spectacle where everyone who attends takes part. The transformative process of plucking the boy or girl next door and making them sing and dance on a stage was happening on the streets of Rio long before it was in ITV studios.Wagner's personal story is also deeply evocative of modern Brazil. He was born in the north-eastern state of Para\u00edba but moved as a child to Rio de Janeiro. There is a social stigma in being from Para\u00edba, since it is one of the most economically backward states, and Wagner would have felt like an outsider in his own country. In fact, when I saw Wagner berated by Cheryl Cole for allegedly making disparaging comments about her upbringing, it reminded me of the patronising way the Rio rich often reprimand their maids or porters, often from states like Para\u00edba.Wagner's dignified response to Cheryl seemed to completely throw her. He was cordial, modest and affectionate. That's the Brazilian way.The writer Euclides da Cunha once famously said that those who come from Brazil's north-eastern states \"have, before anything else, inner strength.\" When I watched Wagner I saw that inner strength. And what could be more Brazilian than to counter the pain of cultural dislocation than through song?Keen to establish Wagner as some kind of monster, the press threw every Latin American clich\u00e9 at him \u2013 alleging that he scored drugs, got into fights, wanted to marry his first cousin, and lied about his benefits. The X Factor bosses played along to the oversexualised stereotype by surrounding him with female dancers who shocked with their lascivious routines.Wagner's life became a soap opera and his progress in the competition made him, for a few weeks, the biggest celebrity story in the UK. In Brazil, however, Wagner's exploits garnered almost no coverage at all. And this too is a positive sign of the times \u2013 the country has much more important things going on.", "tags": ["The X Factor", "Television", "Brazil", "World news", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Wagner evokes the spirit of modern Brazil | Alex Bellos"},{"date": "2010-11-12T09:35:38Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I wrote recently about worrying threats to press freedom in Brazil. Here's another example. A paper is facing closure after being ordered by a court to pay $353,000 (\u00a3220,000) for \"moral damages\" to an former mayor.The Jornal de Londrina, in Paran\u00e1 state, has petitioned the supreme court to suspend the ruling.In 1994, the paper published reports accusing the then mayor of Sertan\u00f3polis of improper administration. The mayor was later convicted on several counts.Even so, a Paran\u00e1 state court has ruled that the newspaper must pay \"moral damages\" because its reports were \"published prematurely.\"Source: Knight Centre In Portuguese: Supremo Tribunal Federal", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil paper must pay 'moral damages'"},{"date": "2010-11-02T18:58:58Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "BG Group's Brazilian ventures in the Santos Basin will deliver almost 3bn more barrels of oil than expected, the company said today.BG upgraded its estimates for the Tupi, Iracema, and Guar\u00e1 fields, which it is developing with partners including Brazilian oil group Petrobras, from just over 8bn barrels of oil equivalent, to 10.8bn. The upgrade came after an independent analysis of new data gathered from the fields.Shares in the company were up 3.4%, or 41.5p, to \u00a312.52 on the news, making it one of the top performers in the FTSE 100.The size of the Tupi oil field makes it one of the largest finds of recent decades, and the upgrade alone is equivalent to four Buzzard fields, one of the largest in the North Sea. Analysts said there was potential for more good news from Brazil too.\"I think as you get production history and more details the reserves are going to rise,\" said Peter Hitchens of Panmure Gordon.Oswald Clint at Bernstein Research added that \"discoveries of this magnitude are relatively few in this day and age\".The upgrade alone could be worth as much as \u00a34bn to BG.BG chief executive Frank Chapman said: \"This is a material upgrade to what was already a world-class resources position. Only four years have elapsed from first discovery to first production in a play that is at the centre of BG Group's growth plans over the decade ahead.\"The group also announced third-quarter results boosted by a 43% increase in liquefied natural gas (LNG) earnings. Revenues were $978m (\u00a3610m), up 27% on the previous year.Evolution Securities said that once a $106m tax credit was taken into account, the numbers were in line with consensus.Clint added that BG was \"one of the best positioned\" in terms of the LNG market, adding that the \"upstream [division] wasn't as strong as the market expected\".BG announced at the weekend that it had got the go-ahead for its $15bn project to liquify and ship gas produced from coal deposits. The Queensland Curtis project in Eastern Australia will give the group better access to Asian markets.", "tags": ["BG", "Business", "Oil", "Commodities", "Oil and gas companies", "Energy industry", "Brazil", "World news"], "title": "BG Group upgrades Brazil oil field estimates"},{"date": "2010-10-04T05:25:15Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A late surge by the Green party candidate has forced Brazil's presidential election into a second round, with Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva's favoured successor narrowly failing to become the nation's first female leader.Exit polls had suggested Dilma Rousseff, a former leftwing rebel, might still scrape a narrow first-round victory despite falling away in the polls in recent weeks. But the Workers' party (PT) candidate fell short of the 50% needed, taking 47% of the vote.The Greens' Marina Silva, a former rubber-tapper and staunch defender of the Amazon rainforest, got 19%, while Rousseff's main rival, Jos\u00e9 Serra, the Social Democrat, took nearly 33%. Rousseff will face Serra in the second round on 31 October.Silva, who quit as Lula's environment minister after reputedly falling out with Rousseff, will not dispute the second round. But her higher than expected result stripped vital support from Lula's candidate and transformed her into a potential king or queen-maker in the second round.Speaking after the result a visibly ecstatic Silva said the country now had a \"second chance to debate Brazil's future, present and past\".\"These results are the worst imaginable for the government,\" Merval Pereira, a respected political columnist, told TV Globo, pointing to a PT defeat in the race for governor of S\u00e3o Paulo as well as Rousseff's failure to achieve an outright win. \"Dilma's vote was far below what the polls predicted.\"Flanked by stony-faced allies, a noticeably subdued Rousseff tried to put on a brave face claiming a second round would give her \"more time\" to detail her proposals.\"We are used to challenges and traditionally we have done very well in second rounds,\" she said. \"This second stage will start tomorrow \u2026 and for me it has been very important to have got this far.\"While Rousseff, Lula's former chief of staff, has the endorsement of Brazil's hugely popular leftwing leader and remains the favourite, she lacks her mentor's charisma. Some voters remain unsure of her name, referring to the presidential frontrunner simply as \"Lula's woman\". One voter in Rio de Janeiro told the Guardian this week he planned to vote for Lula's candidate, \"Telma\".Political analysts are divided on which candidate Marina Silva might support in the second round \u2013 if she supports anyone at all. One recent poll suggested a significant number of her voters could shift their support to Jose Serra rather than Rousseff in the runoff.In the run up to the campaign Serra reportedly attempted to convince Silva to stand as his vice-presidential candidate but his approaches were rejected. Analysts suggest he may now repeat his offer or look to Fernando Gabeira, another prominent Green party member who has lost out in the race to become Rio de Janeiro's governor.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil election goes to second round"},{"date": "2010-10-04T00:37:25Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil looked to have fallen short of electing its first female president last night, with Dilma Rousseff appearing to have to go into to a second round run-off.With 90% of votes counted, Rousseff had in the region of 46%; to win outright she would have needed more than 50%. One \"well-placed\" source within the Rousseff camp told Reuters there was \"no way\" she would take the first round, although Rouseff, a former guerrilla, had the backing of the retiring president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva.Her rival, the Social Democrat Jose Serra, had just over 33%, while Marina Silva, an Amazon-born Green party candidate, had 20%. Silva, a former rubber-tapper who was environment minister before she quit Lula's Workers' party in 2009, has had a surge in support, particularly in the cities.More than 135 million Brazilians went to the polls yesterday to elect senators, state governors, MPs and a president. While Rousseff, 62, Lula's former chief of staff, enjoys the support of the hugely popular leftwing leader, she lacks the charisma and recognition of her political mentor.Some voters are unsure of her name, while many refer to her simply as \"Lula's woman\".One Rio de Janeiro voter told the Guardian this week he planned to vote for Lula's candidate, \"Telma\".Early yesterday Lula appeared to admit the possibility of a second round; he first ran for the presidency in 1989 but was elected only in 2002. \"I didn't win any election in the first round,\" he told reporters. He played down the consequences of a run-off saying it would merely give Rousseff another \"30 days to fight\".Commentators, however, suggest many Silva voters could shift to Serra rather than Rousseff.On the eve of the election, the Workers' party (PT) members and candidates insisted they were still confident of a first-round victory, despite the fall-out of a recent corruption scandal involving politicians close to Rousseff that appears to have dented her support.Vladimir Palmeira, one of the founders of the PT and a candidate for Brazil's Congress in Rio de Janeiro, said a Rousseff victory would give Brazil \"another eight years of centre-left, if not exactly left-wing government in Brazil.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil presidential elections head for second-round"},{"date": "2011-03-04T10:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Take one Magnum photographer, hundreds of beautiful people on a beach bathed in glorious honey-hued light, some ruminative voiceover, finish with frantic carnival scenes in slow-mo. Serve with caipirinha and rampant jealousy.During Rio's carnival, large groups of suburban gang members - the \"bate-bolas\" (ball-knockers) - congregate in the city for a huge costume challenge. We think that's what this is, anyway.Superb footage from northeastern Brazil of a Meracatu group - a \"fusion of pre-existing forms of Carnival revelry\", of Afro-indigenous origin. Startling stuff, albeit mildly ruined by an odd heavy metal soundtrack. Headphones out for this one, perhaps.Beautiful stills and snatches of video from a carnival troupe in Porto Alegre, southern Brazil, gearing up for the festivities.Those tireless distractors at YouTube are heading to Rio and Salvador to set up camp for the week, streaming street-side coverage from different parts of the city. They've even set up a whole new channel for the stuff, at YouTube.com/carnaval. There's some warm up videos on the site already - the Guardian Travel desk have watched the above video 14 times, and have perfected the moves.", "tags": ["Rio de Janeiro holidays", "Brazil holidays", "Cultural trips", "City breaks"], "title": "Carnival videos from Brazil"},{"date": "2011-03-04T10:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Take one Magnum photographer, hundreds of beautiful people on a beach bathed in glorious honey-hued light, some ruminative voiceover, finish with frantic carnival scenes in slow-mo. Serve with caipirinha and rampant jealousy.During Rio's carnival, large groups of suburban gang members - the \"bate-bolas\" (ball-knockers) - congregate in the city for a huge costume challenge. We think that's what this is, anyway.Superb footage from northeastern Brazil of a Meracatu group - a \"fusion of pre-existing forms of Carnival revelry\", of Afro-indigenous origin. Startling stuff, albeit mildly ruined by an odd heavy metal soundtrack. Headphones out for this one, perhaps.Beautiful stills and snatches of video from a carnival troupe in Porto Alegre, southern Brazil, gearing up for the festivities.Those tireless distractors at YouTube are heading to Rio and Salvador to set up camp for the week, streaming street-side coverage from different parts of the city. They've even set up a whole new channel for the stuff, at YouTube.com/carnaval. There's some warm up videos on the site already - the Guardian Travel desk have watched the above video 14 times, and have perfected the moves.", "tags": ["Rio de Janeiro holidays", "Brazil holidays", "Cultural trips", "City breaks"], "title": "Carnival videos from Brazil"},{"date": "2011-01-14T01:22:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The death toll from some of the deadliest landslides in Brazilian history has continued to rise with at least 482 confirmed victims.Nearly all of those killed were buried alive when avalanches of mud and debris smashed down on to their homes in the early hours of Wednesday. At least 13,000 people have been left homeless by the disaster, which focused on three towns in the mountains north of Rio de Janeiro.\"It is a very dramatic moment. The scenes are very powerful, the suffering is very visible and the risk is very serious,\" Brazil's president, Dilma Rousseff, said after a brief visit to the affected region.Teres\u00f3polis, a bucolic tourist town about 60 miles north of Rio, was one of the hardest-hit areas: by tonight, at least 200 deaths had been confirmed. Local authorities were preparing to erect floodlights in the cemetery in order to hold round-the-clock burials. The town's streets filled with pick-up trucks packed with fleeing residents, carrying mattresses, duvets and pets.In Campo Grande, a shantytown on the outskirts of Teres\u00f3polis that was almost completely enveloped by falling rubble and mud, residents claimed as many as 300 bodies had been buried after a dam burst, triggering a devastating landslide that consumed nearly everything in its path, tossing pick-up trucks into sitting rooms and a delivery truck into a tree.\"It's ugly, really ugly,\" said Vicente Luiz Florente, a 50-year-old builder who had travelled to the area in search of his brother's still buried body. \"This was a community \u2013 now all you can see is rocks.\"Metres up the road, rescue workers unearthed another five bodies, including a young child whose limp corpse was eventually tugged from the debris, wrapped in a black bin liner and dispatched to the local morgue in a mud-covered ambulance.\"We can't be certain about reducing the impact of the rains, but we cannot allow people to die \u2013 this is our mission,\" Rousseff said.In Nova Friburgo, a neighbouring town of Teres\u00f3polis, at least 214 bodies have been recovered.\"This family no longer exists,\" read the headline of a Rio tabloid, alongside the photo of a prominent fashion designer and former Newsweek employee who was buried alongside eight relatives.\"It's a terrible scene,\" said a local judge, Jos\u00e9 Ricardo Ferreira de Aguiar, as he pulled back a black tarpaulin and stepped into Teres\u00f3polis's improvised mortuary \u2013 the garage of the town's police station.On the concrete floor before him lay 100 bodies, among them newborn babies, toddlers, elderly women and teenagers. Caked in brown mud and draped with pieces of soggy cardboard, the bodies were piled in a confusion of arms and legs.Relatives were led into the morgue in groups of four to identify bodies splayed out under pieces of cardboard, sheets and muddy duvets. Those that had already been identified had tatty paper ID tags tied on to their toes.\"There's no chance of even making this human,\" Aguiar said. \"We've just never seen anything like it here.\"Mario Sergio Macario, 22, a student who has been given the job of guarding the morgue's entrance, said several colleagues from his tourism course were missing.\"The station is chaos. It's a public calamity. I've never seen anything like it,\" he said.About 1,000 people were left homeless as the waters smashed through Teres\u00f3polis. The mayor, Jorge Mario Sedlacek, decreed a state of emergency, calling the calamity \"the worst to hit the town\". About 800 search-and-rescue workers from the state's civil defence department and firefighters dug for survivors.Marquinho Maia, a press officer who was helping out at the morgue, said tonight: \"We pulled at least 16 bodies out this morning. Kids, old people. All dead. It's horrible. The city has never had so many fatalities.\"I've lost several friends. One of my friends still hasn't found his mum or his wife. Some areas have been completely destroyed.\"Speaking after a helicopter flight over Teres\u00f3polis, Rio's environment secretary, Carlos Minc, described the mudslides as the worst catastrophe in the region's history.\"I believe the death toll is much higher than has been so far announced,\" he said. \"Many people died in their sleep. The mountainsides are coming down. The areas are very unstable.\"Fernanda Carvalho, a 27-year-old maid from the region, told the Guardian website that the disaster had drawn no distinction between rich and poor. \"The rich man's house, the poor man's house: everything was destroyed,\" she said.Helicopter images showed at least two stranded people desperately waving white shirts in an effort to be rescued. Nearby, a thick brown scar had been ripped through a residential area on the town's outskirts, uprooting trees and demolishing everything in its path.\"There are so many disappeared and so many that will probably never be found,\" said Angela Marina de Carvalho Silva, who believes she may have lost 15 relatives to the flood, including five nieces and nephews.\"There was nothing we could do. It was hell,\" she said in a telephone interview.Carvalho Silva took refuge in a neighbour's house on high ground with her husband and daughter, and watched the torrential rain carry away cars, tree branches and animals and tear apart the homes of friends and family.\"It's over. There's nothing. The water came down and swept everything away,\" said her husband, Sidney Silva.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Brazil landslides death toll rises"},{"date": "2011-03-04T10:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Take one Magnum photographer, hundreds of beautiful people on a beach bathed in glorious honey-hued light, some ruminative voiceover, finish with frantic carnival scenes in slow-mo. Serve with caipirinha and rampant jealousy.During Rio's carnival, large groups of suburban gang members - the \"bate-bolas\" (ball-knockers) - congregate in the city for a huge costume challenge. We think that's what this is, anyway.Superb footage from northeastern Brazil of a Meracatu group - a \"fusion of pre-existing forms of Carnival revelry\", of Afro-indigenous origin. Startling stuff, albeit mildly ruined by an odd heavy metal soundtrack. Headphones out for this one, perhaps.Beautiful stills and snatches of video from a carnival troupe in Porto Alegre, southern Brazil, gearing up for the festivities.Those tireless distractors at YouTube are heading to Rio and Salvador to set up camp for the week, streaming street-side coverage from different parts of the city. They've even set up a whole new channel for the stuff, at YouTube.com/carnaval. There's some warm up videos on the site already - the Guardian Travel desk have watched the above video 14 times, and have perfected the moves.", "tags": ["Rio de Janeiro holidays", "Brazil holidays", "Cultural trips", "City breaks"], "title": "Carnival videos from Brazil"},{"date": "2011-01-14T01:22:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The death toll from some of the deadliest landslides in Brazilian history has continued to rise with at least 482 confirmed victims.Nearly all of those killed were buried alive when avalanches of mud and debris smashed down on to their homes in the early hours of Wednesday. At least 13,000 people have been left homeless by the disaster, which focused on three towns in the mountains north of Rio de Janeiro.\"It is a very dramatic moment. The scenes are very powerful, the suffering is very visible and the risk is very serious,\" Brazil's president, Dilma Rousseff, said after a brief visit to the affected region.Teres\u00f3polis, a bucolic tourist town about 60 miles north of Rio, was one of the hardest-hit areas: by tonight, at least 200 deaths had been confirmed. Local authorities were preparing to erect floodlights in the cemetery in order to hold round-the-clock burials. The town's streets filled with pick-up trucks packed with fleeing residents, carrying mattresses, duvets and pets.In Campo Grande, a shantytown on the outskirts of Teres\u00f3polis that was almost completely enveloped by falling rubble and mud, residents claimed as many as 300 bodies had been buried after a dam burst, triggering a devastating landslide that consumed nearly everything in its path, tossing pick-up trucks into sitting rooms and a delivery truck into a tree.\"It's ugly, really ugly,\" said Vicente Luiz Florente, a 50-year-old builder who had travelled to the area in search of his brother's still buried body. \"This was a community \u2013 now all you can see is rocks.\"Metres up the road, rescue workers unearthed another five bodies, including a young child whose limp corpse was eventually tugged from the debris, wrapped in a black bin liner and dispatched to the local morgue in a mud-covered ambulance.\"We can't be certain about reducing the impact of the rains, but we cannot allow people to die \u2013 this is our mission,\" Rousseff said.In Nova Friburgo, a neighbouring town of Teres\u00f3polis, at least 214 bodies have been recovered.\"This family no longer exists,\" read the headline of a Rio tabloid, alongside the photo of a prominent fashion designer and former Newsweek employee who was buried alongside eight relatives.\"It's a terrible scene,\" said a local judge, Jos\u00e9 Ricardo Ferreira de Aguiar, as he pulled back a black tarpaulin and stepped into Teres\u00f3polis's improvised mortuary \u2013 the garage of the town's police station.On the concrete floor before him lay 100 bodies, among them newborn babies, toddlers, elderly women and teenagers. Caked in brown mud and draped with pieces of soggy cardboard, the bodies were piled in a confusion of arms and legs.Relatives were led into the morgue in groups of four to identify bodies splayed out under pieces of cardboard, sheets and muddy duvets. Those that had already been identified had tatty paper ID tags tied on to their toes.\"There's no chance of even making this human,\" Aguiar said. \"We've just never seen anything like it here.\"Mario Sergio Macario, 22, a student who has been given the job of guarding the morgue's entrance, said several colleagues from his tourism course were missing.\"The station is chaos. It's a public calamity. I've never seen anything like it,\" he said.About 1,000 people were left homeless as the waters smashed through Teres\u00f3polis. The mayor, Jorge Mario Sedlacek, decreed a state of emergency, calling the calamity \"the worst to hit the town\". About 800 search-and-rescue workers from the state's civil defence department and firefighters dug for survivors.Marquinho Maia, a press officer who was helping out at the morgue, said tonight: \"We pulled at least 16 bodies out this morning. Kids, old people. All dead. It's horrible. The city has never had so many fatalities.\"I've lost several friends. One of my friends still hasn't found his mum or his wife. Some areas have been completely destroyed.\"Speaking after a helicopter flight over Teres\u00f3polis, Rio's environment secretary, Carlos Minc, described the mudslides as the worst catastrophe in the region's history.\"I believe the death toll is much higher than has been so far announced,\" he said. \"Many people died in their sleep. The mountainsides are coming down. The areas are very unstable.\"Fernanda Carvalho, a 27-year-old maid from the region, told the Guardian website that the disaster had drawn no distinction between rich and poor. \"The rich man's house, the poor man's house: everything was destroyed,\" she said.Helicopter images showed at least two stranded people desperately waving white shirts in an effort to be rescued. Nearby, a thick brown scar had been ripped through a residential area on the town's outskirts, uprooting trees and demolishing everything in its path.\"There are so many disappeared and so many that will probably never be found,\" said Angela Marina de Carvalho Silva, who believes she may have lost 15 relatives to the flood, including five nieces and nephews.\"There was nothing we could do. It was hell,\" she said in a telephone interview.Carvalho Silva took refuge in a neighbour's house on high ground with her husband and daughter, and watched the torrential rain carry away cars, tree branches and animals and tear apart the homes of friends and family.\"It's over. There's nothing. The water came down and swept everything away,\" said her husband, Sidney Silva.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Brazil landslides death toll rises"},{"date": "2011-03-30T11:28:45Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is considering offering financial support to Portugal to help its former colonial power avoid being sucked even deeper into its debt crisis.Brazilian president Dilma Rousseff said on Wednesday that her government was studying ways in which it could buy Portuguese government debt. Another option would be to give Portugal a cash injection by buying back some of the Brazilian government debt it currently owns.\"One of the possibilities is buying part of Portugal's sovereign debt,\" Rousseff told the Di\u00e1rio Econ\u00f3mico newspaper. \"We are also examining other alternatives such as early buyback of Brazilian bonds held by the Portuguese government.\"Brazil broke away from Portugal in 1822, but the countries enjoy close political and economic ties. According to the International Monetary Fund, the Brazilian economy is now almost 10 times larger than that of Portugal.Any lifeline from Brazil would be welcome for Portugal, whose debt costs have spiked to record highs this week. Its credit rating was lowered to the brink of \"junk\" status on Tuesday and many City economists believe a rescue package is becoming inevitable.\"With Portugal being one false step away from losing investment-grade status, it is only going to make it more difficult for them to fund themselves in the market and it is possible that this downgrade is the tipping point that leads to an EU bailout,\" said Gary Jenkins, head of fixed income research at Evolution Securities.But Jenkins was not convinced that Rousseff's suggestion, made during an official visit to Portugal, would actually result in financial support for the Lisbon government.Uwe Parpart, Cantor Fitzgerald's chief economist in Asia, agreed that Portugal was \"closer to having to go to Brussels, begging bowl in hand, and ask for a bailout\".On Tuesday, Rousseff's predecessor as president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, urged Portugal to resist a rescue package. \"Whenever the IMF tried to take care of countries' debts, it created more problems than solutions,\" he said.The yield, or effective interest rate, on Portuguese two-year government bonds rose to about 7.6% on Wednesday, closer to the 10-year bonds which broke through the 8% barrier this week.\"As the two-year yield jumps and catches up with the 10-year, Portugal is now priced to fail,\" Parpart said.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Portugal", "Brazil", "Dilma Rousseff", "European banks", "Europe", "World news", "Business", "Economics", "Global economy"], "title": "Brazil considers helping Portugal ease debt crisis"},{"date": "2011-03-04T10:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Take one Magnum photographer, hundreds of beautiful people on a beach bathed in glorious honey-hued light, some ruminative voiceover, finish with frantic carnival scenes in slow-mo. Serve with caipirinha and rampant jealousy.During Rio's carnival, large groups of suburban gang members - the \"bate-bolas\" (ball-knockers) - congregate in the city for a huge costume challenge. We think that's what this is, anyway.Superb footage from northeastern Brazil of a Meracatu group - a \"fusion of pre-existing forms of Carnival revelry\", of Afro-indigenous origin. Startling stuff, albeit mildly ruined by an odd heavy metal soundtrack. Headphones out for this one, perhaps.Beautiful stills and snatches of video from a carnival troupe in Porto Alegre, southern Brazil, gearing up for the festivities.Those tireless distractors at YouTube are heading to Rio and Salvador to set up camp for the week, streaming street-side coverage from different parts of the city. They've even set up a whole new channel for the stuff, at YouTube.com/carnaval. There's some warm up videos on the site already - the Guardian Travel desk have watched the above video 14 times, and have perfected the moves.", "tags": ["Rio de Janeiro holidays", "Brazil holidays", "Cultural trips", "City breaks"], "title": "Carnival videos from Brazil"},{"date": "2011-01-14T01:22:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The death toll from some of the deadliest landslides in Brazilian history has continued to rise with at least 482 confirmed victims.Nearly all of those killed were buried alive when avalanches of mud and debris smashed down on to their homes in the early hours of Wednesday. At least 13,000 people have been left homeless by the disaster, which focused on three towns in the mountains north of Rio de Janeiro.\"It is a very dramatic moment. The scenes are very powerful, the suffering is very visible and the risk is very serious,\" Brazil's president, Dilma Rousseff, said after a brief visit to the affected region.Teres\u00f3polis, a bucolic tourist town about 60 miles north of Rio, was one of the hardest-hit areas: by tonight, at least 200 deaths had been confirmed. Local authorities were preparing to erect floodlights in the cemetery in order to hold round-the-clock burials. The town's streets filled with pick-up trucks packed with fleeing residents, carrying mattresses, duvets and pets.In Campo Grande, a shantytown on the outskirts of Teres\u00f3polis that was almost completely enveloped by falling rubble and mud, residents claimed as many as 300 bodies had been buried after a dam burst, triggering a devastating landslide that consumed nearly everything in its path, tossing pick-up trucks into sitting rooms and a delivery truck into a tree.\"It's ugly, really ugly,\" said Vicente Luiz Florente, a 50-year-old builder who had travelled to the area in search of his brother's still buried body. \"This was a community \u2013 now all you can see is rocks.\"Metres up the road, rescue workers unearthed another five bodies, including a young child whose limp corpse was eventually tugged from the debris, wrapped in a black bin liner and dispatched to the local morgue in a mud-covered ambulance.\"We can't be certain about reducing the impact of the rains, but we cannot allow people to die \u2013 this is our mission,\" Rousseff said.In Nova Friburgo, a neighbouring town of Teres\u00f3polis, at least 214 bodies have been recovered.\"This family no longer exists,\" read the headline of a Rio tabloid, alongside the photo of a prominent fashion designer and former Newsweek employee who was buried alongside eight relatives.\"It's a terrible scene,\" said a local judge, Jos\u00e9 Ricardo Ferreira de Aguiar, as he pulled back a black tarpaulin and stepped into Teres\u00f3polis's improvised mortuary \u2013 the garage of the town's police station.On the concrete floor before him lay 100 bodies, among them newborn babies, toddlers, elderly women and teenagers. Caked in brown mud and draped with pieces of soggy cardboard, the bodies were piled in a confusion of arms and legs.Relatives were led into the morgue in groups of four to identify bodies splayed out under pieces of cardboard, sheets and muddy duvets. Those that had already been identified had tatty paper ID tags tied on to their toes.\"There's no chance of even making this human,\" Aguiar said. \"We've just never seen anything like it here.\"Mario Sergio Macario, 22, a student who has been given the job of guarding the morgue's entrance, said several colleagues from his tourism course were missing.\"The station is chaos. It's a public calamity. I've never seen anything like it,\" he said.About 1,000 people were left homeless as the waters smashed through Teres\u00f3polis. The mayor, Jorge Mario Sedlacek, decreed a state of emergency, calling the calamity \"the worst to hit the town\". About 800 search-and-rescue workers from the state's civil defence department and firefighters dug for survivors.Marquinho Maia, a press officer who was helping out at the morgue, said tonight: \"We pulled at least 16 bodies out this morning. Kids, old people. All dead. It's horrible. The city has never had so many fatalities.\"I've lost several friends. One of my friends still hasn't found his mum or his wife. Some areas have been completely destroyed.\"Speaking after a helicopter flight over Teres\u00f3polis, Rio's environment secretary, Carlos Minc, described the mudslides as the worst catastrophe in the region's history.\"I believe the death toll is much higher than has been so far announced,\" he said. \"Many people died in their sleep. The mountainsides are coming down. The areas are very unstable.\"Fernanda Carvalho, a 27-year-old maid from the region, told the Guardian website that the disaster had drawn no distinction between rich and poor. \"The rich man's house, the poor man's house: everything was destroyed,\" she said.Helicopter images showed at least two stranded people desperately waving white shirts in an effort to be rescued. Nearby, a thick brown scar had been ripped through a residential area on the town's outskirts, uprooting trees and demolishing everything in its path.\"There are so many disappeared and so many that will probably never be found,\" said Angela Marina de Carvalho Silva, who believes she may have lost 15 relatives to the flood, including five nieces and nephews.\"There was nothing we could do. It was hell,\" she said in a telephone interview.Carvalho Silva took refuge in a neighbour's house on high ground with her husband and daughter, and watched the torrential rain carry away cars, tree branches and animals and tear apart the homes of friends and family.\"It's over. There's nothing. The water came down and swept everything away,\" said her husband, Sidney Silva.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Brazil landslides death toll rises"},{"date": "2011-03-30T11:28:45Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is considering offering financial support to Portugal to help its former colonial power avoid being sucked even deeper into its debt crisis.Brazilian president Dilma Rousseff said on Wednesday that her government was studying ways in which it could buy Portuguese government debt. Another option would be to give Portugal a cash injection by buying back some of the Brazilian government debt it currently owns.\"One of the possibilities is buying part of Portugal's sovereign debt,\" Rousseff told the Di\u00e1rio Econ\u00f3mico newspaper. \"We are also examining other alternatives such as early buyback of Brazilian bonds held by the Portuguese government.\"Brazil broke away from Portugal in 1822, but the countries enjoy close political and economic ties. According to the International Monetary Fund, the Brazilian economy is now almost 10 times larger than that of Portugal.Any lifeline from Brazil would be welcome for Portugal, whose debt costs have spiked to record highs this week. Its credit rating was lowered to the brink of \"junk\" status on Tuesday and many City economists believe a rescue package is becoming inevitable.\"With Portugal being one false step away from losing investment-grade status, it is only going to make it more difficult for them to fund themselves in the market and it is possible that this downgrade is the tipping point that leads to an EU bailout,\" said Gary Jenkins, head of fixed income research at Evolution Securities.But Jenkins was not convinced that Rousseff's suggestion, made during an official visit to Portugal, would actually result in financial support for the Lisbon government.Uwe Parpart, Cantor Fitzgerald's chief economist in Asia, agreed that Portugal was \"closer to having to go to Brussels, begging bowl in hand, and ask for a bailout\".On Tuesday, Rousseff's predecessor as president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, urged Portugal to resist a rescue package. \"Whenever the IMF tried to take care of countries' debts, it created more problems than solutions,\" he said.The yield, or effective interest rate, on Portuguese two-year government bonds rose to about 7.6% on Wednesday, closer to the 10-year bonds which broke through the 8% barrier this week.\"As the two-year yield jumps and catches up with the 10-year, Portugal is now priced to fail,\" Parpart said.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Portugal", "Brazil", "Dilma Rousseff", "European banks", "Europe", "World news", "Business", "Economics", "Global economy"], "title": "Brazil considers helping Portugal ease debt crisis"},{"date": "2011-03-08T00:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When I grew up in a middle-class family in Brazil, my parents expected me to be a good housewife and get a teaching degree in case I didn't marry and needed to work. They also expected me to remain a virgin until I married. It was not that my parents were especially conservative, they were typical.Women now have many more options. New careers are open for them, they have greater freedoms regarding their sexuality, they can avoid an unwanted pregnancy more easily. Unfortunately, these options are not equally available for all women, but they are much more widespread.I think the most important change is in the way women think of themselves. What was the privilege of a small group of rebellious women like myself became a great asset for large numbers of women of different social classes. They tend to see themselves as autonomous human beings who are free to decide about their lives and who have the right to be respected and treated without discrimination.Here again, progress is not uniform, and even very liberated women who live in egalitarian relationships with their partners may still face huge obstacles. I see several areas where progress has been slower.One is the beauty mandate that hangs over the heads even of very accomplished women. Plastic surgery is very common in Brazil. Another is the difficulty of sharing care work. When it comes to taking care of babies and infants, or sick and old parents, the burdens are still on the shoulders of individual women, who are rarely supported by their partners or social institutions. A third is domestic violence, a plague that haunts many women \u2013 especially those who are economically dependent of men. A fourth is the stigma and illegality still surrounding abortion, to which many women still have to resort.And finally, in political participation there has been some important progress \u2013 the president is now a woman \u2013 but it is still elusive for many women. Dilma Rousseff's election did not open the doors to women's participation in politics on equal terms, even though it was a remarkable achievement.", "tags": ["Global development", "Gender", "Brazil", "World news", "Women", "Life and style", "International Women's Day"], "title": "Life in Brazil on International Women's Day"},{"date": "2011-03-04T10:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Take one Magnum photographer, hundreds of beautiful people on a beach bathed in glorious honey-hued light, some ruminative voiceover, finish with frantic carnival scenes in slow-mo. Serve with caipirinha and rampant jealousy.During Rio's carnival, large groups of suburban gang members - the \"bate-bolas\" (ball-knockers) - congregate in the city for a huge costume challenge. We think that's what this is, anyway.Superb footage from northeastern Brazil of a Meracatu group - a \"fusion of pre-existing forms of Carnival revelry\", of Afro-indigenous origin. Startling stuff, albeit mildly ruined by an odd heavy metal soundtrack. Headphones out for this one, perhaps.Beautiful stills and snatches of video from a carnival troupe in Porto Alegre, southern Brazil, gearing up for the festivities.Those tireless distractors at YouTube are heading to Rio and Salvador to set up camp for the week, streaming street-side coverage from different parts of the city. They've even set up a whole new channel for the stuff, at YouTube.com/carnaval. There's some warm up videos on the site already - the Guardian Travel desk have watched the above video 14 times, and have perfected the moves.", "tags": ["Rio de Janeiro holidays", "Brazil holidays", "Cultural trips", "City breaks"], "title": "Carnival videos from Brazil"},{"date": "2011-01-14T01:22:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The death toll from some of the deadliest landslides in Brazilian history has continued to rise with at least 482 confirmed victims.Nearly all of those killed were buried alive when avalanches of mud and debris smashed down on to their homes in the early hours of Wednesday. At least 13,000 people have been left homeless by the disaster, which focused on three towns in the mountains north of Rio de Janeiro.\"It is a very dramatic moment. The scenes are very powerful, the suffering is very visible and the risk is very serious,\" Brazil's president, Dilma Rousseff, said after a brief visit to the affected region.Teres\u00f3polis, a bucolic tourist town about 60 miles north of Rio, was one of the hardest-hit areas: by tonight, at least 200 deaths had been confirmed. Local authorities were preparing to erect floodlights in the cemetery in order to hold round-the-clock burials. The town's streets filled with pick-up trucks packed with fleeing residents, carrying mattresses, duvets and pets.In Campo Grande, a shantytown on the outskirts of Teres\u00f3polis that was almost completely enveloped by falling rubble and mud, residents claimed as many as 300 bodies had been buried after a dam burst, triggering a devastating landslide that consumed nearly everything in its path, tossing pick-up trucks into sitting rooms and a delivery truck into a tree.\"It's ugly, really ugly,\" said Vicente Luiz Florente, a 50-year-old builder who had travelled to the area in search of his brother's still buried body. \"This was a community \u2013 now all you can see is rocks.\"Metres up the road, rescue workers unearthed another five bodies, including a young child whose limp corpse was eventually tugged from the debris, wrapped in a black bin liner and dispatched to the local morgue in a mud-covered ambulance.\"We can't be certain about reducing the impact of the rains, but we cannot allow people to die \u2013 this is our mission,\" Rousseff said.In Nova Friburgo, a neighbouring town of Teres\u00f3polis, at least 214 bodies have been recovered.\"This family no longer exists,\" read the headline of a Rio tabloid, alongside the photo of a prominent fashion designer and former Newsweek employee who was buried alongside eight relatives.\"It's a terrible scene,\" said a local judge, Jos\u00e9 Ricardo Ferreira de Aguiar, as he pulled back a black tarpaulin and stepped into Teres\u00f3polis's improvised mortuary \u2013 the garage of the town's police station.On the concrete floor before him lay 100 bodies, among them newborn babies, toddlers, elderly women and teenagers. Caked in brown mud and draped with pieces of soggy cardboard, the bodies were piled in a confusion of arms and legs.Relatives were led into the morgue in groups of four to identify bodies splayed out under pieces of cardboard, sheets and muddy duvets. Those that had already been identified had tatty paper ID tags tied on to their toes.\"There's no chance of even making this human,\" Aguiar said. \"We've just never seen anything like it here.\"Mario Sergio Macario, 22, a student who has been given the job of guarding the morgue's entrance, said several colleagues from his tourism course were missing.\"The station is chaos. It's a public calamity. I've never seen anything like it,\" he said.About 1,000 people were left homeless as the waters smashed through Teres\u00f3polis. The mayor, Jorge Mario Sedlacek, decreed a state of emergency, calling the calamity \"the worst to hit the town\". About 800 search-and-rescue workers from the state's civil defence department and firefighters dug for survivors.Marquinho Maia, a press officer who was helping out at the morgue, said tonight: \"We pulled at least 16 bodies out this morning. Kids, old people. All dead. It's horrible. The city has never had so many fatalities.\"I've lost several friends. One of my friends still hasn't found his mum or his wife. Some areas have been completely destroyed.\"Speaking after a helicopter flight over Teres\u00f3polis, Rio's environment secretary, Carlos Minc, described the mudslides as the worst catastrophe in the region's history.\"I believe the death toll is much higher than has been so far announced,\" he said. \"Many people died in their sleep. The mountainsides are coming down. The areas are very unstable.\"Fernanda Carvalho, a 27-year-old maid from the region, told the Guardian website that the disaster had drawn no distinction between rich and poor. \"The rich man's house, the poor man's house: everything was destroyed,\" she said.Helicopter images showed at least two stranded people desperately waving white shirts in an effort to be rescued. Nearby, a thick brown scar had been ripped through a residential area on the town's outskirts, uprooting trees and demolishing everything in its path.\"There are so many disappeared and so many that will probably never be found,\" said Angela Marina de Carvalho Silva, who believes she may have lost 15 relatives to the flood, including five nieces and nephews.\"There was nothing we could do. It was hell,\" she said in a telephone interview.Carvalho Silva took refuge in a neighbour's house on high ground with her husband and daughter, and watched the torrential rain carry away cars, tree branches and animals and tear apart the homes of friends and family.\"It's over. There's nothing. The water came down and swept everything away,\" said her husband, Sidney Silva.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Brazil landslides death toll rises"},{"date": "2011-03-30T11:28:45Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is considering offering financial support to Portugal to help its former colonial power avoid being sucked even deeper into its debt crisis.Brazilian president Dilma Rousseff said on Wednesday that her government was studying ways in which it could buy Portuguese government debt. Another option would be to give Portugal a cash injection by buying back some of the Brazilian government debt it currently owns.\"One of the possibilities is buying part of Portugal's sovereign debt,\" Rousseff told the Di\u00e1rio Econ\u00f3mico newspaper. \"We are also examining other alternatives such as early buyback of Brazilian bonds held by the Portuguese government.\"Brazil broke away from Portugal in 1822, but the countries enjoy close political and economic ties. According to the International Monetary Fund, the Brazilian economy is now almost 10 times larger than that of Portugal.Any lifeline from Brazil would be welcome for Portugal, whose debt costs have spiked to record highs this week. Its credit rating was lowered to the brink of \"junk\" status on Tuesday and many City economists believe a rescue package is becoming inevitable.\"With Portugal being one false step away from losing investment-grade status, it is only going to make it more difficult for them to fund themselves in the market and it is possible that this downgrade is the tipping point that leads to an EU bailout,\" said Gary Jenkins, head of fixed income research at Evolution Securities.But Jenkins was not convinced that Rousseff's suggestion, made during an official visit to Portugal, would actually result in financial support for the Lisbon government.Uwe Parpart, Cantor Fitzgerald's chief economist in Asia, agreed that Portugal was \"closer to having to go to Brussels, begging bowl in hand, and ask for a bailout\".On Tuesday, Rousseff's predecessor as president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, urged Portugal to resist a rescue package. \"Whenever the IMF tried to take care of countries' debts, it created more problems than solutions,\" he said.The yield, or effective interest rate, on Portuguese two-year government bonds rose to about 7.6% on Wednesday, closer to the 10-year bonds which broke through the 8% barrier this week.\"As the two-year yield jumps and catches up with the 10-year, Portugal is now priced to fail,\" Parpart said.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Portugal", "Brazil", "Dilma Rousseff", "European banks", "Europe", "World news", "Business", "Economics", "Global economy"], "title": "Brazil considers helping Portugal ease debt crisis"},{"date": "2011-03-08T00:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When I grew up in a middle-class family in Brazil, my parents expected me to be a good housewife and get a teaching degree in case I didn't marry and needed to work. They also expected me to remain a virgin until I married. It was not that my parents were especially conservative, they were typical.Women now have many more options. New careers are open for them, they have greater freedoms regarding their sexuality, they can avoid an unwanted pregnancy more easily. Unfortunately, these options are not equally available for all women, but they are much more widespread.I think the most important change is in the way women think of themselves. What was the privilege of a small group of rebellious women like myself became a great asset for large numbers of women of different social classes. They tend to see themselves as autonomous human beings who are free to decide about their lives and who have the right to be respected and treated without discrimination.Here again, progress is not uniform, and even very liberated women who live in egalitarian relationships with their partners may still face huge obstacles. I see several areas where progress has been slower.One is the beauty mandate that hangs over the heads even of very accomplished women. Plastic surgery is very common in Brazil. Another is the difficulty of sharing care work. When it comes to taking care of babies and infants, or sick and old parents, the burdens are still on the shoulders of individual women, who are rarely supported by their partners or social institutions. A third is domestic violence, a plague that haunts many women \u2013 especially those who are economically dependent of men. A fourth is the stigma and illegality still surrounding abortion, to which many women still have to resort.And finally, in political participation there has been some important progress \u2013 the president is now a woman \u2013 but it is still elusive for many women. Dilma Rousseff's election did not open the doors to women's participation in politics on equal terms, even though it was a remarkable achievement.", "tags": ["Global development", "Gender", "Brazil", "World news", "Women", "Life and style", "International Women's Day"], "title": "Life in Brazil on International Women's Day"},{"date": "2011-03-03T20:30:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "For those familiar with Latin American politics, the notion that Muammar Gaddafi had fled to Venezuela seemed absurd. Certainly, Ch\u00e1vez and other leftwing Latin American leaders have seemed embarrassed and uncertain how to respond to the events unfolding in Libya. But Ch\u00e1vez has not given explicit support and it is an awkward moment for many governments. In any case, Gaddafi has much better friends in Africa and had some good friends in London as well.It was interesting to see British Foreign Secretary William Hague bring Ch\u00e1vez briefly back to the centre of attention in Latin American politics. Because, for better or worse, Ch\u00e1vez is much less important in the region than he was a few years ago. And there is a new figure on the scene, now in charge of half of South America's population, who may be beginning to embody a new strategy for left-of-centre leaders in Latin America.In her first months as president of Brazil, Dilma Rousseff, former guerrilla and chosen successor to the wildly popular Lula, has begun to carve out her own style. She took a step back from her country's friendship with the government of Iran, and has set out to rein in public spending, something she thinks necessary to keep the country's economic boom going. Her strategy seems to be to maintain pragmatic centrist policies and forge ahead with fast growth, content that it has raised several tens of millions of people out of poverty in the last few years.For decades the leftwing strategy in Latin America, from Castro to the Sandinistas to Lula's early presidential campaigns, was to create a radical and alternative project outside of global capitalism and the \"imperialist\" west. With their economies booming and the US's so clearly faltering, many in Latin America are finding they can beat the west at its own game \u2013 and then use their increased power and wealth to pursue their goals at home and abroad. It's an approach reminiscent of China; and coincidentally, the boom in many countries comes largely from exporting commodities to China.In 2005, when Ch\u00e1vez led the openly confrontational campaign to bury George W Bush's Free Trade Agreement of the Americas \u2013 flanked by former Argentine soccer star Diego Maradona, no less \u2013 the world was a different place. The credit bubble was still expanding in the rich countries, the US was confidently and openly aggressive internationally, and was pushing a trade agreement it seemed they hadn't bothered to ask Latin Americans about first. Now, the US economy is in the dumps, its politics is beset by internal squabbling, and its leadership has been forced to humbly accept the limits of American power. Meanwhile, Latin American is rushing ahead \u2013 its economy is thought to have grown by about 6% last year \u2013 and is increasingly confident on the global stage.Latin leaders used to love to thumb their noses at the west: Ch\u00e1vez called Bush \"the devil\", Bolivia's Evo Morales joked about being included in the \"Axis of Evil\", and Lula famously said \u2013 to Gordon Brown's face \u2013 that the financial crisis and subsequent international misery was caused by \"blue-eyed bankers\". I suspect we will see less of this from Dilma Rousseff, who can carry on quietly confident that everyone knows in whose favour the balance of power is tilting. It's not yet clear if she will continue in the tradition of maintaining international alliances that infuriate Washington, but her move on Iran suggests she may not.Of course, Brazil's current path has its limitations. There is the risk of over-reliance on commodity exports and the death of industry. And posting big increases in GDP, while useful, has not magically solved the often shocking levels of inequality and social exclusion in the country. Many in the very different Spanish-speaking countries of Latin America, where no country has Brazil's shot at being a global power, remain committed to a much more radical approach. But no new solidly leftwing leaders are on the up at the moment, and there is certainly nothing of the kind on the horizon in Brazil. Here, where most people are better-off than they were a few years ago, the attitude seems to be: \"If it ain't broken, why fix it?\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Dilma Rousseff", "Venezuela", "Hugo Ch\u00e1vez", "Libya", "Muammar Gaddafi", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US economy", "Evo Morales", "Bolivia", "George Bush", "Africa", "Americas"], "title": "Dilma Rousseff moves Brazil to centre | Vincent Bevins"},{"date": "2011-03-04T10:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Take one Magnum photographer, hundreds of beautiful people on a beach bathed in glorious honey-hued light, some ruminative voiceover, finish with frantic carnival scenes in slow-mo. Serve with caipirinha and rampant jealousy.During Rio's carnival, large groups of suburban gang members - the \"bate-bolas\" (ball-knockers) - congregate in the city for a huge costume challenge. We think that's what this is, anyway.Superb footage from northeastern Brazil of a Meracatu group - a \"fusion of pre-existing forms of Carnival revelry\", of Afro-indigenous origin. Startling stuff, albeit mildly ruined by an odd heavy metal soundtrack. Headphones out for this one, perhaps.Beautiful stills and snatches of video from a carnival troupe in Porto Alegre, southern Brazil, gearing up for the festivities.Those tireless distractors at YouTube are heading to Rio and Salvador to set up camp for the week, streaming street-side coverage from different parts of the city. They've even set up a whole new channel for the stuff, at YouTube.com/carnaval. There's some warm up videos on the site already - the Guardian Travel desk have watched the above video 14 times, and have perfected the moves.", "tags": ["Rio de Janeiro holidays", "Brazil holidays", "Cultural trips", "City breaks"], "title": "Carnival videos from Brazil"},{"date": "2011-01-14T01:22:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The death toll from some of the deadliest landslides in Brazilian history has continued to rise with at least 482 confirmed victims.Nearly all of those killed were buried alive when avalanches of mud and debris smashed down on to their homes in the early hours of Wednesday. At least 13,000 people have been left homeless by the disaster, which focused on three towns in the mountains north of Rio de Janeiro.\"It is a very dramatic moment. The scenes are very powerful, the suffering is very visible and the risk is very serious,\" Brazil's president, Dilma Rousseff, said after a brief visit to the affected region.Teres\u00f3polis, a bucolic tourist town about 60 miles north of Rio, was one of the hardest-hit areas: by tonight, at least 200 deaths had been confirmed. Local authorities were preparing to erect floodlights in the cemetery in order to hold round-the-clock burials. The town's streets filled with pick-up trucks packed with fleeing residents, carrying mattresses, duvets and pets.In Campo Grande, a shantytown on the outskirts of Teres\u00f3polis that was almost completely enveloped by falling rubble and mud, residents claimed as many as 300 bodies had been buried after a dam burst, triggering a devastating landslide that consumed nearly everything in its path, tossing pick-up trucks into sitting rooms and a delivery truck into a tree.\"It's ugly, really ugly,\" said Vicente Luiz Florente, a 50-year-old builder who had travelled to the area in search of his brother's still buried body. \"This was a community \u2013 now all you can see is rocks.\"Metres up the road, rescue workers unearthed another five bodies, including a young child whose limp corpse was eventually tugged from the debris, wrapped in a black bin liner and dispatched to the local morgue in a mud-covered ambulance.\"We can't be certain about reducing the impact of the rains, but we cannot allow people to die \u2013 this is our mission,\" Rousseff said.In Nova Friburgo, a neighbouring town of Teres\u00f3polis, at least 214 bodies have been recovered.\"This family no longer exists,\" read the headline of a Rio tabloid, alongside the photo of a prominent fashion designer and former Newsweek employee who was buried alongside eight relatives.\"It's a terrible scene,\" said a local judge, Jos\u00e9 Ricardo Ferreira de Aguiar, as he pulled back a black tarpaulin and stepped into Teres\u00f3polis's improvised mortuary \u2013 the garage of the town's police station.On the concrete floor before him lay 100 bodies, among them newborn babies, toddlers, elderly women and teenagers. Caked in brown mud and draped with pieces of soggy cardboard, the bodies were piled in a confusion of arms and legs.Relatives were led into the morgue in groups of four to identify bodies splayed out under pieces of cardboard, sheets and muddy duvets. Those that had already been identified had tatty paper ID tags tied on to their toes.\"There's no chance of even making this human,\" Aguiar said. \"We've just never seen anything like it here.\"Mario Sergio Macario, 22, a student who has been given the job of guarding the morgue's entrance, said several colleagues from his tourism course were missing.\"The station is chaos. It's a public calamity. I've never seen anything like it,\" he said.About 1,000 people were left homeless as the waters smashed through Teres\u00f3polis. The mayor, Jorge Mario Sedlacek, decreed a state of emergency, calling the calamity \"the worst to hit the town\". About 800 search-and-rescue workers from the state's civil defence department and firefighters dug for survivors.Marquinho Maia, a press officer who was helping out at the morgue, said tonight: \"We pulled at least 16 bodies out this morning. Kids, old people. All dead. It's horrible. The city has never had so many fatalities.\"I've lost several friends. One of my friends still hasn't found his mum or his wife. Some areas have been completely destroyed.\"Speaking after a helicopter flight over Teres\u00f3polis, Rio's environment secretary, Carlos Minc, described the mudslides as the worst catastrophe in the region's history.\"I believe the death toll is much higher than has been so far announced,\" he said. \"Many people died in their sleep. The mountainsides are coming down. The areas are very unstable.\"Fernanda Carvalho, a 27-year-old maid from the region, told the Guardian website that the disaster had drawn no distinction between rich and poor. \"The rich man's house, the poor man's house: everything was destroyed,\" she said.Helicopter images showed at least two stranded people desperately waving white shirts in an effort to be rescued. Nearby, a thick brown scar had been ripped through a residential area on the town's outskirts, uprooting trees and demolishing everything in its path.\"There are so many disappeared and so many that will probably never be found,\" said Angela Marina de Carvalho Silva, who believes she may have lost 15 relatives to the flood, including five nieces and nephews.\"There was nothing we could do. It was hell,\" she said in a telephone interview.Carvalho Silva took refuge in a neighbour's house on high ground with her husband and daughter, and watched the torrential rain carry away cars, tree branches and animals and tear apart the homes of friends and family.\"It's over. There's nothing. The water came down and swept everything away,\" said her husband, Sidney Silva.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Brazil landslides death toll rises"},{"date": "2011-03-30T11:28:45Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is considering offering financial support to Portugal to help its former colonial power avoid being sucked even deeper into its debt crisis.Brazilian president Dilma Rousseff said on Wednesday that her government was studying ways in which it could buy Portuguese government debt. Another option would be to give Portugal a cash injection by buying back some of the Brazilian government debt it currently owns.\"One of the possibilities is buying part of Portugal's sovereign debt,\" Rousseff told the Di\u00e1rio Econ\u00f3mico newspaper. \"We are also examining other alternatives such as early buyback of Brazilian bonds held by the Portuguese government.\"Brazil broke away from Portugal in 1822, but the countries enjoy close political and economic ties. According to the International Monetary Fund, the Brazilian economy is now almost 10 times larger than that of Portugal.Any lifeline from Brazil would be welcome for Portugal, whose debt costs have spiked to record highs this week. Its credit rating was lowered to the brink of \"junk\" status on Tuesday and many City economists believe a rescue package is becoming inevitable.\"With Portugal being one false step away from losing investment-grade status, it is only going to make it more difficult for them to fund themselves in the market and it is possible that this downgrade is the tipping point that leads to an EU bailout,\" said Gary Jenkins, head of fixed income research at Evolution Securities.But Jenkins was not convinced that Rousseff's suggestion, made during an official visit to Portugal, would actually result in financial support for the Lisbon government.Uwe Parpart, Cantor Fitzgerald's chief economist in Asia, agreed that Portugal was \"closer to having to go to Brussels, begging bowl in hand, and ask for a bailout\".On Tuesday, Rousseff's predecessor as president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, urged Portugal to resist a rescue package. \"Whenever the IMF tried to take care of countries' debts, it created more problems than solutions,\" he said.The yield, or effective interest rate, on Portuguese two-year government bonds rose to about 7.6% on Wednesday, closer to the 10-year bonds which broke through the 8% barrier this week.\"As the two-year yield jumps and catches up with the 10-year, Portugal is now priced to fail,\" Parpart said.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Portugal", "Brazil", "Dilma Rousseff", "European banks", "Europe", "World news", "Business", "Economics", "Global economy"], "title": "Brazil considers helping Portugal ease debt crisis"},{"date": "2011-03-08T00:01:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When I grew up in a middle-class family in Brazil, my parents expected me to be a good housewife and get a teaching degree in case I didn't marry and needed to work. They also expected me to remain a virgin until I married. It was not that my parents were especially conservative, they were typical.Women now have many more options. New careers are open for them, they have greater freedoms regarding their sexuality, they can avoid an unwanted pregnancy more easily. Unfortunately, these options are not equally available for all women, but they are much more widespread.I think the most important change is in the way women think of themselves. What was the privilege of a small group of rebellious women like myself became a great asset for large numbers of women of different social classes. They tend to see themselves as autonomous human beings who are free to decide about their lives and who have the right to be respected and treated without discrimination.Here again, progress is not uniform, and even very liberated women who live in egalitarian relationships with their partners may still face huge obstacles. I see several areas where progress has been slower.One is the beauty mandate that hangs over the heads even of very accomplished women. Plastic surgery is very common in Brazil. Another is the difficulty of sharing care work. When it comes to taking care of babies and infants, or sick and old parents, the burdens are still on the shoulders of individual women, who are rarely supported by their partners or social institutions. A third is domestic violence, a plague that haunts many women \u2013 especially those who are economically dependent of men. A fourth is the stigma and illegality still surrounding abortion, to which many women still have to resort.And finally, in political participation there has been some important progress \u2013 the president is now a woman \u2013 but it is still elusive for many women. Dilma Rousseff's election did not open the doors to women's participation in politics on equal terms, even though it was a remarkable achievement.", "tags": ["Global development", "Gender", "Brazil", "World news", "Women", "Life and style", "International Women's Day"], "title": "Life in Brazil on International Women's Day"},{"date": "2011-03-03T20:30:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "For those familiar with Latin American politics, the notion that Muammar Gaddafi had fled to Venezuela seemed absurd. Certainly, Ch\u00e1vez and other leftwing Latin American leaders have seemed embarrassed and uncertain how to respond to the events unfolding in Libya. But Ch\u00e1vez has not given explicit support and it is an awkward moment for many governments. In any case, Gaddafi has much better friends in Africa and had some good friends in London as well.It was interesting to see British Foreign Secretary William Hague bring Ch\u00e1vez briefly back to the centre of attention in Latin American politics. Because, for better or worse, Ch\u00e1vez is much less important in the region than he was a few years ago. And there is a new figure on the scene, now in charge of half of South America's population, who may be beginning to embody a new strategy for left-of-centre leaders in Latin America.In her first months as president of Brazil, Dilma Rousseff, former guerrilla and chosen successor to the wildly popular Lula, has begun to carve out her own style. She took a step back from her country's friendship with the government of Iran, and has set out to rein in public spending, something she thinks necessary to keep the country's economic boom going. Her strategy seems to be to maintain pragmatic centrist policies and forge ahead with fast growth, content that it has raised several tens of millions of people out of poverty in the last few years.For decades the leftwing strategy in Latin America, from Castro to the Sandinistas to Lula's early presidential campaigns, was to create a radical and alternative project outside of global capitalism and the \"imperialist\" west. With their economies booming and the US's so clearly faltering, many in Latin America are finding they can beat the west at its own game \u2013 and then use their increased power and wealth to pursue their goals at home and abroad. It's an approach reminiscent of China; and coincidentally, the boom in many countries comes largely from exporting commodities to China.In 2005, when Ch\u00e1vez led the openly confrontational campaign to bury George W Bush's Free Trade Agreement of the Americas \u2013 flanked by former Argentine soccer star Diego Maradona, no less \u2013 the world was a different place. The credit bubble was still expanding in the rich countries, the US was confidently and openly aggressive internationally, and was pushing a trade agreement it seemed they hadn't bothered to ask Latin Americans about first. Now, the US economy is in the dumps, its politics is beset by internal squabbling, and its leadership has been forced to humbly accept the limits of American power. Meanwhile, Latin American is rushing ahead \u2013 its economy is thought to have grown by about 6% last year \u2013 and is increasingly confident on the global stage.Latin leaders used to love to thumb their noses at the west: Ch\u00e1vez called Bush \"the devil\", Bolivia's Evo Morales joked about being included in the \"Axis of Evil\", and Lula famously said \u2013 to Gordon Brown's face \u2013 that the financial crisis and subsequent international misery was caused by \"blue-eyed bankers\". I suspect we will see less of this from Dilma Rousseff, who can carry on quietly confident that everyone knows in whose favour the balance of power is tilting. It's not yet clear if she will continue in the tradition of maintaining international alliances that infuriate Washington, but her move on Iran suggests she may not.Of course, Brazil's current path has its limitations. There is the risk of over-reliance on commodity exports and the death of industry. And posting big increases in GDP, while useful, has not magically solved the often shocking levels of inequality and social exclusion in the country. Many in the very different Spanish-speaking countries of Latin America, where no country has Brazil's shot at being a global power, remain committed to a much more radical approach. But no new solidly leftwing leaders are on the up at the moment, and there is certainly nothing of the kind on the horizon in Brazil. Here, where most people are better-off than they were a few years ago, the attitude seems to be: \"If it ain't broken, why fix it?\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Dilma Rousseff", "Venezuela", "Hugo Ch\u00e1vez", "Libya", "Muammar Gaddafi", "World news", "US foreign policy", "US economy", "Evo Morales", "Bolivia", "George Bush", "Africa", "Americas"], "title": "Dilma Rousseff moves Brazil to centre | Vincent Bevins"},{"date": "2011-02-22T14:00:18Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Imaneja is perhaps the best-loved of the Candombl\u00e9 orixas and her anniversary in February is celebrated up and down the Atlantic coast of Brazil.Candombl\u00e9 is the religion that the African slaves brought with them in the 16th century. Percussion music on atabaques \u2013 wooden drums covered in goatskin \u2013 underlies the ceremonies, accompanied by agog\u00f4 bells (like a tambourine) and a xequer\u00ea, which is a gourd strung with beads.The 12 orixas are a bit like Christian saints who act as your personal intermediary to the deity. You discover your own orixa by attending a session of throwing shells. The way they fall enables the local priest to tell you not only your orixa but your future as well.Imaneja is the queen of all the oceans, mother of the other orixas and protector of families and their homes. Many people wear white on Fridays, which is designated as her day of the week.Our Festa de Imaneja starts in the village square, where the women dance in their white-and-blue hooped dresses and the men move melodically in white tunics around a flower-decked boat carrying the image of the orixa. The procession moves on to the Catholic church where, in spite of the complete difference of religions, the local padre blesses Imaneja, her boat and the bowls of popcorn that are also intrinsic to the ceremony. He sprinkles holy water on everyone, which both refreshes the spirit and cools the perspiring crowd.There is no conflict between religions, the African drums play at the church door and the crowd packs in to pray and be blessed by a priest.As evening comes, the whole ensemble moves down the hill to the fishermen's beach where there's more dancing and a liberal amount of beer drinking from the adjacent bar. At an auspicious moment, the Mother of Saint boards a fishing boat and takes the image of Imaneja and her boat and flowers to be launched beyond the coral reef into the Atlantic waves.It's then the villagers turn to throw their white and blue flowers into the sea and to light candles on the beach.As with most Brazilian events, the evening \u2013 or more often the early morning after \u2013 finishes with parties at almost every bar along the beach \u2013 at some of which more images of Imaneja in boats are floated off eastwards.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Religion", "Brazil holidays"], "title": "Brazil: Atlantic goddess brings religions together"},{"date": "2011-06-14T13:19:01Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "As every editor knows, a writer should never inflict too many numbers on the reader. Rankings, dates, figures, indexes and percentages can be off-putting \u2013 if not a downright bore. With this in mind, here is a little collection, gleaned recently from the Brazilian press, which may help to decipher a few local realities.Let's start with 30,000. That's the number of bills pending in Brazil's congress, the legislative body in the capital Brasilia, composed of 513 deputies and 81 senators. Among these dormant bills are 975 constitutional amendments awaiting ratification. The oldest has been pending for 16 years. There are also 2,180 draft laws that have been vetoed by successive presidents. Technically, their fate should have been decided within 30 days of the veto.And that's without the 50 international treaties, one of which, ratified last month, was dated 1994. Were the Brazilian congress to examine just these bills, it would take a century at the current pace. The federal delegates have mostly abandoned their prerogative of controlling the president's accounts. No fewer than 12 budgets are still awaiting debate, the oldest of which dates back to 1990.The Brazilian congress has a singular talent for indecision. Split into numerous parties, it is stifled by bureaucracy, and subject to clientelism.So the executive legislates, not the legislature. The constitution authorises the head of state to take \"provisional measures\", and 1,127 of these have been taken over the last 22 years, an average of one a week. Itamar Franco, a former Brazilian president, recently concluded: \"We're pathetic legislators.\"Brasilia has become one of the most expensive cities in the world, with S\u00e3o Paulo and Rio de Janeiro close behind. In Buenos Aires commuters can buy six underground tickets for the price of one in Brasilia.\u00a0The list of goods and services costing more in Brazil than elsewhere includes clothes, shoes, medicines, toys, perfumes and restaurants. The Big Mac is the fourth most expensive in the world. A croissant in a cafe costs five times more in Brasilia than in Paris, a pizza half as much again as in London, and a Japanese car two and a half times more than in the US.The high cost of living is mainly due to the over-valued real, which has risen 110% against the dollar in eight years. Other factors, such as heavy import duties, high labour costs, saturated infrastructure, and the persistence of oligopolies, don't help.Thanks to the strong currency, Brazilians travel more and use the opportunity to stuff their luggage with goods purchased in the US or in Europe. Foreign travel now equates to massive shopping sprees.S\u00e3o Paulo alone counts 21 billionaires, in dollar terms. According to Forbes magazine, which tracks the geographic location of wealthy individuals, S\u00e3o Paulo ranks sixth, before Los Angeles and Tokyo. A sign of the enrichment of the Brazilian elite: the city acquired seven new billionaires this year, privileged people whose assets doubled in the last 12 months. Rio de Janeiro \"only\" has three billionaires, but one of them, the entrepreneur Eike Batista, is the richest man in the country and the eighth-richest in the world.Sadly, there are more modest figures too, such as the percentage of illiterate adults who have learned to read and write over the last 10 years: 7%. Illiteracy fell from 13.6% to 9.6% of the population between 2000 and 2010, but mainly among those under 20 who benefitted from the country's education policy. Progress remains marginal among adults.The oldest living person in the world is also Brazilian, 114-year-old Maria Gomes Valentim, who recently entered the Guinness Book of Records. She was born only eight years before the abolition of slavery in Brazil, married in 1913, was widowed in 1946, and has spent her life in a small town in Minas Gerais. \"Grandmother Quita\", as she is known, attributes her longevity to her daily breakfast of bread and fruit. This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil"], "title": "Brazil, figuratively speaking"},{"date": "2011-06-14T13:19:01Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "As every editor knows, a writer should never inflict too many numbers on the reader. Rankings, dates, figures, indexes and percentages can be off-putting \u2013 if not a downright bore. With this in mind, here is a little collection, gleaned recently from the Brazilian press, which may help to decipher a few local realities.Let's start with 30,000. That's the number of bills pending in Brazil's congress, the legislative body in the capital Brasilia, composed of 513 deputies and 81 senators. Among these dormant bills are 975 constitutional amendments awaiting ratification. The oldest has been pending for 16 years. There are also 2,180 draft laws that have been vetoed by successive presidents. Technically, their fate should have been decided within 30 days of the veto.And that's without the 50 international treaties, one of which, ratified last month, was dated 1994. Were the Brazilian congress to examine just these bills, it would take a century at the current pace. The federal delegates have mostly abandoned their prerogative of controlling the president's accounts. No fewer than 12 budgets are still awaiting debate, the oldest of which dates back to 1990.The Brazilian congress has a singular talent for indecision. Split into numerous parties, it is stifled by bureaucracy, and subject to clientelism.So the executive legislates, not the legislature. The constitution authorises the head of state to take \"provisional measures\", and 1,127 of these have been taken over the last 22 years, an average of one a week. Itamar Franco, a former Brazilian president, recently concluded: \"We're pathetic legislators.\"Brasilia has become one of the most expensive cities in the world, with S\u00e3o Paulo and Rio de Janeiro close behind. In Buenos Aires commuters can buy six underground tickets for the price of one in Brasilia.\u00a0The list of goods and services costing more in Brazil than elsewhere includes clothes, shoes, medicines, toys, perfumes and restaurants. The Big Mac is the fourth most expensive in the world. A croissant in a cafe costs five times more in Brasilia than in Paris, a pizza half as much again as in London, and a Japanese car two and a half times more than in the US.The high cost of living is mainly due to the over-valued real, which has risen 110% against the dollar in eight years. Other factors, such as heavy import duties, high labour costs, saturated infrastructure, and the persistence of oligopolies, don't help.Thanks to the strong currency, Brazilians travel more and use the opportunity to stuff their luggage with goods purchased in the US or in Europe. Foreign travel now equates to massive shopping sprees.S\u00e3o Paulo alone counts 21 billionaires, in dollar terms. According to Forbes magazine, which tracks the geographic location of wealthy individuals, S\u00e3o Paulo ranks sixth, before Los Angeles and Tokyo. A sign of the enrichment of the Brazilian elite: the city acquired seven new billionaires this year, privileged people whose assets doubled in the last 12 months. Rio de Janeiro \"only\" has three billionaires, but one of them, the entrepreneur Eike Batista, is the richest man in the country and the eighth-richest in the world.Sadly, there are more modest figures too, such as the percentage of illiterate adults who have learned to read and write over the last 10 years: 7%. Illiteracy fell from 13.6% to 9.6% of the population between 2000 and 2010, but mainly among those under 20 who benefitted from the country's education policy. Progress remains marginal among adults.The oldest living person in the world is also Brazilian, 114-year-old Maria Gomes Valentim, who recently entered the Guinness Book of Records. She was born only eight years before the abolition of slavery in Brazil, married in 1913, was widowed in 1946, and has spent her life in a small town in Minas Gerais. \"Grandmother Quita\", as she is known, attributes her longevity to her daily breakfast of bread and fruit. This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil"], "title": "Brazil, figuratively speaking"},{"date": "2011-06-07T13:10:17Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "President Dilma Rousseff has launched an ambitious plan, Brazil Without Misery, which aims to eradicate dire poverty by 2014.Just over 16 million Brazilians \u2013 almost a tenth of the population \u2013 live in extreme poverty, with less than $45 a month. Half of them are under 19, 40% under 14. Almost two-thirds live in the Nordeste region and about one in five is illiterate. Of the 30 million living in the countryside, one in four is \"very poor\".During the election campaign, Rousseff promised to end poverty. Announcing the plan, she said it would be her top priority in her term of office.\"We can't forget that the most permanent, challenging and harrowing crisis is having chronic poverty in this country,\" Rousseff said. The government plans to launch an offensive through welfare payments, education, jobs, healthcare, access to public services, improved infrastructure and rural development.First, the government will be giving slightly more money to the poorest people, broadening the scope of the bolsa familia (conditional cash transfer) initiated by Rousseff's predecessor, Lula da Silva, which benefits 12 million poor or very poor families. Now up to five children per family \u2013 formerly it was three \u2013 qualify for benefits, embracing a further 1.3 million children. Monthly payments to the mother of each family will range from $22 to $200.Above all, by the end of 2013 the government wants bolsa payments to reach 800,000 more families, who qualify for the welfare payments but do not receive it due to geographical isolation, poor information or administrative shortcomings. \"We need to change the mindset that it is up to a poor person to come to the state, and ensure that the state reaches out to the poor person,\" social development minister Tereza Campello said. Officials had to change their approach, identify needy families, go to homes and take action.Since its launch in 2003 the bolsa familia scheme has enabled tens of millions of Brazilians to get enough to eat, live a little better, and even discover the joys of consumption and credit. But more needed to be done, she said. \"A country that has grown like Brazil can't be content with just having a big social programme,\" Campello emphasised.In the second part of its plan, the government aims to improve access to public services, particularly education, the health service, running water, electricity and sewerage for those most in need. Almost half of very poor rural families have neither running water nor a well, and more than half of them have neither a sewer connection nor a septic tank.\"Productive inclusiveness\", the third and last part of the scheme, aims to give the poor the economic means to lift themselves permanently out of poverty, through job opportunities, vocational training and micro-credit. Brazil lacks the necessary labour for low-qualification jobs, so between now and 2014 some 1.7 million urban workers will be offered training. Another goal is a fourfold increase in the number of poor farmers receiving state subsidies and guidance from farm engineers.\"We want to eradicate extreme poverty by 2014 and make Brazil the first developing country to achieve the first of the UN millennium development goals,\" Campello said.This story originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Global development"], "title": "Brazil declares war on 'chronic poverty'"},{"date": "2011-06-14T13:19:01Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "As every editor knows, a writer should never inflict too many numbers on the reader. Rankings, dates, figures, indexes and percentages can be off-putting \u2013 if not a downright bore. With this in mind, here is a little collection, gleaned recently from the Brazilian press, which may help to decipher a few local realities.Let's start with 30,000. That's the number of bills pending in Brazil's congress, the legislative body in the capital Brasilia, composed of 513 deputies and 81 senators. Among these dormant bills are 975 constitutional amendments awaiting ratification. The oldest has been pending for 16 years. There are also 2,180 draft laws that have been vetoed by successive presidents. Technically, their fate should have been decided within 30 days of the veto.And that's without the 50 international treaties, one of which, ratified last month, was dated 1994. Were the Brazilian congress to examine just these bills, it would take a century at the current pace. The federal delegates have mostly abandoned their prerogative of controlling the president's accounts. No fewer than 12 budgets are still awaiting debate, the oldest of which dates back to 1990.The Brazilian congress has a singular talent for indecision. Split into numerous parties, it is stifled by bureaucracy, and subject to clientelism.So the executive legislates, not the legislature. The constitution authorises the head of state to take \"provisional measures\", and 1,127 of these have been taken over the last 22 years, an average of one a week. Itamar Franco, a former Brazilian president, recently concluded: \"We're pathetic legislators.\"Brasilia has become one of the most expensive cities in the world, with S\u00e3o Paulo and Rio de Janeiro close behind. In Buenos Aires commuters can buy six underground tickets for the price of one in Brasilia.\u00a0The list of goods and services costing more in Brazil than elsewhere includes clothes, shoes, medicines, toys, perfumes and restaurants. The Big Mac is the fourth most expensive in the world. A croissant in a cafe costs five times more in Brasilia than in Paris, a pizza half as much again as in London, and a Japanese car two and a half times more than in the US.The high cost of living is mainly due to the over-valued real, which has risen 110% against the dollar in eight years. Other factors, such as heavy import duties, high labour costs, saturated infrastructure, and the persistence of oligopolies, don't help.Thanks to the strong currency, Brazilians travel more and use the opportunity to stuff their luggage with goods purchased in the US or in Europe. Foreign travel now equates to massive shopping sprees.S\u00e3o Paulo alone counts 21 billionaires, in dollar terms. According to Forbes magazine, which tracks the geographic location of wealthy individuals, S\u00e3o Paulo ranks sixth, before Los Angeles and Tokyo. A sign of the enrichment of the Brazilian elite: the city acquired seven new billionaires this year, privileged people whose assets doubled in the last 12 months. Rio de Janeiro \"only\" has three billionaires, but one of them, the entrepreneur Eike Batista, is the richest man in the country and the eighth-richest in the world.Sadly, there are more modest figures too, such as the percentage of illiterate adults who have learned to read and write over the last 10 years: 7%. Illiteracy fell from 13.6% to 9.6% of the population between 2000 and 2010, but mainly among those under 20 who benefitted from the country's education policy. Progress remains marginal among adults.The oldest living person in the world is also Brazilian, 114-year-old Maria Gomes Valentim, who recently entered the Guinness Book of Records. She was born only eight years before the abolition of slavery in Brazil, married in 1913, was widowed in 1946, and has spent her life in a small town in Minas Gerais. \"Grandmother Quita\", as she is known, attributes her longevity to her daily breakfast of bread and fruit. This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil"], "title": "Brazil, figuratively speaking"},{"date": "2011-06-07T13:10:17Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "President Dilma Rousseff has launched an ambitious plan, Brazil Without Misery, which aims to eradicate dire poverty by 2014.Just over 16 million Brazilians \u2013 almost a tenth of the population \u2013 live in extreme poverty, with less than $45 a month. Half of them are under 19, 40% under 14. Almost two-thirds live in the Nordeste region and about one in five is illiterate. Of the 30 million living in the countryside, one in four is \"very poor\".During the election campaign, Rousseff promised to end poverty. Announcing the plan, she said it would be her top priority in her term of office.\"We can't forget that the most permanent, challenging and harrowing crisis is having chronic poverty in this country,\" Rousseff said. The government plans to launch an offensive through welfare payments, education, jobs, healthcare, access to public services, improved infrastructure and rural development.First, the government will be giving slightly more money to the poorest people, broadening the scope of the bolsa familia (conditional cash transfer) initiated by Rousseff's predecessor, Lula da Silva, which benefits 12 million poor or very poor families. Now up to five children per family \u2013 formerly it was three \u2013 qualify for benefits, embracing a further 1.3 million children. Monthly payments to the mother of each family will range from $22 to $200.Above all, by the end of 2013 the government wants bolsa payments to reach 800,000 more families, who qualify for the welfare payments but do not receive it due to geographical isolation, poor information or administrative shortcomings. \"We need to change the mindset that it is up to a poor person to come to the state, and ensure that the state reaches out to the poor person,\" social development minister Tereza Campello said. Officials had to change their approach, identify needy families, go to homes and take action.Since its launch in 2003 the bolsa familia scheme has enabled tens of millions of Brazilians to get enough to eat, live a little better, and even discover the joys of consumption and credit. But more needed to be done, she said. \"A country that has grown like Brazil can't be content with just having a big social programme,\" Campello emphasised.In the second part of its plan, the government aims to improve access to public services, particularly education, the health service, running water, electricity and sewerage for those most in need. Almost half of very poor rural families have neither running water nor a well, and more than half of them have neither a sewer connection nor a septic tank.\"Productive inclusiveness\", the third and last part of the scheme, aims to give the poor the economic means to lift themselves permanently out of poverty, through job opportunities, vocational training and micro-credit. Brazil lacks the necessary labour for low-qualification jobs, so between now and 2014 some 1.7 million urban workers will be offered training. Another goal is a fourfold increase in the number of poor farmers receiving state subsidies and guidance from farm engineers.\"We want to eradicate extreme poverty by 2014 and make Brazil the first developing country to achieve the first of the UN millennium development goals,\" Campello said.This story originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Global development"], "title": "Brazil declares war on 'chronic poverty'"},{"date": "2011-05-27T11:34:56Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Less than one year ago, the Brazilian government stood proudly on the world stage as a country that would not allow development to destroy its rainforests and announced the lowest rate of Amazon deforestation on record. Brazil's newly elected and first female president, Dilma Rousseff, promised to prevent any changes in law that would allow more deforestation or give amnesty to environmental criminals. She vowed to uphold the previous government's commitments to reducing deforestation by 80% by 2020. Yet, only a few months later, the gloss has worn off and the promises look shaky. Forest loss is climbing again and millions of hectares are on the chopping block.According to the latest Brazilian governmental figures, deforestation in the Amazon has spiked over the last two months \u2013 an increase of more than 500% compared with the same timeframe last year. Due to clouds and rain, which prevented satellite monitoring, the state of Para that boasted the highest rates of forest loss in 2010 was largely not included in the analysis. Therefore these figures may be just the tip of the deforestation iceberg.The Brazilian environmental minister, Izabella Teixeira, announced a \"crisis team\" and mobilised the Environmental Protection Agency and additional police to tackle what she called an \"atypical\" trend. However, the heart of the crisis beats in Brasilia.Brazil is considering major changes to the forest code \u2013 the main law that protects the rainforest. If these changes go though they could let hundreds of forest criminals off the hook, and massively expand the amount of forest under threat from the chainsaws. The changes would threaten the obligation for landowners to leave 80% of their property forested and would grant impunity for those that have previously illegally deforested. This is the fuel that is driving the substantial increase in deforestation. Farmers are rushing to cut down forests, expecting that the new law will protect them from being punished for their past crimes. They're also gambling that the new rules will allow them to cut down more forest in the future, and they're getting started before the ink is even dry.The deaths earlier this week of leading rainforest defenders Jos\u00e9 Cl\u00e1udio Ribeiro da Silva and his wife, Maria do Esp\u00edrito Santo was a tragic reminder of what can happen when impunity is legitimised.The vote on changes to the code in the Congress this week and the subsequent Senate vote are strongly influenced by sections of the agribusiness lobby. Yet soya export giants identify forest protection as a key part of their ability to capture international markets. The Brazilian scientific community and 10 former Brazilian environment ministers point to such changes driving considerable biodiversity loss and climate impacts, and encourage the use of millions of hectares of under-utilised and degraded lands as a clear solution to the need to increase food production.The spotlight rests on president Rousseff. If she allows the forest code to change, she will capitulate to a small, yet vocal, vested interest group and will break the very promises which ensured her presidency. The Brazilian success story of the 21st century could be undone on the eve of Brazil hosting the world at the Earth Summit (Rio+20) in 2012.Brazil's global reputation in the fight against deforestation and climate change is at stake. President Rousseff must stop the chainsaws by keeping the current forest laws intact and getting tough with those who are clearing the rainforest right now.\u2022 Paulo Adario is the head of Greenpeace's Amazon campaign\u2022 This article was amended on 5 March 2012. The original referred to Dilma Rousseff as Roussef throughout. The has been corrected.", "tags": ["Amazon rainforest", "Trees and forests", "Deforestation", "Conservation", "Environment", "Greenpeace", "Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Brazil risks protection record by proposing changes to forest code | Paulo Adario"},{"date": "2011-06-14T13:19:01Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "As every editor knows, a writer should never inflict too many numbers on the reader. Rankings, dates, figures, indexes and percentages can be off-putting \u2013 if not a downright bore. With this in mind, here is a little collection, gleaned recently from the Brazilian press, which may help to decipher a few local realities.Let's start with 30,000. That's the number of bills pending in Brazil's congress, the legislative body in the capital Brasilia, composed of 513 deputies and 81 senators. Among these dormant bills are 975 constitutional amendments awaiting ratification. The oldest has been pending for 16 years. There are also 2,180 draft laws that have been vetoed by successive presidents. Technically, their fate should have been decided within 30 days of the veto.And that's without the 50 international treaties, one of which, ratified last month, was dated 1994. Were the Brazilian congress to examine just these bills, it would take a century at the current pace. The federal delegates have mostly abandoned their prerogative of controlling the president's accounts. No fewer than 12 budgets are still awaiting debate, the oldest of which dates back to 1990.The Brazilian congress has a singular talent for indecision. Split into numerous parties, it is stifled by bureaucracy, and subject to clientelism.So the executive legislates, not the legislature. The constitution authorises the head of state to take \"provisional measures\", and 1,127 of these have been taken over the last 22 years, an average of one a week. Itamar Franco, a former Brazilian president, recently concluded: \"We're pathetic legislators.\"Brasilia has become one of the most expensive cities in the world, with S\u00e3o Paulo and Rio de Janeiro close behind. In Buenos Aires commuters can buy six underground tickets for the price of one in Brasilia.\u00a0The list of goods and services costing more in Brazil than elsewhere includes clothes, shoes, medicines, toys, perfumes and restaurants. The Big Mac is the fourth most expensive in the world. A croissant in a cafe costs five times more in Brasilia than in Paris, a pizza half as much again as in London, and a Japanese car two and a half times more than in the US.The high cost of living is mainly due to the over-valued real, which has risen 110% against the dollar in eight years. Other factors, such as heavy import duties, high labour costs, saturated infrastructure, and the persistence of oligopolies, don't help.Thanks to the strong currency, Brazilians travel more and use the opportunity to stuff their luggage with goods purchased in the US or in Europe. Foreign travel now equates to massive shopping sprees.S\u00e3o Paulo alone counts 21 billionaires, in dollar terms. According to Forbes magazine, which tracks the geographic location of wealthy individuals, S\u00e3o Paulo ranks sixth, before Los Angeles and Tokyo. A sign of the enrichment of the Brazilian elite: the city acquired seven new billionaires this year, privileged people whose assets doubled in the last 12 months. Rio de Janeiro \"only\" has three billionaires, but one of them, the entrepreneur Eike Batista, is the richest man in the country and the eighth-richest in the world.Sadly, there are more modest figures too, such as the percentage of illiterate adults who have learned to read and write over the last 10 years: 7%. Illiteracy fell from 13.6% to 9.6% of the population between 2000 and 2010, but mainly among those under 20 who benefitted from the country's education policy. Progress remains marginal among adults.The oldest living person in the world is also Brazilian, 114-year-old Maria Gomes Valentim, who recently entered the Guinness Book of Records. She was born only eight years before the abolition of slavery in Brazil, married in 1913, was widowed in 1946, and has spent her life in a small town in Minas Gerais. \"Grandmother Quita\", as she is known, attributes her longevity to her daily breakfast of bread and fruit. This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil"], "title": "Brazil, figuratively speaking"},{"date": "2011-06-07T13:10:17Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "President Dilma Rousseff has launched an ambitious plan, Brazil Without Misery, which aims to eradicate dire poverty by 2014.Just over 16 million Brazilians \u2013 almost a tenth of the population \u2013 live in extreme poverty, with less than $45 a month. Half of them are under 19, 40% under 14. Almost two-thirds live in the Nordeste region and about one in five is illiterate. Of the 30 million living in the countryside, one in four is \"very poor\".During the election campaign, Rousseff promised to end poverty. Announcing the plan, she said it would be her top priority in her term of office.\"We can't forget that the most permanent, challenging and harrowing crisis is having chronic poverty in this country,\" Rousseff said. The government plans to launch an offensive through welfare payments, education, jobs, healthcare, access to public services, improved infrastructure and rural development.First, the government will be giving slightly more money to the poorest people, broadening the scope of the bolsa familia (conditional cash transfer) initiated by Rousseff's predecessor, Lula da Silva, which benefits 12 million poor or very poor families. Now up to five children per family \u2013 formerly it was three \u2013 qualify for benefits, embracing a further 1.3 million children. Monthly payments to the mother of each family will range from $22 to $200.Above all, by the end of 2013 the government wants bolsa payments to reach 800,000 more families, who qualify for the welfare payments but do not receive it due to geographical isolation, poor information or administrative shortcomings. \"We need to change the mindset that it is up to a poor person to come to the state, and ensure that the state reaches out to the poor person,\" social development minister Tereza Campello said. Officials had to change their approach, identify needy families, go to homes and take action.Since its launch in 2003 the bolsa familia scheme has enabled tens of millions of Brazilians to get enough to eat, live a little better, and even discover the joys of consumption and credit. But more needed to be done, she said. \"A country that has grown like Brazil can't be content with just having a big social programme,\" Campello emphasised.In the second part of its plan, the government aims to improve access to public services, particularly education, the health service, running water, electricity and sewerage for those most in need. Almost half of very poor rural families have neither running water nor a well, and more than half of them have neither a sewer connection nor a septic tank.\"Productive inclusiveness\", the third and last part of the scheme, aims to give the poor the economic means to lift themselves permanently out of poverty, through job opportunities, vocational training and micro-credit. Brazil lacks the necessary labour for low-qualification jobs, so between now and 2014 some 1.7 million urban workers will be offered training. Another goal is a fourfold increase in the number of poor farmers receiving state subsidies and guidance from farm engineers.\"We want to eradicate extreme poverty by 2014 and make Brazil the first developing country to achieve the first of the UN millennium development goals,\" Campello said.This story originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Global development"], "title": "Brazil declares war on 'chronic poverty'"},{"date": "2011-05-27T11:34:56Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Less than one year ago, the Brazilian government stood proudly on the world stage as a country that would not allow development to destroy its rainforests and announced the lowest rate of Amazon deforestation on record. Brazil's newly elected and first female president, Dilma Rousseff, promised to prevent any changes in law that would allow more deforestation or give amnesty to environmental criminals. She vowed to uphold the previous government's commitments to reducing deforestation by 80% by 2020. Yet, only a few months later, the gloss has worn off and the promises look shaky. Forest loss is climbing again and millions of hectares are on the chopping block.According to the latest Brazilian governmental figures, deforestation in the Amazon has spiked over the last two months \u2013 an increase of more than 500% compared with the same timeframe last year. Due to clouds and rain, which prevented satellite monitoring, the state of Para that boasted the highest rates of forest loss in 2010 was largely not included in the analysis. Therefore these figures may be just the tip of the deforestation iceberg.The Brazilian environmental minister, Izabella Teixeira, announced a \"crisis team\" and mobilised the Environmental Protection Agency and additional police to tackle what she called an \"atypical\" trend. However, the heart of the crisis beats in Brasilia.Brazil is considering major changes to the forest code \u2013 the main law that protects the rainforest. If these changes go though they could let hundreds of forest criminals off the hook, and massively expand the amount of forest under threat from the chainsaws. The changes would threaten the obligation for landowners to leave 80% of their property forested and would grant impunity for those that have previously illegally deforested. This is the fuel that is driving the substantial increase in deforestation. Farmers are rushing to cut down forests, expecting that the new law will protect them from being punished for their past crimes. They're also gambling that the new rules will allow them to cut down more forest in the future, and they're getting started before the ink is even dry.The deaths earlier this week of leading rainforest defenders Jos\u00e9 Cl\u00e1udio Ribeiro da Silva and his wife, Maria do Esp\u00edrito Santo was a tragic reminder of what can happen when impunity is legitimised.The vote on changes to the code in the Congress this week and the subsequent Senate vote are strongly influenced by sections of the agribusiness lobby. Yet soya export giants identify forest protection as a key part of their ability to capture international markets. The Brazilian scientific community and 10 former Brazilian environment ministers point to such changes driving considerable biodiversity loss and climate impacts, and encourage the use of millions of hectares of under-utilised and degraded lands as a clear solution to the need to increase food production.The spotlight rests on president Rousseff. If she allows the forest code to change, she will capitulate to a small, yet vocal, vested interest group and will break the very promises which ensured her presidency. The Brazilian success story of the 21st century could be undone on the eve of Brazil hosting the world at the Earth Summit (Rio+20) in 2012.Brazil's global reputation in the fight against deforestation and climate change is at stake. President Rousseff must stop the chainsaws by keeping the current forest laws intact and getting tough with those who are clearing the rainforest right now.\u2022 Paulo Adario is the head of Greenpeace's Amazon campaign\u2022 This article was amended on 5 March 2012. The original referred to Dilma Rousseff as Roussef throughout. The has been corrected.", "tags": ["Amazon rainforest", "Trees and forests", "Deforestation", "Conservation", "Environment", "Greenpeace", "Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Brazil risks protection record by proposing changes to forest code | Paulo Adario"},{"date": "2011-05-20T10:59:05Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Hundreds of environmental protection officers are being deployed in the Brazilian Amazon after government satellites detected a sudden, unexpected surge in deforestation.On Wednesday, Brazil's environment minister Izabella Teixeira announced the creation of a \"crisis cabinet\" to crackdown on illegal logging in the world's largest tropical rainforest, after satellites registered a 27% hike in Amazon deforestation between August 2010 and April this year compared with the previous year.\"The order is to suffocate environmental crime,\" said Teixeira, following the release of images that showed at least 1,848 sq km of rainforest had been destroyed, compared with 1,455 sq km a year earlier.Satellite data painted an even more disturbing picture of deforestation in March and April this year when nearly 593 sq km of forest were lost \u2013 an increase of over 470% compared with the same period in 2010.Officials said the most dramatic situation was in the soy-growing state of Mato Grosso, where farmers are said to be using tractors and giant chains to rip up vast tracts of native forest.Brazil's environmental protection agency, Ibama, this week vowed to launch 200 operations in the region by the end of the year, with support from armed federal police operatives. Illegal cattle and timber would be seized, it said.This week's announcement comes after successive years in which Amazon deforestation fell dramatically. Last December Teixeira publicly celebrated reaching \"the lowest level of deforestation in the history of Amazonia\".On Wednesday, however, Teixeira admitted the sudden reversal was \"scary\" and \"atypical\". \"Until this deforestation is reduced, none [of our agents] will leave the field,\" she said.Brazil's environment minister said it was too early to know what had caused the sudden spike in destruction.But many environmentalists are convinced it is linked to an ongoing and highly controversial debate over changes to Brazil's forest code that Amazon farmers and ranchers hope will enable them to expand their properties, and boost economic development.Under the new proposals, the amount of rainforest that Amazon landowners are required to protect, currently set at 80%, could be reduced.Andre Muggiati, an Amazon-based campaigner for environmental group Greenpeace, said anticipation of such changes had sparked a \"deforestation frenzy\". Many ranchers and deforesters were convinced they would be forgiven for newly razed areas, he said.\"They are opening large areas right now and it is not even deforestation season because it is raining in the Amazon region,\" he said.\"If the bill is approved then we are going to have the largest deforestation [levels] in the Amazon and in Brazil in general in many years this year.\"\"It looked like the country was going one way \u2013 a good way for forest conservation \u2013 meeting targets, carbon emission reduction. We were really doing fine. But we decided to take a U-turn and go the other way. It is really bad what is happening,\" Muggiati added. \"The country is going backwards in terms of forest conservation, definitely.\"Brazil's Congress is expected to vote on changes to the forest code by the end of this month.", "tags": ["Deforestation", "Conservation", "Trees and forests", "Environment", "Brazil", "World news", "Amazon rainforest"], "title": "Brazil forms 'crisis cabinet' following unexpected deforestation surge"},{"date": "2011-06-14T13:19:01Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "As every editor knows, a writer should never inflict too many numbers on the reader. Rankings, dates, figures, indexes and percentages can be off-putting \u2013 if not a downright bore. With this in mind, here is a little collection, gleaned recently from the Brazilian press, which may help to decipher a few local realities.Let's start with 30,000. That's the number of bills pending in Brazil's congress, the legislative body in the capital Brasilia, composed of 513 deputies and 81 senators. Among these dormant bills are 975 constitutional amendments awaiting ratification. The oldest has been pending for 16 years. There are also 2,180 draft laws that have been vetoed by successive presidents. Technically, their fate should have been decided within 30 days of the veto.And that's without the 50 international treaties, one of which, ratified last month, was dated 1994. Were the Brazilian congress to examine just these bills, it would take a century at the current pace. The federal delegates have mostly abandoned their prerogative of controlling the president's accounts. No fewer than 12 budgets are still awaiting debate, the oldest of which dates back to 1990.The Brazilian congress has a singular talent for indecision. Split into numerous parties, it is stifled by bureaucracy, and subject to clientelism.So the executive legislates, not the legislature. The constitution authorises the head of state to take \"provisional measures\", and 1,127 of these have been taken over the last 22 years, an average of one a week. Itamar Franco, a former Brazilian president, recently concluded: \"We're pathetic legislators.\"Brasilia has become one of the most expensive cities in the world, with S\u00e3o Paulo and Rio de Janeiro close behind. In Buenos Aires commuters can buy six underground tickets for the price of one in Brasilia.\u00a0The list of goods and services costing more in Brazil than elsewhere includes clothes, shoes, medicines, toys, perfumes and restaurants. The Big Mac is the fourth most expensive in the world. A croissant in a cafe costs five times more in Brasilia than in Paris, a pizza half as much again as in London, and a Japanese car two and a half times more than in the US.The high cost of living is mainly due to the over-valued real, which has risen 110% against the dollar in eight years. Other factors, such as heavy import duties, high labour costs, saturated infrastructure, and the persistence of oligopolies, don't help.Thanks to the strong currency, Brazilians travel more and use the opportunity to stuff their luggage with goods purchased in the US or in Europe. Foreign travel now equates to massive shopping sprees.S\u00e3o Paulo alone counts 21 billionaires, in dollar terms. According to Forbes magazine, which tracks the geographic location of wealthy individuals, S\u00e3o Paulo ranks sixth, before Los Angeles and Tokyo. A sign of the enrichment of the Brazilian elite: the city acquired seven new billionaires this year, privileged people whose assets doubled in the last 12 months. Rio de Janeiro \"only\" has three billionaires, but one of them, the entrepreneur Eike Batista, is the richest man in the country and the eighth-richest in the world.Sadly, there are more modest figures too, such as the percentage of illiterate adults who have learned to read and write over the last 10 years: 7%. Illiteracy fell from 13.6% to 9.6% of the population between 2000 and 2010, but mainly among those under 20 who benefitted from the country's education policy. Progress remains marginal among adults.The oldest living person in the world is also Brazilian, 114-year-old Maria Gomes Valentim, who recently entered the Guinness Book of Records. She was born only eight years before the abolition of slavery in Brazil, married in 1913, was widowed in 1946, and has spent her life in a small town in Minas Gerais. \"Grandmother Quita\", as she is known, attributes her longevity to her daily breakfast of bread and fruit. This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil"], "title": "Brazil, figuratively speaking"},{"date": "2011-06-07T13:10:17Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "President Dilma Rousseff has launched an ambitious plan, Brazil Without Misery, which aims to eradicate dire poverty by 2014.Just over 16 million Brazilians \u2013 almost a tenth of the population \u2013 live in extreme poverty, with less than $45 a month. Half of them are under 19, 40% under 14. Almost two-thirds live in the Nordeste region and about one in five is illiterate. Of the 30 million living in the countryside, one in four is \"very poor\".During the election campaign, Rousseff promised to end poverty. Announcing the plan, she said it would be her top priority in her term of office.\"We can't forget that the most permanent, challenging and harrowing crisis is having chronic poverty in this country,\" Rousseff said. The government plans to launch an offensive through welfare payments, education, jobs, healthcare, access to public services, improved infrastructure and rural development.First, the government will be giving slightly more money to the poorest people, broadening the scope of the bolsa familia (conditional cash transfer) initiated by Rousseff's predecessor, Lula da Silva, which benefits 12 million poor or very poor families. Now up to five children per family \u2013 formerly it was three \u2013 qualify for benefits, embracing a further 1.3 million children. Monthly payments to the mother of each family will range from $22 to $200.Above all, by the end of 2013 the government wants bolsa payments to reach 800,000 more families, who qualify for the welfare payments but do not receive it due to geographical isolation, poor information or administrative shortcomings. \"We need to change the mindset that it is up to a poor person to come to the state, and ensure that the state reaches out to the poor person,\" social development minister Tereza Campello said. Officials had to change their approach, identify needy families, go to homes and take action.Since its launch in 2003 the bolsa familia scheme has enabled tens of millions of Brazilians to get enough to eat, live a little better, and even discover the joys of consumption and credit. But more needed to be done, she said. \"A country that has grown like Brazil can't be content with just having a big social programme,\" Campello emphasised.In the second part of its plan, the government aims to improve access to public services, particularly education, the health service, running water, electricity and sewerage for those most in need. Almost half of very poor rural families have neither running water nor a well, and more than half of them have neither a sewer connection nor a septic tank.\"Productive inclusiveness\", the third and last part of the scheme, aims to give the poor the economic means to lift themselves permanently out of poverty, through job opportunities, vocational training and micro-credit. Brazil lacks the necessary labour for low-qualification jobs, so between now and 2014 some 1.7 million urban workers will be offered training. Another goal is a fourfold increase in the number of poor farmers receiving state subsidies and guidance from farm engineers.\"We want to eradicate extreme poverty by 2014 and make Brazil the first developing country to achieve the first of the UN millennium development goals,\" Campello said.This story originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Global development"], "title": "Brazil declares war on 'chronic poverty'"},{"date": "2011-05-27T11:34:56Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Less than one year ago, the Brazilian government stood proudly on the world stage as a country that would not allow development to destroy its rainforests and announced the lowest rate of Amazon deforestation on record. Brazil's newly elected and first female president, Dilma Rousseff, promised to prevent any changes in law that would allow more deforestation or give amnesty to environmental criminals. She vowed to uphold the previous government's commitments to reducing deforestation by 80% by 2020. Yet, only a few months later, the gloss has worn off and the promises look shaky. Forest loss is climbing again and millions of hectares are on the chopping block.According to the latest Brazilian governmental figures, deforestation in the Amazon has spiked over the last two months \u2013 an increase of more than 500% compared with the same timeframe last year. Due to clouds and rain, which prevented satellite monitoring, the state of Para that boasted the highest rates of forest loss in 2010 was largely not included in the analysis. Therefore these figures may be just the tip of the deforestation iceberg.The Brazilian environmental minister, Izabella Teixeira, announced a \"crisis team\" and mobilised the Environmental Protection Agency and additional police to tackle what she called an \"atypical\" trend. However, the heart of the crisis beats in Brasilia.Brazil is considering major changes to the forest code \u2013 the main law that protects the rainforest. If these changes go though they could let hundreds of forest criminals off the hook, and massively expand the amount of forest under threat from the chainsaws. The changes would threaten the obligation for landowners to leave 80% of their property forested and would grant impunity for those that have previously illegally deforested. This is the fuel that is driving the substantial increase in deforestation. Farmers are rushing to cut down forests, expecting that the new law will protect them from being punished for their past crimes. They're also gambling that the new rules will allow them to cut down more forest in the future, and they're getting started before the ink is even dry.The deaths earlier this week of leading rainforest defenders Jos\u00e9 Cl\u00e1udio Ribeiro da Silva and his wife, Maria do Esp\u00edrito Santo was a tragic reminder of what can happen when impunity is legitimised.The vote on changes to the code in the Congress this week and the subsequent Senate vote are strongly influenced by sections of the agribusiness lobby. Yet soya export giants identify forest protection as a key part of their ability to capture international markets. The Brazilian scientific community and 10 former Brazilian environment ministers point to such changes driving considerable biodiversity loss and climate impacts, and encourage the use of millions of hectares of under-utilised and degraded lands as a clear solution to the need to increase food production.The spotlight rests on president Rousseff. If she allows the forest code to change, she will capitulate to a small, yet vocal, vested interest group and will break the very promises which ensured her presidency. The Brazilian success story of the 21st century could be undone on the eve of Brazil hosting the world at the Earth Summit (Rio+20) in 2012.Brazil's global reputation in the fight against deforestation and climate change is at stake. President Rousseff must stop the chainsaws by keeping the current forest laws intact and getting tough with those who are clearing the rainforest right now.\u2022 Paulo Adario is the head of Greenpeace's Amazon campaign\u2022 This article was amended on 5 March 2012. The original referred to Dilma Rousseff as Roussef throughout. The has been corrected.", "tags": ["Amazon rainforest", "Trees and forests", "Deforestation", "Conservation", "Environment", "Greenpeace", "Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Brazil risks protection record by proposing changes to forest code | Paulo Adario"},{"date": "2011-05-20T10:59:05Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Hundreds of environmental protection officers are being deployed in the Brazilian Amazon after government satellites detected a sudden, unexpected surge in deforestation.On Wednesday, Brazil's environment minister Izabella Teixeira announced the creation of a \"crisis cabinet\" to crackdown on illegal logging in the world's largest tropical rainforest, after satellites registered a 27% hike in Amazon deforestation between August 2010 and April this year compared with the previous year.\"The order is to suffocate environmental crime,\" said Teixeira, following the release of images that showed at least 1,848 sq km of rainforest had been destroyed, compared with 1,455 sq km a year earlier.Satellite data painted an even more disturbing picture of deforestation in March and April this year when nearly 593 sq km of forest were lost \u2013 an increase of over 470% compared with the same period in 2010.Officials said the most dramatic situation was in the soy-growing state of Mato Grosso, where farmers are said to be using tractors and giant chains to rip up vast tracts of native forest.Brazil's environmental protection agency, Ibama, this week vowed to launch 200 operations in the region by the end of the year, with support from armed federal police operatives. Illegal cattle and timber would be seized, it said.This week's announcement comes after successive years in which Amazon deforestation fell dramatically. Last December Teixeira publicly celebrated reaching \"the lowest level of deforestation in the history of Amazonia\".On Wednesday, however, Teixeira admitted the sudden reversal was \"scary\" and \"atypical\". \"Until this deforestation is reduced, none [of our agents] will leave the field,\" she said.Brazil's environment minister said it was too early to know what had caused the sudden spike in destruction.But many environmentalists are convinced it is linked to an ongoing and highly controversial debate over changes to Brazil's forest code that Amazon farmers and ranchers hope will enable them to expand their properties, and boost economic development.Under the new proposals, the amount of rainforest that Amazon landowners are required to protect, currently set at 80%, could be reduced.Andre Muggiati, an Amazon-based campaigner for environmental group Greenpeace, said anticipation of such changes had sparked a \"deforestation frenzy\". Many ranchers and deforesters were convinced they would be forgiven for newly razed areas, he said.\"They are opening large areas right now and it is not even deforestation season because it is raining in the Amazon region,\" he said.\"If the bill is approved then we are going to have the largest deforestation [levels] in the Amazon and in Brazil in general in many years this year.\"\"It looked like the country was going one way \u2013 a good way for forest conservation \u2013 meeting targets, carbon emission reduction. We were really doing fine. But we decided to take a U-turn and go the other way. It is really bad what is happening,\" Muggiati added. \"The country is going backwards in terms of forest conservation, definitely.\"Brazil's Congress is expected to vote on changes to the forest code by the end of this month.", "tags": ["Deforestation", "Conservation", "Trees and forests", "Environment", "Brazil", "World news", "Amazon rainforest"], "title": "Brazil forms 'crisis cabinet' following unexpected deforestation surge"},{"date": "2011-04-12T13:06:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "For the first time in the long drawn-out struggle between indigenous peoples living in the Xing\u00fa river basin and the Brazilian government, the underdogs have won the support of a sizeable ally. In a letter addressed to the state of Brazil, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) officially requested it \"immediately suspend the licensing process for the Belo Monte hydroelectric plant project\".The commission was responding to an appeal lodged at the end of last year by non-government organisations including the Par\u00e1 Society for the Defence of Human Rights. It asserts that the Brazilian authorities failed to organise proper consultation of the people affected by the dam project. This claim allegedly angered President Dilma Rousseff.Among the dozen or so tribes concerned, the Arar\u00e1 and Paqui\u00e7amba groups would be hardest hit. It is not yet entirely clear how the dam would affect the region's ecosystem. A group of independent Brazilian scientists, who recently studied the environmental impact report, concluded that the project was not viable. The Xing\u00fa river basin is home to four times more biodiversity that the whole of Europe. The dam project would lead to the disappearance of some 1,000 reptile, bird and fish species. The dam reservoir would flood about 500 sq km of land, officially entailing the displacement of 16,000 people.Supporters of the hydroelectric scheme say it is essential to support Brazil's economic growth. Belo Monte is expected to supply more than a 10th of electricity output by 2019.Ten court actions have been initiated against the project since 2001, none of which has reached its term. In its letter the commission asked the Brazilian government to \"conduct consultation processes, in fulfilment of its international obligations\", explaining that this means \"prior consultations that are free, informed, of good faith, culturally appropriate, and with the aim of reaching an agreement\".The head of Brazil's electrical energy agency, Nelson Hubner, insisted that \"the indigenous communities and other representatives of society\" took part in all the meetings. \"All the procedures were followed exactly, with the rigour our legislation requires,\" he added in an interview published by the daily O Globo. The government said work would continue.In February indigenous group delegates from the Xing\u00fa basin handed Rousseff a petition opposing the dam signed by half a million people. But Norte Energ\u00eda got the go-ahead for preparatory works last month.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Wave and tidal power", "Environment", "Trees and forests", "Conservation", "Brazil", "Dilma Rousseff", "Indigenous peoples", "World news"], "title": "New rights challenge to Belo Monte dam in Brazil"},{"date": "2011-06-14T13:19:01Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "As every editor knows, a writer should never inflict too many numbers on the reader. Rankings, dates, figures, indexes and percentages can be off-putting \u2013 if not a downright bore. With this in mind, here is a little collection, gleaned recently from the Brazilian press, which may help to decipher a few local realities.Let's start with 30,000. That's the number of bills pending in Brazil's congress, the legislative body in the capital Brasilia, composed of 513 deputies and 81 senators. Among these dormant bills are 975 constitutional amendments awaiting ratification. The oldest has been pending for 16 years. There are also 2,180 draft laws that have been vetoed by successive presidents. Technically, their fate should have been decided within 30 days of the veto.And that's without the 50 international treaties, one of which, ratified last month, was dated 1994. Were the Brazilian congress to examine just these bills, it would take a century at the current pace. The federal delegates have mostly abandoned their prerogative of controlling the president's accounts. No fewer than 12 budgets are still awaiting debate, the oldest of which dates back to 1990.The Brazilian congress has a singular talent for indecision. Split into numerous parties, it is stifled by bureaucracy, and subject to clientelism.So the executive legislates, not the legislature. The constitution authorises the head of state to take \"provisional measures\", and 1,127 of these have been taken over the last 22 years, an average of one a week. Itamar Franco, a former Brazilian president, recently concluded: \"We're pathetic legislators.\"Brasilia has become one of the most expensive cities in the world, with S\u00e3o Paulo and Rio de Janeiro close behind. In Buenos Aires commuters can buy six underground tickets for the price of one in Brasilia.\u00a0The list of goods and services costing more in Brazil than elsewhere includes clothes, shoes, medicines, toys, perfumes and restaurants. The Big Mac is the fourth most expensive in the world. A croissant in a cafe costs five times more in Brasilia than in Paris, a pizza half as much again as in London, and a Japanese car two and a half times more than in the US.The high cost of living is mainly due to the over-valued real, which has risen 110% against the dollar in eight years. Other factors, such as heavy import duties, high labour costs, saturated infrastructure, and the persistence of oligopolies, don't help.Thanks to the strong currency, Brazilians travel more and use the opportunity to stuff their luggage with goods purchased in the US or in Europe. Foreign travel now equates to massive shopping sprees.S\u00e3o Paulo alone counts 21 billionaires, in dollar terms. According to Forbes magazine, which tracks the geographic location of wealthy individuals, S\u00e3o Paulo ranks sixth, before Los Angeles and Tokyo. A sign of the enrichment of the Brazilian elite: the city acquired seven new billionaires this year, privileged people whose assets doubled in the last 12 months. Rio de Janeiro \"only\" has three billionaires, but one of them, the entrepreneur Eike Batista, is the richest man in the country and the eighth-richest in the world.Sadly, there are more modest figures too, such as the percentage of illiterate adults who have learned to read and write over the last 10 years: 7%. Illiteracy fell from 13.6% to 9.6% of the population between 2000 and 2010, but mainly among those under 20 who benefitted from the country's education policy. Progress remains marginal among adults.The oldest living person in the world is also Brazilian, 114-year-old Maria Gomes Valentim, who recently entered the Guinness Book of Records. She was born only eight years before the abolition of slavery in Brazil, married in 1913, was widowed in 1946, and has spent her life in a small town in Minas Gerais. \"Grandmother Quita\", as she is known, attributes her longevity to her daily breakfast of bread and fruit. This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil"], "title": "Brazil, figuratively speaking"},{"date": "2011-06-07T13:10:17Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "President Dilma Rousseff has launched an ambitious plan, Brazil Without Misery, which aims to eradicate dire poverty by 2014.Just over 16 million Brazilians \u2013 almost a tenth of the population \u2013 live in extreme poverty, with less than $45 a month. Half of them are under 19, 40% under 14. Almost two-thirds live in the Nordeste region and about one in five is illiterate. Of the 30 million living in the countryside, one in four is \"very poor\".During the election campaign, Rousseff promised to end poverty. Announcing the plan, she said it would be her top priority in her term of office.\"We can't forget that the most permanent, challenging and harrowing crisis is having chronic poverty in this country,\" Rousseff said. The government plans to launch an offensive through welfare payments, education, jobs, healthcare, access to public services, improved infrastructure and rural development.First, the government will be giving slightly more money to the poorest people, broadening the scope of the bolsa familia (conditional cash transfer) initiated by Rousseff's predecessor, Lula da Silva, which benefits 12 million poor or very poor families. Now up to five children per family \u2013 formerly it was three \u2013 qualify for benefits, embracing a further 1.3 million children. Monthly payments to the mother of each family will range from $22 to $200.Above all, by the end of 2013 the government wants bolsa payments to reach 800,000 more families, who qualify for the welfare payments but do not receive it due to geographical isolation, poor information or administrative shortcomings. \"We need to change the mindset that it is up to a poor person to come to the state, and ensure that the state reaches out to the poor person,\" social development minister Tereza Campello said. Officials had to change their approach, identify needy families, go to homes and take action.Since its launch in 2003 the bolsa familia scheme has enabled tens of millions of Brazilians to get enough to eat, live a little better, and even discover the joys of consumption and credit. But more needed to be done, she said. \"A country that has grown like Brazil can't be content with just having a big social programme,\" Campello emphasised.In the second part of its plan, the government aims to improve access to public services, particularly education, the health service, running water, electricity and sewerage for those most in need. Almost half of very poor rural families have neither running water nor a well, and more than half of them have neither a sewer connection nor a septic tank.\"Productive inclusiveness\", the third and last part of the scheme, aims to give the poor the economic means to lift themselves permanently out of poverty, through job opportunities, vocational training and micro-credit. Brazil lacks the necessary labour for low-qualification jobs, so between now and 2014 some 1.7 million urban workers will be offered training. Another goal is a fourfold increase in the number of poor farmers receiving state subsidies and guidance from farm engineers.\"We want to eradicate extreme poverty by 2014 and make Brazil the first developing country to achieve the first of the UN millennium development goals,\" Campello said.This story originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Global development"], "title": "Brazil declares war on 'chronic poverty'"},{"date": "2011-05-27T11:34:56Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Less than one year ago, the Brazilian government stood proudly on the world stage as a country that would not allow development to destroy its rainforests and announced the lowest rate of Amazon deforestation on record. Brazil's newly elected and first female president, Dilma Rousseff, promised to prevent any changes in law that would allow more deforestation or give amnesty to environmental criminals. She vowed to uphold the previous government's commitments to reducing deforestation by 80% by 2020. Yet, only a few months later, the gloss has worn off and the promises look shaky. Forest loss is climbing again and millions of hectares are on the chopping block.According to the latest Brazilian governmental figures, deforestation in the Amazon has spiked over the last two months \u2013 an increase of more than 500% compared with the same timeframe last year. Due to clouds and rain, which prevented satellite monitoring, the state of Para that boasted the highest rates of forest loss in 2010 was largely not included in the analysis. Therefore these figures may be just the tip of the deforestation iceberg.The Brazilian environmental minister, Izabella Teixeira, announced a \"crisis team\" and mobilised the Environmental Protection Agency and additional police to tackle what she called an \"atypical\" trend. However, the heart of the crisis beats in Brasilia.Brazil is considering major changes to the forest code \u2013 the main law that protects the rainforest. If these changes go though they could let hundreds of forest criminals off the hook, and massively expand the amount of forest under threat from the chainsaws. The changes would threaten the obligation for landowners to leave 80% of their property forested and would grant impunity for those that have previously illegally deforested. This is the fuel that is driving the substantial increase in deforestation. Farmers are rushing to cut down forests, expecting that the new law will protect them from being punished for their past crimes. They're also gambling that the new rules will allow them to cut down more forest in the future, and they're getting started before the ink is even dry.The deaths earlier this week of leading rainforest defenders Jos\u00e9 Cl\u00e1udio Ribeiro da Silva and his wife, Maria do Esp\u00edrito Santo was a tragic reminder of what can happen when impunity is legitimised.The vote on changes to the code in the Congress this week and the subsequent Senate vote are strongly influenced by sections of the agribusiness lobby. Yet soya export giants identify forest protection as a key part of their ability to capture international markets. The Brazilian scientific community and 10 former Brazilian environment ministers point to such changes driving considerable biodiversity loss and climate impacts, and encourage the use of millions of hectares of under-utilised and degraded lands as a clear solution to the need to increase food production.The spotlight rests on president Rousseff. If she allows the forest code to change, she will capitulate to a small, yet vocal, vested interest group and will break the very promises which ensured her presidency. The Brazilian success story of the 21st century could be undone on the eve of Brazil hosting the world at the Earth Summit (Rio+20) in 2012.Brazil's global reputation in the fight against deforestation and climate change is at stake. President Rousseff must stop the chainsaws by keeping the current forest laws intact and getting tough with those who are clearing the rainforest right now.\u2022 Paulo Adario is the head of Greenpeace's Amazon campaign\u2022 This article was amended on 5 March 2012. The original referred to Dilma Rousseff as Roussef throughout. The has been corrected.", "tags": ["Amazon rainforest", "Trees and forests", "Deforestation", "Conservation", "Environment", "Greenpeace", "Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Brazil risks protection record by proposing changes to forest code | Paulo Adario"},{"date": "2011-05-20T10:59:05Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Hundreds of environmental protection officers are being deployed in the Brazilian Amazon after government satellites detected a sudden, unexpected surge in deforestation.On Wednesday, Brazil's environment minister Izabella Teixeira announced the creation of a \"crisis cabinet\" to crackdown on illegal logging in the world's largest tropical rainforest, after satellites registered a 27% hike in Amazon deforestation between August 2010 and April this year compared with the previous year.\"The order is to suffocate environmental crime,\" said Teixeira, following the release of images that showed at least 1,848 sq km of rainforest had been destroyed, compared with 1,455 sq km a year earlier.Satellite data painted an even more disturbing picture of deforestation in March and April this year when nearly 593 sq km of forest were lost \u2013 an increase of over 470% compared with the same period in 2010.Officials said the most dramatic situation was in the soy-growing state of Mato Grosso, where farmers are said to be using tractors and giant chains to rip up vast tracts of native forest.Brazil's environmental protection agency, Ibama, this week vowed to launch 200 operations in the region by the end of the year, with support from armed federal police operatives. Illegal cattle and timber would be seized, it said.This week's announcement comes after successive years in which Amazon deforestation fell dramatically. Last December Teixeira publicly celebrated reaching \"the lowest level of deforestation in the history of Amazonia\".On Wednesday, however, Teixeira admitted the sudden reversal was \"scary\" and \"atypical\". \"Until this deforestation is reduced, none [of our agents] will leave the field,\" she said.Brazil's environment minister said it was too early to know what had caused the sudden spike in destruction.But many environmentalists are convinced it is linked to an ongoing and highly controversial debate over changes to Brazil's forest code that Amazon farmers and ranchers hope will enable them to expand their properties, and boost economic development.Under the new proposals, the amount of rainforest that Amazon landowners are required to protect, currently set at 80%, could be reduced.Andre Muggiati, an Amazon-based campaigner for environmental group Greenpeace, said anticipation of such changes had sparked a \"deforestation frenzy\". Many ranchers and deforesters were convinced they would be forgiven for newly razed areas, he said.\"They are opening large areas right now and it is not even deforestation season because it is raining in the Amazon region,\" he said.\"If the bill is approved then we are going to have the largest deforestation [levels] in the Amazon and in Brazil in general in many years this year.\"\"It looked like the country was going one way \u2013 a good way for forest conservation \u2013 meeting targets, carbon emission reduction. We were really doing fine. But we decided to take a U-turn and go the other way. It is really bad what is happening,\" Muggiati added. \"The country is going backwards in terms of forest conservation, definitely.\"Brazil's Congress is expected to vote on changes to the forest code by the end of this month.", "tags": ["Deforestation", "Conservation", "Trees and forests", "Environment", "Brazil", "World news", "Amazon rainforest"], "title": "Brazil forms 'crisis cabinet' following unexpected deforestation surge"},{"date": "2011-04-12T13:06:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "For the first time in the long drawn-out struggle between indigenous peoples living in the Xing\u00fa river basin and the Brazilian government, the underdogs have won the support of a sizeable ally. In a letter addressed to the state of Brazil, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) officially requested it \"immediately suspend the licensing process for the Belo Monte hydroelectric plant project\".The commission was responding to an appeal lodged at the end of last year by non-government organisations including the Par\u00e1 Society for the Defence of Human Rights. It asserts that the Brazilian authorities failed to organise proper consultation of the people affected by the dam project. This claim allegedly angered President Dilma Rousseff.Among the dozen or so tribes concerned, the Arar\u00e1 and Paqui\u00e7amba groups would be hardest hit. It is not yet entirely clear how the dam would affect the region's ecosystem. A group of independent Brazilian scientists, who recently studied the environmental impact report, concluded that the project was not viable. The Xing\u00fa river basin is home to four times more biodiversity that the whole of Europe. The dam project would lead to the disappearance of some 1,000 reptile, bird and fish species. The dam reservoir would flood about 500 sq km of land, officially entailing the displacement of 16,000 people.Supporters of the hydroelectric scheme say it is essential to support Brazil's economic growth. Belo Monte is expected to supply more than a 10th of electricity output by 2019.Ten court actions have been initiated against the project since 2001, none of which has reached its term. In its letter the commission asked the Brazilian government to \"conduct consultation processes, in fulfilment of its international obligations\", explaining that this means \"prior consultations that are free, informed, of good faith, culturally appropriate, and with the aim of reaching an agreement\".The head of Brazil's electrical energy agency, Nelson Hubner, insisted that \"the indigenous communities and other representatives of society\" took part in all the meetings. \"All the procedures were followed exactly, with the rigour our legislation requires,\" he added in an interview published by the daily O Globo. The government said work would continue.In February indigenous group delegates from the Xing\u00fa basin handed Rousseff a petition opposing the dam signed by half a million people. But Norte Energ\u00eda got the go-ahead for preparatory works last month.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Wave and tidal power", "Environment", "Trees and forests", "Conservation", "Brazil", "Dilma Rousseff", "Indigenous peoples", "World news"], "title": "New rights challenge to Belo Monte dam in Brazil"},{"date": "2011-04-07T19:22:11Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A gunman opened fire at a school in Rio de Janeiro, killing at least 12 children, mostly girls aged between 11 and 13, in what Brazilian media described as the worst school massacre in the country's history.Ten of the victims were shot in the head or chest by the 23-year-old gunman, who was named as Wellington Menezes de Oliveira. Another 18 people were reported to have been injured, several seriously, before Oliveira killed himself.Witnesses said Oliveira, a former student of the Tasso da Silveira school in Realengo, in western Rio, approached the school with two handguns just before 8.30am and opened fire on two boys on a nearby street. He shot one in the head and one in the arm.Oliveira is then said to have continued through the school's metal gates and through its front door where a yellow sign reads: \"Smile: you are being filmed.\"Dorival Porto Rafael, a rubbish collector who was at the school, told Globo online that the gunman had walked into a class where students were studying Portuguese.\"He came into the class saying he was going to give a talk. He went to an eighth-grade class, on the [ground floor], and without saying anything took out a pistol from his bag and started firing,\" Rafael said. \"The police arrived and he tried to go up to the next floor, but when he saw he was surrounded he shot himself in the head.\"Authorities said Oliveira's killing spree ended only because of the intervention of a military policeman who managed to shoot him in the leg before he took his own life.Crowds jeered as the killer's body was carried out of the school and bundled into a yellow morgue van, wrapped in a black plastic bag.Brazil's president, Dilma Rousseff, has declared three days of national mourning.Speaking at a hastily arranged press conference on the school's tatty basketball court, the mayor of Rio de Janeiro, Eduardo Paes, said the tragedy might have been much worse without the policeman's intervention. \"God willing, those who are still in danger will not die,\" he added.Rio's governor, Sergio Cabral, said Oliveira had been \"heavily armed with two guns and a belt filled with professional ammunition\".\"I believe it is our duty to \u2026 support the families of the young boys and girls killed by this psychopath, this animal,\" he added.President Rousseff said: \"We must unite in rejecting this act of violence \u2026 against defenceless children \u2014 children who have lost their lives and their futures.\"One witness told the Guardian he had seen between 15 and 20 children dead or seriously wounded.\"It is a massacre, a true massacre,\" said Roni de Macedo, a firefighter who arrived on the scene shortly after the shooting began and dragged eight seriously injured children from the school.\"There is blood on the walls, blood on the chairs. There are 15 to 20 dead I think,\" he said, covered in blood from head to toe. \"I've never seen anything like this. It's like something in the United States.\"Hercilei Antunes, 44, a postman who lives opposite the school and has a daughter there, said: \"I saw a load of injured kids, bleeding kids. I saw a dead guy inside. I heard more than 30 shots.\"I heard shots, shots, shots and more shots. I tried to go in, but he shot more and I am not made of steel,\" he added.Antunes's porch was blood-stained where he had given first aid to injured children as they fled the school.With police helicopters hovering overhead, Yvonette Fernandes wept as she looked for her 12-year-old niece, along with scores of other desperate family members. \"Where is she? I want to know where she is.\"Some students recounted lucky escapes. Sidcley Lopes Garcia, 13, said he had arrived late for class and was outside when he heard the first shots. \"I jumped over the wall,\" he said. \"Lots of my friends were injured.\"Another 12-year-old student stood outside the school weeping. \"I thought I was going to die,\" she cried. \"He shot my friend. My friend is dead.\"Twins Brenda and Bianca Rocha Tavares, 13, were inside the school at the time of the shooting and were both hit. Brenda died after being shot in the head, while her sister was shot in the arms and taken to hospital for surgery.\"I was working when I heard about the shooting and came here,\" Perla Maria dos Reis Paes, their aunt, told O Globo.\"Unfortunately my niece is dead.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news"], "title": "Brazil shooting: 12 children killed in school rampage"},{"date": "2011-06-14T13:19:01Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "As every editor knows, a writer should never inflict too many numbers on the reader. Rankings, dates, figures, indexes and percentages can be off-putting \u2013 if not a downright bore. With this in mind, here is a little collection, gleaned recently from the Brazilian press, which may help to decipher a few local realities.Let's start with 30,000. That's the number of bills pending in Brazil's congress, the legislative body in the capital Brasilia, composed of 513 deputies and 81 senators. Among these dormant bills are 975 constitutional amendments awaiting ratification. The oldest has been pending for 16 years. There are also 2,180 draft laws that have been vetoed by successive presidents. Technically, their fate should have been decided within 30 days of the veto.And that's without the 50 international treaties, one of which, ratified last month, was dated 1994. Were the Brazilian congress to examine just these bills, it would take a century at the current pace. The federal delegates have mostly abandoned their prerogative of controlling the president's accounts. No fewer than 12 budgets are still awaiting debate, the oldest of which dates back to 1990.The Brazilian congress has a singular talent for indecision. Split into numerous parties, it is stifled by bureaucracy, and subject to clientelism.So the executive legislates, not the legislature. The constitution authorises the head of state to take \"provisional measures\", and 1,127 of these have been taken over the last 22 years, an average of one a week. Itamar Franco, a former Brazilian president, recently concluded: \"We're pathetic legislators.\"Brasilia has become one of the most expensive cities in the world, with S\u00e3o Paulo and Rio de Janeiro close behind. In Buenos Aires commuters can buy six underground tickets for the price of one in Brasilia.\u00a0The list of goods and services costing more in Brazil than elsewhere includes clothes, shoes, medicines, toys, perfumes and restaurants. The Big Mac is the fourth most expensive in the world. A croissant in a cafe costs five times more in Brasilia than in Paris, a pizza half as much again as in London, and a Japanese car two and a half times more than in the US.The high cost of living is mainly due to the over-valued real, which has risen 110% against the dollar in eight years. Other factors, such as heavy import duties, high labour costs, saturated infrastructure, and the persistence of oligopolies, don't help.Thanks to the strong currency, Brazilians travel more and use the opportunity to stuff their luggage with goods purchased in the US or in Europe. Foreign travel now equates to massive shopping sprees.S\u00e3o Paulo alone counts 21 billionaires, in dollar terms. According to Forbes magazine, which tracks the geographic location of wealthy individuals, S\u00e3o Paulo ranks sixth, before Los Angeles and Tokyo. A sign of the enrichment of the Brazilian elite: the city acquired seven new billionaires this year, privileged people whose assets doubled in the last 12 months. Rio de Janeiro \"only\" has three billionaires, but one of them, the entrepreneur Eike Batista, is the richest man in the country and the eighth-richest in the world.Sadly, there are more modest figures too, such as the percentage of illiterate adults who have learned to read and write over the last 10 years: 7%. Illiteracy fell from 13.6% to 9.6% of the population between 2000 and 2010, but mainly among those under 20 who benefitted from the country's education policy. Progress remains marginal among adults.The oldest living person in the world is also Brazilian, 114-year-old Maria Gomes Valentim, who recently entered the Guinness Book of Records. She was born only eight years before the abolition of slavery in Brazil, married in 1913, was widowed in 1946, and has spent her life in a small town in Minas Gerais. \"Grandmother Quita\", as she is known, attributes her longevity to her daily breakfast of bread and fruit. This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil"], "title": "Brazil, figuratively speaking"},{"date": "2011-06-07T13:10:17Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "President Dilma Rousseff has launched an ambitious plan, Brazil Without Misery, which aims to eradicate dire poverty by 2014.Just over 16 million Brazilians \u2013 almost a tenth of the population \u2013 live in extreme poverty, with less than $45 a month. Half of them are under 19, 40% under 14. Almost two-thirds live in the Nordeste region and about one in five is illiterate. Of the 30 million living in the countryside, one in four is \"very poor\".During the election campaign, Rousseff promised to end poverty. Announcing the plan, she said it would be her top priority in her term of office.\"We can't forget that the most permanent, challenging and harrowing crisis is having chronic poverty in this country,\" Rousseff said. The government plans to launch an offensive through welfare payments, education, jobs, healthcare, access to public services, improved infrastructure and rural development.First, the government will be giving slightly more money to the poorest people, broadening the scope of the bolsa familia (conditional cash transfer) initiated by Rousseff's predecessor, Lula da Silva, which benefits 12 million poor or very poor families. Now up to five children per family \u2013 formerly it was three \u2013 qualify for benefits, embracing a further 1.3 million children. Monthly payments to the mother of each family will range from $22 to $200.Above all, by the end of 2013 the government wants bolsa payments to reach 800,000 more families, who qualify for the welfare payments but do not receive it due to geographical isolation, poor information or administrative shortcomings. \"We need to change the mindset that it is up to a poor person to come to the state, and ensure that the state reaches out to the poor person,\" social development minister Tereza Campello said. Officials had to change their approach, identify needy families, go to homes and take action.Since its launch in 2003 the bolsa familia scheme has enabled tens of millions of Brazilians to get enough to eat, live a little better, and even discover the joys of consumption and credit. But more needed to be done, she said. \"A country that has grown like Brazil can't be content with just having a big social programme,\" Campello emphasised.In the second part of its plan, the government aims to improve access to public services, particularly education, the health service, running water, electricity and sewerage for those most in need. Almost half of very poor rural families have neither running water nor a well, and more than half of them have neither a sewer connection nor a septic tank.\"Productive inclusiveness\", the third and last part of the scheme, aims to give the poor the economic means to lift themselves permanently out of poverty, through job opportunities, vocational training and micro-credit. Brazil lacks the necessary labour for low-qualification jobs, so between now and 2014 some 1.7 million urban workers will be offered training. Another goal is a fourfold increase in the number of poor farmers receiving state subsidies and guidance from farm engineers.\"We want to eradicate extreme poverty by 2014 and make Brazil the first developing country to achieve the first of the UN millennium development goals,\" Campello said.This story originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Global development"], "title": "Brazil declares war on 'chronic poverty'"},{"date": "2011-05-27T11:34:56Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Less than one year ago, the Brazilian government stood proudly on the world stage as a country that would not allow development to destroy its rainforests and announced the lowest rate of Amazon deforestation on record. Brazil's newly elected and first female president, Dilma Rousseff, promised to prevent any changes in law that would allow more deforestation or give amnesty to environmental criminals. She vowed to uphold the previous government's commitments to reducing deforestation by 80% by 2020. Yet, only a few months later, the gloss has worn off and the promises look shaky. Forest loss is climbing again and millions of hectares are on the chopping block.According to the latest Brazilian governmental figures, deforestation in the Amazon has spiked over the last two months \u2013 an increase of more than 500% compared with the same timeframe last year. Due to clouds and rain, which prevented satellite monitoring, the state of Para that boasted the highest rates of forest loss in 2010 was largely not included in the analysis. Therefore these figures may be just the tip of the deforestation iceberg.The Brazilian environmental minister, Izabella Teixeira, announced a \"crisis team\" and mobilised the Environmental Protection Agency and additional police to tackle what she called an \"atypical\" trend. However, the heart of the crisis beats in Brasilia.Brazil is considering major changes to the forest code \u2013 the main law that protects the rainforest. If these changes go though they could let hundreds of forest criminals off the hook, and massively expand the amount of forest under threat from the chainsaws. The changes would threaten the obligation for landowners to leave 80% of their property forested and would grant impunity for those that have previously illegally deforested. This is the fuel that is driving the substantial increase in deforestation. Farmers are rushing to cut down forests, expecting that the new law will protect them from being punished for their past crimes. They're also gambling that the new rules will allow them to cut down more forest in the future, and they're getting started before the ink is even dry.The deaths earlier this week of leading rainforest defenders Jos\u00e9 Cl\u00e1udio Ribeiro da Silva and his wife, Maria do Esp\u00edrito Santo was a tragic reminder of what can happen when impunity is legitimised.The vote on changes to the code in the Congress this week and the subsequent Senate vote are strongly influenced by sections of the agribusiness lobby. Yet soya export giants identify forest protection as a key part of their ability to capture international markets. The Brazilian scientific community and 10 former Brazilian environment ministers point to such changes driving considerable biodiversity loss and climate impacts, and encourage the use of millions of hectares of under-utilised and degraded lands as a clear solution to the need to increase food production.The spotlight rests on president Rousseff. If she allows the forest code to change, she will capitulate to a small, yet vocal, vested interest group and will break the very promises which ensured her presidency. The Brazilian success story of the 21st century could be undone on the eve of Brazil hosting the world at the Earth Summit (Rio+20) in 2012.Brazil's global reputation in the fight against deforestation and climate change is at stake. President Rousseff must stop the chainsaws by keeping the current forest laws intact and getting tough with those who are clearing the rainforest right now.\u2022 Paulo Adario is the head of Greenpeace's Amazon campaign\u2022 This article was amended on 5 March 2012. The original referred to Dilma Rousseff as Roussef throughout. The has been corrected.", "tags": ["Amazon rainforest", "Trees and forests", "Deforestation", "Conservation", "Environment", "Greenpeace", "Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Brazil risks protection record by proposing changes to forest code | Paulo Adario"},{"date": "2011-05-20T10:59:05Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Hundreds of environmental protection officers are being deployed in the Brazilian Amazon after government satellites detected a sudden, unexpected surge in deforestation.On Wednesday, Brazil's environment minister Izabella Teixeira announced the creation of a \"crisis cabinet\" to crackdown on illegal logging in the world's largest tropical rainforest, after satellites registered a 27% hike in Amazon deforestation between August 2010 and April this year compared with the previous year.\"The order is to suffocate environmental crime,\" said Teixeira, following the release of images that showed at least 1,848 sq km of rainforest had been destroyed, compared with 1,455 sq km a year earlier.Satellite data painted an even more disturbing picture of deforestation in March and April this year when nearly 593 sq km of forest were lost \u2013 an increase of over 470% compared with the same period in 2010.Officials said the most dramatic situation was in the soy-growing state of Mato Grosso, where farmers are said to be using tractors and giant chains to rip up vast tracts of native forest.Brazil's environmental protection agency, Ibama, this week vowed to launch 200 operations in the region by the end of the year, with support from armed federal police operatives. Illegal cattle and timber would be seized, it said.This week's announcement comes after successive years in which Amazon deforestation fell dramatically. Last December Teixeira publicly celebrated reaching \"the lowest level of deforestation in the history of Amazonia\".On Wednesday, however, Teixeira admitted the sudden reversal was \"scary\" and \"atypical\". \"Until this deforestation is reduced, none [of our agents] will leave the field,\" she said.Brazil's environment minister said it was too early to know what had caused the sudden spike in destruction.But many environmentalists are convinced it is linked to an ongoing and highly controversial debate over changes to Brazil's forest code that Amazon farmers and ranchers hope will enable them to expand their properties, and boost economic development.Under the new proposals, the amount of rainforest that Amazon landowners are required to protect, currently set at 80%, could be reduced.Andre Muggiati, an Amazon-based campaigner for environmental group Greenpeace, said anticipation of such changes had sparked a \"deforestation frenzy\". Many ranchers and deforesters were convinced they would be forgiven for newly razed areas, he said.\"They are opening large areas right now and it is not even deforestation season because it is raining in the Amazon region,\" he said.\"If the bill is approved then we are going to have the largest deforestation [levels] in the Amazon and in Brazil in general in many years this year.\"\"It looked like the country was going one way \u2013 a good way for forest conservation \u2013 meeting targets, carbon emission reduction. We were really doing fine. But we decided to take a U-turn and go the other way. It is really bad what is happening,\" Muggiati added. \"The country is going backwards in terms of forest conservation, definitely.\"Brazil's Congress is expected to vote on changes to the forest code by the end of this month.", "tags": ["Deforestation", "Conservation", "Trees and forests", "Environment", "Brazil", "World news", "Amazon rainforest"], "title": "Brazil forms 'crisis cabinet' following unexpected deforestation surge"},{"date": "2011-04-12T13:06:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "For the first time in the long drawn-out struggle between indigenous peoples living in the Xing\u00fa river basin and the Brazilian government, the underdogs have won the support of a sizeable ally. In a letter addressed to the state of Brazil, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) officially requested it \"immediately suspend the licensing process for the Belo Monte hydroelectric plant project\".The commission was responding to an appeal lodged at the end of last year by non-government organisations including the Par\u00e1 Society for the Defence of Human Rights. It asserts that the Brazilian authorities failed to organise proper consultation of the people affected by the dam project. This claim allegedly angered President Dilma Rousseff.Among the dozen or so tribes concerned, the Arar\u00e1 and Paqui\u00e7amba groups would be hardest hit. It is not yet entirely clear how the dam would affect the region's ecosystem. A group of independent Brazilian scientists, who recently studied the environmental impact report, concluded that the project was not viable. The Xing\u00fa river basin is home to four times more biodiversity that the whole of Europe. The dam project would lead to the disappearance of some 1,000 reptile, bird and fish species. The dam reservoir would flood about 500 sq km of land, officially entailing the displacement of 16,000 people.Supporters of the hydroelectric scheme say it is essential to support Brazil's economic growth. Belo Monte is expected to supply more than a 10th of electricity output by 2019.Ten court actions have been initiated against the project since 2001, none of which has reached its term. In its letter the commission asked the Brazilian government to \"conduct consultation processes, in fulfilment of its international obligations\", explaining that this means \"prior consultations that are free, informed, of good faith, culturally appropriate, and with the aim of reaching an agreement\".The head of Brazil's electrical energy agency, Nelson Hubner, insisted that \"the indigenous communities and other representatives of society\" took part in all the meetings. \"All the procedures were followed exactly, with the rigour our legislation requires,\" he added in an interview published by the daily O Globo. The government said work would continue.In February indigenous group delegates from the Xing\u00fa basin handed Rousseff a petition opposing the dam signed by half a million people. But Norte Energ\u00eda got the go-ahead for preparatory works last month.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Wave and tidal power", "Environment", "Trees and forests", "Conservation", "Brazil", "Dilma Rousseff", "Indigenous peoples", "World news"], "title": "New rights challenge to Belo Monte dam in Brazil"},{"date": "2011-04-07T19:22:11Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A gunman opened fire at a school in Rio de Janeiro, killing at least 12 children, mostly girls aged between 11 and 13, in what Brazilian media described as the worst school massacre in the country's history.Ten of the victims were shot in the head or chest by the 23-year-old gunman, who was named as Wellington Menezes de Oliveira. Another 18 people were reported to have been injured, several seriously, before Oliveira killed himself.Witnesses said Oliveira, a former student of the Tasso da Silveira school in Realengo, in western Rio, approached the school with two handguns just before 8.30am and opened fire on two boys on a nearby street. He shot one in the head and one in the arm.Oliveira is then said to have continued through the school's metal gates and through its front door where a yellow sign reads: \"Smile: you are being filmed.\"Dorival Porto Rafael, a rubbish collector who was at the school, told Globo online that the gunman had walked into a class where students were studying Portuguese.\"He came into the class saying he was going to give a talk. He went to an eighth-grade class, on the [ground floor], and without saying anything took out a pistol from his bag and started firing,\" Rafael said. \"The police arrived and he tried to go up to the next floor, but when he saw he was surrounded he shot himself in the head.\"Authorities said Oliveira's killing spree ended only because of the intervention of a military policeman who managed to shoot him in the leg before he took his own life.Crowds jeered as the killer's body was carried out of the school and bundled into a yellow morgue van, wrapped in a black plastic bag.Brazil's president, Dilma Rousseff, has declared three days of national mourning.Speaking at a hastily arranged press conference on the school's tatty basketball court, the mayor of Rio de Janeiro, Eduardo Paes, said the tragedy might have been much worse without the policeman's intervention. \"God willing, those who are still in danger will not die,\" he added.Rio's governor, Sergio Cabral, said Oliveira had been \"heavily armed with two guns and a belt filled with professional ammunition\".\"I believe it is our duty to \u2026 support the families of the young boys and girls killed by this psychopath, this animal,\" he added.President Rousseff said: \"We must unite in rejecting this act of violence \u2026 against defenceless children \u2014 children who have lost their lives and their futures.\"One witness told the Guardian he had seen between 15 and 20 children dead or seriously wounded.\"It is a massacre, a true massacre,\" said Roni de Macedo, a firefighter who arrived on the scene shortly after the shooting began and dragged eight seriously injured children from the school.\"There is blood on the walls, blood on the chairs. There are 15 to 20 dead I think,\" he said, covered in blood from head to toe. \"I've never seen anything like this. It's like something in the United States.\"Hercilei Antunes, 44, a postman who lives opposite the school and has a daughter there, said: \"I saw a load of injured kids, bleeding kids. I saw a dead guy inside. I heard more than 30 shots.\"I heard shots, shots, shots and more shots. I tried to go in, but he shot more and I am not made of steel,\" he added.Antunes's porch was blood-stained where he had given first aid to injured children as they fled the school.With police helicopters hovering overhead, Yvonette Fernandes wept as she looked for her 12-year-old niece, along with scores of other desperate family members. \"Where is she? I want to know where she is.\"Some students recounted lucky escapes. Sidcley Lopes Garcia, 13, said he had arrived late for class and was outside when he heard the first shots. \"I jumped over the wall,\" he said. \"Lots of my friends were injured.\"Another 12-year-old student stood outside the school weeping. \"I thought I was going to die,\" she cried. \"He shot my friend. My friend is dead.\"Twins Brenda and Bianca Rocha Tavares, 13, were inside the school at the time of the shooting and were both hit. Brenda died after being shot in the head, while her sister was shot in the arms and taken to hospital for surgery.\"I was working when I heard about the shooting and came here,\" Perla Maria dos Reis Paes, their aunt, told O Globo.\"Unfortunately my niece is dead.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news"], "title": "Brazil shooting: 12 children killed in school rampage"},{"date": "2011-06-17T12:02:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Authorities in the Brazilian Amazon are to create an anti-piracy taskforce following a spate of attacks on riverboats in the northern state of Par\u00e1.The rapid-response unit was unveiled by officials after an attack in which 11 heavily armed thieves stormed a passenger boat heading for the state capital, Bel\u00e9m.Joao Bosco Rodrigues, head of Par\u00e1's specialist police divisions, said the unit was \"another instrument to combat and prevent\" the actions of pirates in the Amazon region. \"This group will be there to react to any kind of demand on our rivers,\" he said.Witnesses to the latest attack said that thieves in small motorboats approached the passenger vessel, firing into the air, on Tuesday afternoon.Once aboard, the men reportedly threatened to execute some of the estimated 140 adult and child passengers.\"They humiliated everybody,\" passenger Artur Cesar told the local Di\u00e1rio do Par\u00e1 newspaper. \"They put guns to the children's heads and even said they would cut the fingers off those who didn't hand over their rings. There were pistols, revolvers \u2013 lots of weapons.\"Benivaldo Carvalho said he had been hit on the head by the pirates. \"It was two hours of terror, humiliation and powerlessness. They pointed their guns at us and said they were going to kill us.\"Another passenger, Maria das Gracas Monteiro, said: \"They treated us worse than dogs. I thought I wouldn't make it back alive.\"The issue of piracy in the Brazilian Amazon made international headlines in 2001, following the murder of Sir Peter Blake, a world famous sailor and environmentalist who was shot by a gang known as \"the water rats\" while on a research expedition to the region.Local boatmen say attacks are now common in Par\u00e1, a sprawling, sparsely-policed region.In March this year a sailor in his 20s was killed when two boatloads of pirates raided his vessel as it transported acai fruit to Bel\u00e9m.Last month two more sailors were shot by pirates in the neighbouring state of Amazonas. Police blamed a group known as the \"Black river pirates\".Paulo Cesar Pantoja, the owner of the boat attacked on Tuesday, said numerous attacks had taken place in recent months.\"Big ships carrying 300 passengers have been attacked and if nothing is done more robberies will happen,\" he said.In an interview with the O Liberal newspaper, Pantoja said: \"Sailing in the state of Par\u00e1 is going through a moment of terror. It's difficult.\"Par\u00e1's security ministry said the anti-piracy unit would start operating this month in a \"strategic area\" beside Bel\u00e9m's Guajar\u00e1 Bay and would allow security forces to respond more quickly to \"accidents, shipwrecks and pirate actions\".Rodrigues said that about 50 police officers and eight boats would be deployed as part of the anti-piracy drive but admitted that tackling river crime in such a vast region \u2013 the \"largest hydrographic basin in the world\" \u2013 was not easy.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Piracy at sea", "Gun crime", "World news"], "title": "Brazil creating anti-pirate force after spate of attacks on Amazon riverboats"},{"date": "2011-09-30T17:36:11Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's defence minister has confirmed the country's troops will begin a partial withdrawal from Haiti next March, amid growing criticism of the United Nations stabilisation mission there.Celso Amorim told the senate foreign affairs committee on Thursday that 257 Brazilian troops, out of a total of 2,200, would leave the country as part of UN plans to reduce its numbers by 1,600.\"We should not stay in Haiti for ever, nor do we wish to \u2013 this is not good for the Haitians or for us,\" he said. \"But we will also not leave in an irresponsible manner. It is very important that the withdrawal is not seen as Brazil disengaging. We all agree that a gradual reduction is necessary.\"A few years ago the Brazilian soldiers that have led the UN force in Haiti since 2004 took journalists and politicians on photo-opportunity tours of Port-au-Prince's gang-free slums, which were occupied after former president Jean-Bertrand Aristide was forced from power. During a 2007 visit, one former UN military commander in Haiti said the UN's presence had helped transform Port-au-Prince into a \"Disneyland\".In an interview, Luiz Carlos da Costa, then deputy special representative of the UN secretary general in Haiti, said the UN mission, known as Minustah, had helped bring \"a situation of greater stability\".The earthquake in 2010, in which Costa and an estimated 200,000 Haitians were killed, changed everything. More UN troops were sent to the country but resentment at their presence grew following a cholera outbreak and a recent case of alleged sexual abuse.The UN was widely blamed for introducing the cholera epidemic, which was confirmed on 21 October 2010 and has so far killed about 6,200 and infected nearly 440,000.Friction between UN forces and Haitians was again stoked after the alleged sexual assault of an 18-year-old Haitian man by Uruguayan troops. The alleged assault was filmed on a mobile phone and circulated on the internet.Recent protests against the \"Okipasyon\" have left Brazilian and UN diplomats edgy about their role in Haiti. This month police clashed with protesters outside the national palace in Port-au-Prince.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Haiti", "United Nations", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil announces troop pullout of Haiti"},{"date": "2011-09-30T17:36:11Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's defence minister has confirmed the country's troops will begin a partial withdrawal from Haiti next March, amid growing criticism of the United Nations stabilisation mission there.Celso Amorim told the senate foreign affairs committee on Thursday that 257 Brazilian troops, out of a total of 2,200, would leave the country as part of UN plans to reduce its numbers by 1,600.\"We should not stay in Haiti for ever, nor do we wish to \u2013 this is not good for the Haitians or for us,\" he said. \"But we will also not leave in an irresponsible manner. It is very important that the withdrawal is not seen as Brazil disengaging. We all agree that a gradual reduction is necessary.\"A few years ago the Brazilian soldiers that have led the UN force in Haiti since 2004 took journalists and politicians on photo-opportunity tours of Port-au-Prince's gang-free slums, which were occupied after former president Jean-Bertrand Aristide was forced from power. During a 2007 visit, one former UN military commander in Haiti said the UN's presence had helped transform Port-au-Prince into a \"Disneyland\".In an interview, Luiz Carlos da Costa, then deputy special representative of the UN secretary general in Haiti, said the UN mission, known as Minustah, had helped bring \"a situation of greater stability\".The earthquake in 2010, in which Costa and an estimated 200,000 Haitians were killed, changed everything. More UN troops were sent to the country but resentment at their presence grew following a cholera outbreak and a recent case of alleged sexual abuse.The UN was widely blamed for introducing the cholera epidemic, which was confirmed on 21 October 2010 and has so far killed about 6,200 and infected nearly 440,000.Friction between UN forces and Haitians was again stoked after the alleged sexual assault of an 18-year-old Haitian man by Uruguayan troops. The alleged assault was filmed on a mobile phone and circulated on the internet.Recent protests against the \"Okipasyon\" have left Brazilian and UN diplomats edgy about their role in Haiti. This month police clashed with protesters outside the national palace in Port-au-Prince.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Haiti", "United Nations", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil announces troop pullout of Haiti"},{"date": "2011-08-18T17:09:44Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Retail fashion chain Zara is under investigation by Brazil's ministry of labour after a contractor in S\u00e3o Paulo was found to be using employees in sweatshop conditions to make garments for the Spanish company.The Brazilian government listed 52 charges against Inditex, Zara's parent company, after it \"rescued\" 15 workers from a factory sub-contracted by AHA, the company responsible for 90% of Zara's Brazilian production. Fourteen of the workers were Bolivians and one was from Peru. One was 14.Inditex said in a statement that it could not be held responsible for \"unauthorised outsourcing\" but would compensate the workers because AHA had violated Inditex's code of conduct. Zara has 1,540 stores worldwide, including 64 in the UK.The response has not satisfied the Brazilian authorities. \"AHA is a logistical extension of its main client, Zara Brasil,\" said the prosecutor, Giuliana Cassiano Orlandi. \"The company is responsible for its employees. Its raison d'\u00eatre is making clothes and it follows that it must know who is producing its garments.\"Inditex said its 50 suppliers last year produced 7m garments, with only 0.03% made in unlicensed workshops. It was working closely with the ministry of labour to eradicate sweatshop conditions.Renato Bignami, who led the investigation, said the workers \u2013 who lived on the premises \u2013 worked 12-hour shifts in dangerous and unhealthy conditions.One Bolivian told the TV show A Liga that the labour component of a pair of Zara jeans selling at $126 (\u00a376) was $1.14, which was divided between the seven people involved in the process. The workers earned between $156 and $290 a month. The minimum wage in Brazil is $344.The investigation began after unions reported last June that sweatshops in Sao Paulo were producing garments for Zara. \"Before then, no accusations had been made against Zara,\" said Maria Susiclea Assis of the local garment-makers' union.Bignami said the economic crisis in Spain was driving impoverished migrant workers from places such as Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru back to Brazil, which is in a boom. The high exchange rate for the Brazilian real means that, even at these wages, workers can send money home.\"They work 16 or even 18 hours a day,\" he said. \"It is extremely exhausting work, from Monday to Saturday, sometimes even Sunday depending on demand. I've seen workers who have taken home R$150-250 (\u00a357-94) at the end of the month \u2013 after paying off housing debt, food debt, telephone card debt, debt [to people traffickers] for the journey here.\"Many have to work for three or four months to pay off the \"coyotes\" who have smuggled them into the country.\"These are classic cases of immigrant sweatshops,\" Bignami said, adding that he had no doubt that such labour conditions characterised modern-day slavery. Workers often face \"threats, coercion, physical violence. All this to increase productivity,\" he added.Ineke Zeldenrust of the Clean Clothes Campaign, in Amsterdam, said such sub-contracting was common in the industry. \"It is Zara's responsibility to know who is making their clothes,\" she said. \"According to the code of conduct that they have signed up to, they are responsible for everyone involved in the supply chain. It is up to them to do the monitoring.\"Zara is a family business founded in 1975 in La Coru\u00f1a, north-west Spain by Amancio Ortega, who has become Spain's richest man and the seventh richest in the world. According to Forbes magazine, half of production remains in Spain, with 26% per cent in Europe and the remainder spread around the world.In July, 300 Zara employees staged a demonstration in Madrid, complaining that 80% of the mainly female workforce were on temporary contracts. They earn \u20ac830 for a 40-hour week.\u2022 This article was amended on 23 August 2011 because the original said A Liga is a TV channel. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Slavery", "Zara", "Fashion", "Brazil", "Spain", "Retail industry", "Europe", "Business", "World news", "Life and style"], "title": "Zara accused in Brazil  sweatshop inquiry"},{"date": "2011-09-30T17:36:11Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's defence minister has confirmed the country's troops will begin a partial withdrawal from Haiti next March, amid growing criticism of the United Nations stabilisation mission there.Celso Amorim told the senate foreign affairs committee on Thursday that 257 Brazilian troops, out of a total of 2,200, would leave the country as part of UN plans to reduce its numbers by 1,600.\"We should not stay in Haiti for ever, nor do we wish to \u2013 this is not good for the Haitians or for us,\" he said. \"But we will also not leave in an irresponsible manner. It is very important that the withdrawal is not seen as Brazil disengaging. We all agree that a gradual reduction is necessary.\"A few years ago the Brazilian soldiers that have led the UN force in Haiti since 2004 took journalists and politicians on photo-opportunity tours of Port-au-Prince's gang-free slums, which were occupied after former president Jean-Bertrand Aristide was forced from power. During a 2007 visit, one former UN military commander in Haiti said the UN's presence had helped transform Port-au-Prince into a \"Disneyland\".In an interview, Luiz Carlos da Costa, then deputy special representative of the UN secretary general in Haiti, said the UN mission, known as Minustah, had helped bring \"a situation of greater stability\".The earthquake in 2010, in which Costa and an estimated 200,000 Haitians were killed, changed everything. More UN troops were sent to the country but resentment at their presence grew following a cholera outbreak and a recent case of alleged sexual abuse.The UN was widely blamed for introducing the cholera epidemic, which was confirmed on 21 October 2010 and has so far killed about 6,200 and infected nearly 440,000.Friction between UN forces and Haitians was again stoked after the alleged sexual assault of an 18-year-old Haitian man by Uruguayan troops. The alleged assault was filmed on a mobile phone and circulated on the internet.Recent protests against the \"Okipasyon\" have left Brazilian and UN diplomats edgy about their role in Haiti. This month police clashed with protesters outside the national palace in Port-au-Prince.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Haiti", "United Nations", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil announces troop pullout of Haiti"},{"date": "2011-08-18T17:09:44Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Retail fashion chain Zara is under investigation by Brazil's ministry of labour after a contractor in S\u00e3o Paulo was found to be using employees in sweatshop conditions to make garments for the Spanish company.The Brazilian government listed 52 charges against Inditex, Zara's parent company, after it \"rescued\" 15 workers from a factory sub-contracted by AHA, the company responsible for 90% of Zara's Brazilian production. Fourteen of the workers were Bolivians and one was from Peru. One was 14.Inditex said in a statement that it could not be held responsible for \"unauthorised outsourcing\" but would compensate the workers because AHA had violated Inditex's code of conduct. Zara has 1,540 stores worldwide, including 64 in the UK.The response has not satisfied the Brazilian authorities. \"AHA is a logistical extension of its main client, Zara Brasil,\" said the prosecutor, Giuliana Cassiano Orlandi. \"The company is responsible for its employees. Its raison d'\u00eatre is making clothes and it follows that it must know who is producing its garments.\"Inditex said its 50 suppliers last year produced 7m garments, with only 0.03% made in unlicensed workshops. It was working closely with the ministry of labour to eradicate sweatshop conditions.Renato Bignami, who led the investigation, said the workers \u2013 who lived on the premises \u2013 worked 12-hour shifts in dangerous and unhealthy conditions.One Bolivian told the TV show A Liga that the labour component of a pair of Zara jeans selling at $126 (\u00a376) was $1.14, which was divided between the seven people involved in the process. The workers earned between $156 and $290 a month. The minimum wage in Brazil is $344.The investigation began after unions reported last June that sweatshops in Sao Paulo were producing garments for Zara. \"Before then, no accusations had been made against Zara,\" said Maria Susiclea Assis of the local garment-makers' union.Bignami said the economic crisis in Spain was driving impoverished migrant workers from places such as Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru back to Brazil, which is in a boom. The high exchange rate for the Brazilian real means that, even at these wages, workers can send money home.\"They work 16 or even 18 hours a day,\" he said. \"It is extremely exhausting work, from Monday to Saturday, sometimes even Sunday depending on demand. I've seen workers who have taken home R$150-250 (\u00a357-94) at the end of the month \u2013 after paying off housing debt, food debt, telephone card debt, debt [to people traffickers] for the journey here.\"Many have to work for three or four months to pay off the \"coyotes\" who have smuggled them into the country.\"These are classic cases of immigrant sweatshops,\" Bignami said, adding that he had no doubt that such labour conditions characterised modern-day slavery. Workers often face \"threats, coercion, physical violence. All this to increase productivity,\" he added.Ineke Zeldenrust of the Clean Clothes Campaign, in Amsterdam, said such sub-contracting was common in the industry. \"It is Zara's responsibility to know who is making their clothes,\" she said. \"According to the code of conduct that they have signed up to, they are responsible for everyone involved in the supply chain. It is up to them to do the monitoring.\"Zara is a family business founded in 1975 in La Coru\u00f1a, north-west Spain by Amancio Ortega, who has become Spain's richest man and the seventh richest in the world. According to Forbes magazine, half of production remains in Spain, with 26% per cent in Europe and the remainder spread around the world.In July, 300 Zara employees staged a demonstration in Madrid, complaining that 80% of the mainly female workforce were on temporary contracts. They earn \u20ac830 for a 40-hour week.\u2022 This article was amended on 23 August 2011 because the original said A Liga is a TV channel. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Slavery", "Zara", "Fashion", "Brazil", "Spain", "Retail industry", "Europe", "Business", "World news", "Life and style"], "title": "Zara accused in Brazil  sweatshop inquiry"},{"date": "2011-09-30T09:32:30Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian government department for policies for women took action this week against a series of lingerie ads by brand Hope, starring supermodel Gisele B\u00fcndchen, which it deemed \"offensive and sexist\". In the ads, titled Hope teaches, the model gives her husband bad news such as \"honey, I've crashed the car\" or \"honey, I've reached the credit card limit \u2026 both mine and yours\" \u2013 first fully dressed (which they teach viewers is wrong), then wearing tiny lingerie (which, according to Hope, is right). Essentially, women are taught to use their charm and sexy lingerie to control their husbands. Sigh.Former football blogger Lila Salles, 31, a translator from Rio de Janeiro, thinks the ad is quite funny, despite being extremely sexist: \"I don't think calling for it to be banned was the best way of dealing with it. Perhaps another ad with a heartthrob wearing trunks in the same situation would be a nice payback and a more effective response than censoring it.\" I agree with Lila, but I agree with the government too.When Dilma Rousseff, the first-ever woman to become president of Brazil, was elected in October last year I was incredibly proud. For the first time, the country where I grew up officially recognised the value, competence and ability of a woman, by choosing her to be its head of state. It was, after all, the country where I grew up being told to refrain from making comments about football (\"women had nothing interesting to say about it\") and witnessing men make the most appallingly offensive remarks to and about women. It is the country where other advertisements are generally populated with half-naked attractive women, where women are encouraged to wear almost nothing during carnival, and where they very much struggle in the workplace to have the same opportunities and salaries as their male counterparts.More importantly, it is the place where recent research figures show at least 43% of women have suffered from domestic violence and where 70% of murder cases where victims are female relate to domestic violence. It was under president Lula da Silva that the department for policies for women was created, in 2003. Iriny Lopes, the minister currently in charge of it, was appointed by Rousseff at the beginning of her term, in January this year. Lopes drafted the Maria da Penha law five years ago, to offer protection to women who were victims or likely to become victims of domestic violence.Despite Rousseff not making any statements herself about the calls to ban the ad, Lopes, when notifying the National Council for Advertising Self-regulation \u2013 an independent advertising regulatory body with a statutory backstop \u2013 of her wish to have the ads banned, she was most certainly echoing the president's thoughts on the matter. Unfortunately, for a government faced with such horrendous numbers in the fight against violence that specifically affects women, the sexist, belittling message the ad carries is no laughing matter. Couple that with Brazil's desperate attempts to drop its status as a sex tourism haven, and you have a seriously bleak picture of the situation of many women in that country.As a stark defender of freedom of speech, I found it harsh that the government called for the ad to be banned, despite understanding their reasons behind it. At the same time, my stomach churns when I think educated Brazilian men and women working for advertising agencies still feel the need to portray our women as being dependent or fearful of their husbands, giving them a \"good-humoured\" solution to avoid a bollocking. I would like to see less scantily clad women in Brazilian media in general, as I believe that could potentially help us display our other attributes and earn more respect from our society. After all, we can undoubtedly be great journalists, academics, traders, teachers or entrepreneurs without having to don nothing but sexy lingerie to get to where we want.Interestingly, I talked to 33-year-old lawyer and magistrate Miriam Rodrigues, from Rio de Janeiro, who thinks the ads are not offensive to women. In fact, in her opinion, they just show how easily manipulated some men can be: \"To watch Gisele showing clearly that a clever woman can get anything from a man just by behaving in a sexy manner shows a sort of caveman quality that some guys have, and that intelligent women know how to take advantage of it.\"I disagree because, in my opinion, women should never have to undress to make a point, whatever that may be. Discuss.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Women", "Models", "Advertising", "Marketing & PR", "Media", "World news"], "title": "Gisele's sexist lingerie ads are no laughing matter in Brazil | Thais Portilho-Shrimpton"},{"date": "2011-09-30T17:36:11Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's defence minister has confirmed the country's troops will begin a partial withdrawal from Haiti next March, amid growing criticism of the United Nations stabilisation mission there.Celso Amorim told the senate foreign affairs committee on Thursday that 257 Brazilian troops, out of a total of 2,200, would leave the country as part of UN plans to reduce its numbers by 1,600.\"We should not stay in Haiti for ever, nor do we wish to \u2013 this is not good for the Haitians or for us,\" he said. \"But we will also not leave in an irresponsible manner. It is very important that the withdrawal is not seen as Brazil disengaging. We all agree that a gradual reduction is necessary.\"A few years ago the Brazilian soldiers that have led the UN force in Haiti since 2004 took journalists and politicians on photo-opportunity tours of Port-au-Prince's gang-free slums, which were occupied after former president Jean-Bertrand Aristide was forced from power. During a 2007 visit, one former UN military commander in Haiti said the UN's presence had helped transform Port-au-Prince into a \"Disneyland\".In an interview, Luiz Carlos da Costa, then deputy special representative of the UN secretary general in Haiti, said the UN mission, known as Minustah, had helped bring \"a situation of greater stability\".The earthquake in 2010, in which Costa and an estimated 200,000 Haitians were killed, changed everything. More UN troops were sent to the country but resentment at their presence grew following a cholera outbreak and a recent case of alleged sexual abuse.The UN was widely blamed for introducing the cholera epidemic, which was confirmed on 21 October 2010 and has so far killed about 6,200 and infected nearly 440,000.Friction between UN forces and Haitians was again stoked after the alleged sexual assault of an 18-year-old Haitian man by Uruguayan troops. The alleged assault was filmed on a mobile phone and circulated on the internet.Recent protests against the \"Okipasyon\" have left Brazilian and UN diplomats edgy about their role in Haiti. This month police clashed with protesters outside the national palace in Port-au-Prince.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Haiti", "United Nations", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil announces troop pullout of Haiti"},{"date": "2011-08-18T17:09:44Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Retail fashion chain Zara is under investigation by Brazil's ministry of labour after a contractor in S\u00e3o Paulo was found to be using employees in sweatshop conditions to make garments for the Spanish company.The Brazilian government listed 52 charges against Inditex, Zara's parent company, after it \"rescued\" 15 workers from a factory sub-contracted by AHA, the company responsible for 90% of Zara's Brazilian production. Fourteen of the workers were Bolivians and one was from Peru. One was 14.Inditex said in a statement that it could not be held responsible for \"unauthorised outsourcing\" but would compensate the workers because AHA had violated Inditex's code of conduct. Zara has 1,540 stores worldwide, including 64 in the UK.The response has not satisfied the Brazilian authorities. \"AHA is a logistical extension of its main client, Zara Brasil,\" said the prosecutor, Giuliana Cassiano Orlandi. \"The company is responsible for its employees. Its raison d'\u00eatre is making clothes and it follows that it must know who is producing its garments.\"Inditex said its 50 suppliers last year produced 7m garments, with only 0.03% made in unlicensed workshops. It was working closely with the ministry of labour to eradicate sweatshop conditions.Renato Bignami, who led the investigation, said the workers \u2013 who lived on the premises \u2013 worked 12-hour shifts in dangerous and unhealthy conditions.One Bolivian told the TV show A Liga that the labour component of a pair of Zara jeans selling at $126 (\u00a376) was $1.14, which was divided between the seven people involved in the process. The workers earned between $156 and $290 a month. The minimum wage in Brazil is $344.The investigation began after unions reported last June that sweatshops in Sao Paulo were producing garments for Zara. \"Before then, no accusations had been made against Zara,\" said Maria Susiclea Assis of the local garment-makers' union.Bignami said the economic crisis in Spain was driving impoverished migrant workers from places such as Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru back to Brazil, which is in a boom. The high exchange rate for the Brazilian real means that, even at these wages, workers can send money home.\"They work 16 or even 18 hours a day,\" he said. \"It is extremely exhausting work, from Monday to Saturday, sometimes even Sunday depending on demand. I've seen workers who have taken home R$150-250 (\u00a357-94) at the end of the month \u2013 after paying off housing debt, food debt, telephone card debt, debt [to people traffickers] for the journey here.\"Many have to work for three or four months to pay off the \"coyotes\" who have smuggled them into the country.\"These are classic cases of immigrant sweatshops,\" Bignami said, adding that he had no doubt that such labour conditions characterised modern-day slavery. Workers often face \"threats, coercion, physical violence. All this to increase productivity,\" he added.Ineke Zeldenrust of the Clean Clothes Campaign, in Amsterdam, said such sub-contracting was common in the industry. \"It is Zara's responsibility to know who is making their clothes,\" she said. \"According to the code of conduct that they have signed up to, they are responsible for everyone involved in the supply chain. It is up to them to do the monitoring.\"Zara is a family business founded in 1975 in La Coru\u00f1a, north-west Spain by Amancio Ortega, who has become Spain's richest man and the seventh richest in the world. According to Forbes magazine, half of production remains in Spain, with 26% per cent in Europe and the remainder spread around the world.In July, 300 Zara employees staged a demonstration in Madrid, complaining that 80% of the mainly female workforce were on temporary contracts. They earn \u20ac830 for a 40-hour week.\u2022 This article was amended on 23 August 2011 because the original said A Liga is a TV channel. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Slavery", "Zara", "Fashion", "Brazil", "Spain", "Retail industry", "Europe", "Business", "World news", "Life and style"], "title": "Zara accused in Brazil  sweatshop inquiry"},{"date": "2011-09-30T09:32:30Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian government department for policies for women took action this week against a series of lingerie ads by brand Hope, starring supermodel Gisele B\u00fcndchen, which it deemed \"offensive and sexist\". In the ads, titled Hope teaches, the model gives her husband bad news such as \"honey, I've crashed the car\" or \"honey, I've reached the credit card limit \u2026 both mine and yours\" \u2013 first fully dressed (which they teach viewers is wrong), then wearing tiny lingerie (which, according to Hope, is right). Essentially, women are taught to use their charm and sexy lingerie to control their husbands. Sigh.Former football blogger Lila Salles, 31, a translator from Rio de Janeiro, thinks the ad is quite funny, despite being extremely sexist: \"I don't think calling for it to be banned was the best way of dealing with it. Perhaps another ad with a heartthrob wearing trunks in the same situation would be a nice payback and a more effective response than censoring it.\" I agree with Lila, but I agree with the government too.When Dilma Rousseff, the first-ever woman to become president of Brazil, was elected in October last year I was incredibly proud. For the first time, the country where I grew up officially recognised the value, competence and ability of a woman, by choosing her to be its head of state. It was, after all, the country where I grew up being told to refrain from making comments about football (\"women had nothing interesting to say about it\") and witnessing men make the most appallingly offensive remarks to and about women. It is the country where other advertisements are generally populated with half-naked attractive women, where women are encouraged to wear almost nothing during carnival, and where they very much struggle in the workplace to have the same opportunities and salaries as their male counterparts.More importantly, it is the place where recent research figures show at least 43% of women have suffered from domestic violence and where 70% of murder cases where victims are female relate to domestic violence. It was under president Lula da Silva that the department for policies for women was created, in 2003. Iriny Lopes, the minister currently in charge of it, was appointed by Rousseff at the beginning of her term, in January this year. Lopes drafted the Maria da Penha law five years ago, to offer protection to women who were victims or likely to become victims of domestic violence.Despite Rousseff not making any statements herself about the calls to ban the ad, Lopes, when notifying the National Council for Advertising Self-regulation \u2013 an independent advertising regulatory body with a statutory backstop \u2013 of her wish to have the ads banned, she was most certainly echoing the president's thoughts on the matter. Unfortunately, for a government faced with such horrendous numbers in the fight against violence that specifically affects women, the sexist, belittling message the ad carries is no laughing matter. Couple that with Brazil's desperate attempts to drop its status as a sex tourism haven, and you have a seriously bleak picture of the situation of many women in that country.As a stark defender of freedom of speech, I found it harsh that the government called for the ad to be banned, despite understanding their reasons behind it. At the same time, my stomach churns when I think educated Brazilian men and women working for advertising agencies still feel the need to portray our women as being dependent or fearful of their husbands, giving them a \"good-humoured\" solution to avoid a bollocking. I would like to see less scantily clad women in Brazilian media in general, as I believe that could potentially help us display our other attributes and earn more respect from our society. After all, we can undoubtedly be great journalists, academics, traders, teachers or entrepreneurs without having to don nothing but sexy lingerie to get to where we want.Interestingly, I talked to 33-year-old lawyer and magistrate Miriam Rodrigues, from Rio de Janeiro, who thinks the ads are not offensive to women. In fact, in her opinion, they just show how easily manipulated some men can be: \"To watch Gisele showing clearly that a clever woman can get anything from a man just by behaving in a sexy manner shows a sort of caveman quality that some guys have, and that intelligent women know how to take advantage of it.\"I disagree because, in my opinion, women should never have to undress to make a point, whatever that may be. Discuss.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Women", "Models", "Advertising", "Marketing & PR", "Media", "World news"], "title": "Gisele's sexist lingerie ads are no laughing matter in Brazil | Thais Portilho-Shrimpton"},{"date": "2011-09-13T14:05:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Three leading members of one of Brazil's most powerful churches have been accused of laundering millions in church donations and using worshippers' money for personal gain.The charges, unveiled on Monday by S\u00e3o Paulo's public prosecutor, relate to 404m reals (\u00a3150m) allegedly obtained from mostly impoverished churchgoers by leaders at Brazil's Universal Church of the Kingdom of God.The money was subsequently channelled out of the country via a network of offshore bank accounts and money changers, federal prosecutors claimed.Among those charged is Bishop Edir Macedo, a controversial televangelist who founded the church in 1977, and his financial director, Alba Maria Silva da Costa.Lu\u00eds Martins de Oliveira, the prosecutor behind the case, claimed followers were tricked into handing over money to the church through \"false promises and threats that spiritual and economic assistance would only be bestowed upon those who made financial sacrifices for the church\".Prosecutors claim that although the church claimed to have received around \u00a31.85bn in donations between 2003 and 2006, the actual sum could be much higher.The charges also allege the church opened two offshore accounts in the early 1990s, in the Cayman Islands and in Jersey, to move donations out of the country.The Universal Church was founded in northern Rio and today claims a worldwide congregation of 8 million followers.Church leaders promote \"prosperity theology\" \u2013 through which committed believers are told their faith and regular, generations donations can help them achieve material wealth.But corruption scandals, including claims that donations were used to buy luxury goods and property, have earned the church many critics.The church's preachers are also notorious for their open hostility towards Brazil's gay community and African-Brazilian religions.But Macedo's church also boasts huge support and packed pews have brought incredible wealth.The church owns one of Brazil's top media outlets and \"temples\" in Europe, the US, Africa and Asia.The bishop's blog is written in English, French and Spanish as well as his native Portuguese. With an estimated personal fortune of at least \u00a31.3bn, Macedo leads the charge in promoting \"prosperity theology\".Earlier this month, he directed blog readers to an interview with \"the US's first billionaire\" \u2013 oil tycoon John D Rockefeller.In the blog post, Macedo pointed out that when Rockefeller died in 1937 he had accrued a fortune equivalent to 12 times that of the Microsoft founder, Bill Gates. Rockefeller had also been a generous contributor to his church, Macedo noted.The church is currently splashing out on a replica of Solomon's Temple in S\u00e3o Paulo that will cost an estimated \u00a3130m.The \"mega-church\" will have space for 10,000 worshippers and will house a replica of the Ark of the Covenant.In a statement, the Universal Church rejected Monday's accusations.\"We cannot talk about something we know nothing about,\" the statement said.\"But from what we can tell through the media, these are the same old accusations \u2026 that have always been shown to be untrue.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Christianity", "Religion", "World news"], "title": "Brazil charges church leaders with embezzling millions from poor"},{"date": "2011-09-30T17:36:11Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's defence minister has confirmed the country's troops will begin a partial withdrawal from Haiti next March, amid growing criticism of the United Nations stabilisation mission there.Celso Amorim told the senate foreign affairs committee on Thursday that 257 Brazilian troops, out of a total of 2,200, would leave the country as part of UN plans to reduce its numbers by 1,600.\"We should not stay in Haiti for ever, nor do we wish to \u2013 this is not good for the Haitians or for us,\" he said. \"But we will also not leave in an irresponsible manner. It is very important that the withdrawal is not seen as Brazil disengaging. We all agree that a gradual reduction is necessary.\"A few years ago the Brazilian soldiers that have led the UN force in Haiti since 2004 took journalists and politicians on photo-opportunity tours of Port-au-Prince's gang-free slums, which were occupied after former president Jean-Bertrand Aristide was forced from power. During a 2007 visit, one former UN military commander in Haiti said the UN's presence had helped transform Port-au-Prince into a \"Disneyland\".In an interview, Luiz Carlos da Costa, then deputy special representative of the UN secretary general in Haiti, said the UN mission, known as Minustah, had helped bring \"a situation of greater stability\".The earthquake in 2010, in which Costa and an estimated 200,000 Haitians were killed, changed everything. More UN troops were sent to the country but resentment at their presence grew following a cholera outbreak and a recent case of alleged sexual abuse.The UN was widely blamed for introducing the cholera epidemic, which was confirmed on 21 October 2010 and has so far killed about 6,200 and infected nearly 440,000.Friction between UN forces and Haitians was again stoked after the alleged sexual assault of an 18-year-old Haitian man by Uruguayan troops. The alleged assault was filmed on a mobile phone and circulated on the internet.Recent protests against the \"Okipasyon\" have left Brazilian and UN diplomats edgy about their role in Haiti. This month police clashed with protesters outside the national palace in Port-au-Prince.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Haiti", "United Nations", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil announces troop pullout of Haiti"},{"date": "2011-08-18T17:09:44Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Retail fashion chain Zara is under investigation by Brazil's ministry of labour after a contractor in S\u00e3o Paulo was found to be using employees in sweatshop conditions to make garments for the Spanish company.The Brazilian government listed 52 charges against Inditex, Zara's parent company, after it \"rescued\" 15 workers from a factory sub-contracted by AHA, the company responsible for 90% of Zara's Brazilian production. Fourteen of the workers were Bolivians and one was from Peru. One was 14.Inditex said in a statement that it could not be held responsible for \"unauthorised outsourcing\" but would compensate the workers because AHA had violated Inditex's code of conduct. Zara has 1,540 stores worldwide, including 64 in the UK.The response has not satisfied the Brazilian authorities. \"AHA is a logistical extension of its main client, Zara Brasil,\" said the prosecutor, Giuliana Cassiano Orlandi. \"The company is responsible for its employees. Its raison d'\u00eatre is making clothes and it follows that it must know who is producing its garments.\"Inditex said its 50 suppliers last year produced 7m garments, with only 0.03% made in unlicensed workshops. It was working closely with the ministry of labour to eradicate sweatshop conditions.Renato Bignami, who led the investigation, said the workers \u2013 who lived on the premises \u2013 worked 12-hour shifts in dangerous and unhealthy conditions.One Bolivian told the TV show A Liga that the labour component of a pair of Zara jeans selling at $126 (\u00a376) was $1.14, which was divided between the seven people involved in the process. The workers earned between $156 and $290 a month. The minimum wage in Brazil is $344.The investigation began after unions reported last June that sweatshops in Sao Paulo were producing garments for Zara. \"Before then, no accusations had been made against Zara,\" said Maria Susiclea Assis of the local garment-makers' union.Bignami said the economic crisis in Spain was driving impoverished migrant workers from places such as Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru back to Brazil, which is in a boom. The high exchange rate for the Brazilian real means that, even at these wages, workers can send money home.\"They work 16 or even 18 hours a day,\" he said. \"It is extremely exhausting work, from Monday to Saturday, sometimes even Sunday depending on demand. I've seen workers who have taken home R$150-250 (\u00a357-94) at the end of the month \u2013 after paying off housing debt, food debt, telephone card debt, debt [to people traffickers] for the journey here.\"Many have to work for three or four months to pay off the \"coyotes\" who have smuggled them into the country.\"These are classic cases of immigrant sweatshops,\" Bignami said, adding that he had no doubt that such labour conditions characterised modern-day slavery. Workers often face \"threats, coercion, physical violence. All this to increase productivity,\" he added.Ineke Zeldenrust of the Clean Clothes Campaign, in Amsterdam, said such sub-contracting was common in the industry. \"It is Zara's responsibility to know who is making their clothes,\" she said. \"According to the code of conduct that they have signed up to, they are responsible for everyone involved in the supply chain. It is up to them to do the monitoring.\"Zara is a family business founded in 1975 in La Coru\u00f1a, north-west Spain by Amancio Ortega, who has become Spain's richest man and the seventh richest in the world. According to Forbes magazine, half of production remains in Spain, with 26% per cent in Europe and the remainder spread around the world.In July, 300 Zara employees staged a demonstration in Madrid, complaining that 80% of the mainly female workforce were on temporary contracts. They earn \u20ac830 for a 40-hour week.\u2022 This article was amended on 23 August 2011 because the original said A Liga is a TV channel. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Slavery", "Zara", "Fashion", "Brazil", "Spain", "Retail industry", "Europe", "Business", "World news", "Life and style"], "title": "Zara accused in Brazil  sweatshop inquiry"},{"date": "2011-09-30T09:32:30Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian government department for policies for women took action this week against a series of lingerie ads by brand Hope, starring supermodel Gisele B\u00fcndchen, which it deemed \"offensive and sexist\". In the ads, titled Hope teaches, the model gives her husband bad news such as \"honey, I've crashed the car\" or \"honey, I've reached the credit card limit \u2026 both mine and yours\" \u2013 first fully dressed (which they teach viewers is wrong), then wearing tiny lingerie (which, according to Hope, is right). Essentially, women are taught to use their charm and sexy lingerie to control their husbands. Sigh.Former football blogger Lila Salles, 31, a translator from Rio de Janeiro, thinks the ad is quite funny, despite being extremely sexist: \"I don't think calling for it to be banned was the best way of dealing with it. Perhaps another ad with a heartthrob wearing trunks in the same situation would be a nice payback and a more effective response than censoring it.\" I agree with Lila, but I agree with the government too.When Dilma Rousseff, the first-ever woman to become president of Brazil, was elected in October last year I was incredibly proud. For the first time, the country where I grew up officially recognised the value, competence and ability of a woman, by choosing her to be its head of state. It was, after all, the country where I grew up being told to refrain from making comments about football (\"women had nothing interesting to say about it\") and witnessing men make the most appallingly offensive remarks to and about women. It is the country where other advertisements are generally populated with half-naked attractive women, where women are encouraged to wear almost nothing during carnival, and where they very much struggle in the workplace to have the same opportunities and salaries as their male counterparts.More importantly, it is the place where recent research figures show at least 43% of women have suffered from domestic violence and where 70% of murder cases where victims are female relate to domestic violence. It was under president Lula da Silva that the department for policies for women was created, in 2003. Iriny Lopes, the minister currently in charge of it, was appointed by Rousseff at the beginning of her term, in January this year. Lopes drafted the Maria da Penha law five years ago, to offer protection to women who were victims or likely to become victims of domestic violence.Despite Rousseff not making any statements herself about the calls to ban the ad, Lopes, when notifying the National Council for Advertising Self-regulation \u2013 an independent advertising regulatory body with a statutory backstop \u2013 of her wish to have the ads banned, she was most certainly echoing the president's thoughts on the matter. Unfortunately, for a government faced with such horrendous numbers in the fight against violence that specifically affects women, the sexist, belittling message the ad carries is no laughing matter. Couple that with Brazil's desperate attempts to drop its status as a sex tourism haven, and you have a seriously bleak picture of the situation of many women in that country.As a stark defender of freedom of speech, I found it harsh that the government called for the ad to be banned, despite understanding their reasons behind it. At the same time, my stomach churns when I think educated Brazilian men and women working for advertising agencies still feel the need to portray our women as being dependent or fearful of their husbands, giving them a \"good-humoured\" solution to avoid a bollocking. I would like to see less scantily clad women in Brazilian media in general, as I believe that could potentially help us display our other attributes and earn more respect from our society. After all, we can undoubtedly be great journalists, academics, traders, teachers or entrepreneurs without having to don nothing but sexy lingerie to get to where we want.Interestingly, I talked to 33-year-old lawyer and magistrate Miriam Rodrigues, from Rio de Janeiro, who thinks the ads are not offensive to women. In fact, in her opinion, they just show how easily manipulated some men can be: \"To watch Gisele showing clearly that a clever woman can get anything from a man just by behaving in a sexy manner shows a sort of caveman quality that some guys have, and that intelligent women know how to take advantage of it.\"I disagree because, in my opinion, women should never have to undress to make a point, whatever that may be. Discuss.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Women", "Models", "Advertising", "Marketing & PR", "Media", "World news"], "title": "Gisele's sexist lingerie ads are no laughing matter in Brazil | Thais Portilho-Shrimpton"},{"date": "2011-09-13T14:05:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Three leading members of one of Brazil's most powerful churches have been accused of laundering millions in church donations and using worshippers' money for personal gain.The charges, unveiled on Monday by S\u00e3o Paulo's public prosecutor, relate to 404m reals (\u00a3150m) allegedly obtained from mostly impoverished churchgoers by leaders at Brazil's Universal Church of the Kingdom of God.The money was subsequently channelled out of the country via a network of offshore bank accounts and money changers, federal prosecutors claimed.Among those charged is Bishop Edir Macedo, a controversial televangelist who founded the church in 1977, and his financial director, Alba Maria Silva da Costa.Lu\u00eds Martins de Oliveira, the prosecutor behind the case, claimed followers were tricked into handing over money to the church through \"false promises and threats that spiritual and economic assistance would only be bestowed upon those who made financial sacrifices for the church\".Prosecutors claim that although the church claimed to have received around \u00a31.85bn in donations between 2003 and 2006, the actual sum could be much higher.The charges also allege the church opened two offshore accounts in the early 1990s, in the Cayman Islands and in Jersey, to move donations out of the country.The Universal Church was founded in northern Rio and today claims a worldwide congregation of 8 million followers.Church leaders promote \"prosperity theology\" \u2013 through which committed believers are told their faith and regular, generations donations can help them achieve material wealth.But corruption scandals, including claims that donations were used to buy luxury goods and property, have earned the church many critics.The church's preachers are also notorious for their open hostility towards Brazil's gay community and African-Brazilian religions.But Macedo's church also boasts huge support and packed pews have brought incredible wealth.The church owns one of Brazil's top media outlets and \"temples\" in Europe, the US, Africa and Asia.The bishop's blog is written in English, French and Spanish as well as his native Portuguese. With an estimated personal fortune of at least \u00a31.3bn, Macedo leads the charge in promoting \"prosperity theology\".Earlier this month, he directed blog readers to an interview with \"the US's first billionaire\" \u2013 oil tycoon John D Rockefeller.In the blog post, Macedo pointed out that when Rockefeller died in 1937 he had accrued a fortune equivalent to 12 times that of the Microsoft founder, Bill Gates. Rockefeller had also been a generous contributor to his church, Macedo noted.The church is currently splashing out on a replica of Solomon's Temple in S\u00e3o Paulo that will cost an estimated \u00a3130m.The \"mega-church\" will have space for 10,000 worshippers and will house a replica of the Ark of the Covenant.In a statement, the Universal Church rejected Monday's accusations.\"We cannot talk about something we know nothing about,\" the statement said.\"But from what we can tell through the media, these are the same old accusations \u2026 that have always been shown to be untrue.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Christianity", "Religion", "World news"], "title": "Brazil charges church leaders with embezzling millions from poor"},{"date": "2011-08-25T18:29:26Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Past a roadblock, improvised from charred tree trunks and concrete sewer pipes, sits a muscle-bound man in flip-flops, with an AR-15 assault rifle cradled in his lap.\"Crack is the devil in rock form,\" he says baldly. \"If one of my employees started smoking crack I'd confiscate his gun and kick him out of the gang.\"The man is a drug boss from one of Rio de Janeiro's three main drug factions. He sells crack from his shanty town on the city's western edge, in the latest scourge to afflict Rio.Until recently the city's gangsters largely refused to sell crack, fearful of the effect it would have on their clientele. But over the past few years economics have trumped good sense. The floodgates have opened.\"The use of crack is growing at a terrifying rate. In the last four years it has grown a great deal,\" says Julio Cesar Pereira de Oliveira, the director of a dilapidated civil police jail in northern Rio, where 10 damp and overcrowded cells are now packed with more than 360 prisoners, many of them addicts.\"The majority are in here because of drugs,\" he says, reeling off a list of the most common drug-related crimes, according to their numbers in the Brazilian penal code: \"155. 157. 121. 33.\" Theft. Armed robbery. Homicide. Drug trafficking.Rio is one of the last parts of Brazil to experience the crack epidemic, which now stretches from remote Amazon towns to the country's more affluent south and south-east.According to recent reports in the Brazilian press, police in the north-eastern state of Pernambuco have seized the equivalent of 6.8m rocks of crack this year alone.Before her historic election win last year, Brazil's president, Dilma Rousseff, appeared in a televised campaign, telling the nation: \"Crack is a crime against people, a crime against our youth and a crime against Brazil.\"A \u00a3155m anti-crack plan was unveiled by the federal government last year and in February Rousseff announced nationwide plans to train nearly 15,000 health agents to deal with crack addicts. But at street level the scale of the challenge becomes clear.\"Crack is terrible. It just makes people kill, rob and destroy other people's families,\" says Rafael Barbosa dos Santos, a 22-year-old father of two and one of dozens of addicts detained by police after a dawn raid on one drug market in the Morro do Cajueiro favela.\"I'd been there since Saturday,\" he says. \"Today is Thursday. I was taking drugs. Your money runs out and you still want to smoke more, so you have to go on to the streets to steal, to beg. It's dog eat dog \u2013 either you make it work or you die trying.\"A few miles away, in the hilltop Jorge Turco favela, a police operative pulls back a filthy bedsheet and steps into the area's crack house \u2013 an abandoned, redbrick shack at one of the slum's entrances. \"We come and burn it down and they clean it up again,\" he complains. \"We come here frequently. We come here and kick them out. But when we leave, they come back.\"Inside, two addicts lay on sofas, oblivious to the police presence. Melted plastic cups, used to smoke the drug, littered the floor. A sudden volley of automatic fire signals the demise of one local gang member, gunned down by police further up the hill. Still the addicts snooze.\"Crack is the church's biggest challenge at the moment,\" said Claudio Ferreira, a 33-year-old preacher who conducts his own \"spiritual\" raids in Rio's crack dens, searching for lost souls. \"But the Bible teaches us that what is impossible for man is not impossible for God. I believe that out of every 100 addicts, five will hear the word and manage not to use crack any more. That is a victory. Society is lost. Society thinks these people have no future. In saving five lives we are victorious.\"In Rio, a growing public outcry over the spread of crack has prompted action. Since late May, authorities have conducted almost weekly raids on the city's cracolandias, the name given here to open-air crack markets that operate in and around several of Rio's most notorious favelas. Those detained are, controversially, being forced to undergo compulsory detox treatment in four rehab centres.But preachers remain unconvinced that the cleanup will work. \"Unfortunately, society will not do anything. Society takes them to recovery centres for treatment \u2026 but it doesn't work. One month or two weeks later they are back on the streets,\" says Ferreira during a midnight incursion into a crack den, deep inside a favela.\"The only way for a crack addict to recover is through the word of Christ.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Drugs trade", "World news", "Drugs", "Society", "Global development"], "title": "Crack cocaine epidemic sweeps Brazil from the Amazon to Rio"},{"date": "2011-12-19T21:00:06Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Two articles on Brazil within days, one on converting guns to World Cup goalposts (15 December), the other about drug smuggling (18 December). I'm just back from a research visit to Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. There I saw a country whose redistributionist President Lula left office in 2010 with an 83% approval rating, and whose current President Dilma's rating is \"only\" 72%. Where there are no fees for those who can get in to study at its internationally respected public universities. Where there are over 2,500 peer-reviewed academic journals. Where there is a national development bank, four times the size of the World Bank, with its own credit card scheme for SMEs at less-than-market credit card interest rates. Where there are phenomenally stocked newspaper and magazine kiosks on every other downtown corner. Where people sit in cafes and bars, eat healthily, and get on with each other, irrespective of whether their ethnic origins are European, Japanese, African, Arab, or Jewish. This benign Brazil might be only half the story. But it's not your fantasy criminal Brazil. Oh, and I landed in Manchester in a Brazilian-built Embraer aeroplane.Professor Bill CookeLancaster University", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Letters: Brazil beckons"},{"date": "2011-12-19T21:00:06Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Two articles on Brazil within days, one on converting guns to World Cup goalposts (15 December), the other about drug smuggling (18 December). I'm just back from a research visit to Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. There I saw a country whose redistributionist President Lula left office in 2010 with an 83% approval rating, and whose current President Dilma's rating is \"only\" 72%. Where there are no fees for those who can get in to study at its internationally respected public universities. Where there are over 2,500 peer-reviewed academic journals. Where there is a national development bank, four times the size of the World Bank, with its own credit card scheme for SMEs at less-than-market credit card interest rates. Where there are phenomenally stocked newspaper and magazine kiosks on every other downtown corner. Where people sit in cafes and bars, eat healthily, and get on with each other, irrespective of whether their ethnic origins are European, Japanese, African, Arab, or Jewish. This benign Brazil might be only half the story. But it's not your fantasy criminal Brazil. Oh, and I landed in Manchester in a Brazilian-built Embraer aeroplane.Professor Bill CookeLancaster University", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Letters: Brazil beckons"},{"date": "2011-12-26T00:05:29Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has overtaken the UK to become the world's sixth-largest economy, according to a team of economists. The banking crash of 2008 and the subsequent recession has relegated the UK to seventh place in 2011, behind South America's largest economy, which has boomed on the back of exports to China and the far east.Russia and India are expected to benefit from a surge in growth over the next 10\u00a0years and push the UK into eighth place. Like most economies, India is struggling with high inflation and slowing growth, but its highly educated workforce and skills in growth areas from IT and services to engineering will push the economy into fifth place. After a decade of selling oil and gas to Europe and other parts of Asia, Russia will be at number four.The only compensation for ministers concerned by Britain's relative fall is that France will fall at a faster pace. Nicolas Sarkozy can still boast that France is the fifth-largest economy behind the US at number one, China, Japan and Germany, but by 2020, the Centre for Economics and business Research (CEBR) forecasts it will fall past the UK into ninth spot. Germany will also slip to seventh place in 2020.CEBR chief executive Douglas McWilliams said: \"Brazil has beaten the European countries at soccer for a long time, but beating them at economics is a new phenomenon. Our world economic league table shows how the economic map is changing, with Asian countries and commodity-producing economies climbing up the league while we in Europe fall back.\"Europe is expected to suffer a \"lost decade\" of low growth following a credit binge over the past 20 years. Paying back debts over a short timescale will restrict growth and prevent many countries, including the UK, from clawing back output lost in the banking crash for many years.The European Union, recently described by one Chinese official as \"a worn-out welfare society\", will remain the world's largest collective trading bloc, though a recession next year is expected to hit global growth. The latest forecasts by the CEBR show world growth falling to 2.5% in 2012, a downward revision from the forecast made in September.However, the CEBR warned a scenario involving \"one or more countries leaving the euro, sovereign defaults and banks going bust and needing to be bailed out\" would reduce global growth in 2012 to 1.1%. The European growth slowdown is forecast to be even more marked, with a fall in GDP by 0.6% and a possible fall of 2% if the euro currency club breaks up. The US forecast is better, with growth of 1.8%.Emerging economies, which have seen their stock markets dive in recent months as investors assess the fallout from the euro crisis, would regain their momentum, said the CEBR.China is forecast to grow by 7.6% and India by 6%. But other recent star economies with closer links to the EU or commodity prices are likely to face an economic slowdown with Turkish growth slowing to 2.5% from 7.1% this year, Saudi Arabia at 4% after 6.1% this year, Russia 2.8% after 3.8% this year, and Brazil 2.5% after 2.8% this year.", "tags": ["Economic growth (GDP)", "Economics", "Business", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil overtakes UK as sixth-largest economy"},{"date": "2011-12-19T21:00:06Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Two articles on Brazil within days, one on converting guns to World Cup goalposts (15 December), the other about drug smuggling (18 December). I'm just back from a research visit to Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. There I saw a country whose redistributionist President Lula left office in 2010 with an 83% approval rating, and whose current President Dilma's rating is \"only\" 72%. Where there are no fees for those who can get in to study at its internationally respected public universities. Where there are over 2,500 peer-reviewed academic journals. Where there is a national development bank, four times the size of the World Bank, with its own credit card scheme for SMEs at less-than-market credit card interest rates. Where there are phenomenally stocked newspaper and magazine kiosks on every other downtown corner. Where people sit in cafes and bars, eat healthily, and get on with each other, irrespective of whether their ethnic origins are European, Japanese, African, Arab, or Jewish. This benign Brazil might be only half the story. But it's not your fantasy criminal Brazil. Oh, and I landed in Manchester in a Brazilian-built Embraer aeroplane.Professor Bill CookeLancaster University", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Letters: Brazil beckons"},{"date": "2011-12-26T00:05:29Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has overtaken the UK to become the world's sixth-largest economy, according to a team of economists. The banking crash of 2008 and the subsequent recession has relegated the UK to seventh place in 2011, behind South America's largest economy, which has boomed on the back of exports to China and the far east.Russia and India are expected to benefit from a surge in growth over the next 10\u00a0years and push the UK into eighth place. Like most economies, India is struggling with high inflation and slowing growth, but its highly educated workforce and skills in growth areas from IT and services to engineering will push the economy into fifth place. After a decade of selling oil and gas to Europe and other parts of Asia, Russia will be at number four.The only compensation for ministers concerned by Britain's relative fall is that France will fall at a faster pace. Nicolas Sarkozy can still boast that France is the fifth-largest economy behind the US at number one, China, Japan and Germany, but by 2020, the Centre for Economics and business Research (CEBR) forecasts it will fall past the UK into ninth spot. Germany will also slip to seventh place in 2020.CEBR chief executive Douglas McWilliams said: \"Brazil has beaten the European countries at soccer for a long time, but beating them at economics is a new phenomenon. Our world economic league table shows how the economic map is changing, with Asian countries and commodity-producing economies climbing up the league while we in Europe fall back.\"Europe is expected to suffer a \"lost decade\" of low growth following a credit binge over the past 20 years. Paying back debts over a short timescale will restrict growth and prevent many countries, including the UK, from clawing back output lost in the banking crash for many years.The European Union, recently described by one Chinese official as \"a worn-out welfare society\", will remain the world's largest collective trading bloc, though a recession next year is expected to hit global growth. The latest forecasts by the CEBR show world growth falling to 2.5% in 2012, a downward revision from the forecast made in September.However, the CEBR warned a scenario involving \"one or more countries leaving the euro, sovereign defaults and banks going bust and needing to be bailed out\" would reduce global growth in 2012 to 1.1%. The European growth slowdown is forecast to be even more marked, with a fall in GDP by 0.6% and a possible fall of 2% if the euro currency club breaks up. The US forecast is better, with growth of 1.8%.Emerging economies, which have seen their stock markets dive in recent months as investors assess the fallout from the euro crisis, would regain their momentum, said the CEBR.China is forecast to grow by 7.6% and India by 6%. But other recent star economies with closer links to the EU or commodity prices are likely to face an economic slowdown with Turkish growth slowing to 2.5% from 7.1% this year, Saudi Arabia at 4% after 6.1% this year, Russia 2.8% after 3.8% this year, and Brazil 2.5% after 2.8% this year.", "tags": ["Economic growth (GDP)", "Economics", "Business", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil overtakes UK as sixth-largest economy"},{"date": "2011-12-18T19:28:58Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Early one October morning, Jo\u00e3o Geraldo de Almeida climbed out of bed and set off for the barbecue of his life.Escorted by a convoy of armed police, he climbed into the mountains outside Brazil's third largest city, strapped on a face mask and set fire to nearly six tons of illegal drugs. \"It was the biggest quantity of drugs we'd ever burned,\" boasted Almeida, head of the Federal Police drug squad in the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais.The annual incineration of police hauls of marijuana and cocaine is nothing new to South America, home to some of the biggest coca fields and marijuana plantations on Earth. But among Almeida's haul was a more unusual find: about 70,000 ecstasy pills and 16,000 tabs of LSD.The drugs pointed to a growing phenomenon: the use of so-called \"synthetic\" drugs such as ecstasy, MDMA powder and GHB in South America's largest nation.Brazil remains one of the largest cocaine consumers in the world and a major transit point for the drug. But a recent report by the UN's Office on Drugs and Crime suggested consumption of synthetic drugs, stable or falling in much of Europe, is on the rise in Brazil and other South American countries.The demand for such drugs has spawned a new generation of drug mules. In Brazil they call them \"narco-turistas\".\"They are passengers who leave the country, spend 10 days sightseeing in Europe and then come back with the drugs. They fake a holiday,\" said Almeida in Belo Horizonte, capital of Minas Gerais. \"If you look at their cameras they'll have a whole load of photographs of tourist spots, sometimes even from several different countries.\"Brazil's narco-turistas bear little resemblance to South America's traditional drug mules \u2013 desperate, cash-strapped locals, Africans or Europeans, who smuggle stomachs or suitcases of cocaine from airport to airport for a fraction of their cargo's worth.Instead, security officials say narco-turistas are well-off, university-educated Brazilians. \"They are much harder to locate because they blend in with your average passenger,\" said Almeida. \"They're not like your traditional drug mules whom you can spot in the airport queue. They are middle class and upwards. They are never poor.\"Foreign mules are regularly caught trying to ferry South American cocaine back to Europe \u2013 this year Romanian, Spanish and Polish citizens have been arrested at Belo Horizonte's Confins airport. But the narco-turistas are exclusively Brazilian. Normally they have no criminal record. They are often students, nearly always men, nearly always wealthy.\"In our investigations we have come across a lot of high-level people,\" said Almeida, his desk stacked with sky-blue investigation files. \"We've arrested lawyers, doctors, business people, the owner of one gym. These are people who go to Europe a lot. They are students, they might have studied in Europe, or been on tourism trips there, or business trips.\"Thanks to its booming economy \u2013 mineral-rich Minas Gerais is Brazil's third richest state \u2013 and improved flight connections to Europe, Belo Horizonte has become a key entry point for such traffickers. Of about 194,000 ecstasy pills seized by police in Brazil so far this year, 92,000 were seized in Minas Gerais, Almeida said. Nearly all were found at the city's Confins airport, from which there are direct flights to Lisbon. From Portugal, narco-turistas fly to other European countries to pick up the drugs, with Belgium and Holland two of the key pick-up points.\"100% of the drugs we are seeing here are coming from overseas. None of them are produced here [in Brazil]. None of our investigations have led us to believe that there might be an [ecstasy laboratory] here in Belo Horizonte,\" said Almeida.A report released in September by the EU's border management agency, Frontex, claimed the narco-turistas believed they were less likely to be caught at airports such as Confins.\"The target airports are not the ones in Rio de Janeiro and S\u00e3o Paulo, the main international hubs in the country. Rather, because of the belief that the larger airports are more closely and thoroughly watched, traffickers prefer to use secondary hubs such as the airports in Belo Horizonte, Salvador and Recife, where direct flights to Portugal, Spain, France and Germany are available.\"The growing role of the narco-turistas has underlined how Brazil's drug scene is no longer just about rolled-up banknotes and furtive trips to the bathroom.In 2001 Brazil's federal police reported seizing 1,909 ecstasy pills at the country's borders and airports. Ten years on, that figure has mutiplied by 100.After a July operation that dismantled an ecstasy trafficking ring which had been importing 30,000 pills each month from Holland, drug squad chief Jo\u00e3o Luiz Caetano de Ara\u00fajo said: \"Synthetic drugs are slowly replacing cocaine consumption.\"\"It is a cleaner drug, it is easier to sell and it is consumed more by the middle class,\" he told the Brazilian news magazine Veja.Next year the changing habits of Brazilian drug users will make their big screen debut, with the release of Artificial Paradises, a feature film focusing on \"Brazil's ecstasy generation\".", "tags": ["Brazil", "Drugs trade", "Europe", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil ecstasy haul points to new generation of drug mules"},{"date": "2011-12-19T21:00:06Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Two articles on Brazil within days, one on converting guns to World Cup goalposts (15 December), the other about drug smuggling (18 December). I'm just back from a research visit to Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. There I saw a country whose redistributionist President Lula left office in 2010 with an 83% approval rating, and whose current President Dilma's rating is \"only\" 72%. Where there are no fees for those who can get in to study at its internationally respected public universities. Where there are over 2,500 peer-reviewed academic journals. Where there is a national development bank, four times the size of the World Bank, with its own credit card scheme for SMEs at less-than-market credit card interest rates. Where there are phenomenally stocked newspaper and magazine kiosks on every other downtown corner. Where people sit in cafes and bars, eat healthily, and get on with each other, irrespective of whether their ethnic origins are European, Japanese, African, Arab, or Jewish. This benign Brazil might be only half the story. But it's not your fantasy criminal Brazil. Oh, and I landed in Manchester in a Brazilian-built Embraer aeroplane.Professor Bill CookeLancaster University", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Letters: Brazil beckons"},{"date": "2011-12-26T00:05:29Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has overtaken the UK to become the world's sixth-largest economy, according to a team of economists. The banking crash of 2008 and the subsequent recession has relegated the UK to seventh place in 2011, behind South America's largest economy, which has boomed on the back of exports to China and the far east.Russia and India are expected to benefit from a surge in growth over the next 10\u00a0years and push the UK into eighth place. Like most economies, India is struggling with high inflation and slowing growth, but its highly educated workforce and skills in growth areas from IT and services to engineering will push the economy into fifth place. After a decade of selling oil and gas to Europe and other parts of Asia, Russia will be at number four.The only compensation for ministers concerned by Britain's relative fall is that France will fall at a faster pace. Nicolas Sarkozy can still boast that France is the fifth-largest economy behind the US at number one, China, Japan and Germany, but by 2020, the Centre for Economics and business Research (CEBR) forecasts it will fall past the UK into ninth spot. Germany will also slip to seventh place in 2020.CEBR chief executive Douglas McWilliams said: \"Brazil has beaten the European countries at soccer for a long time, but beating them at economics is a new phenomenon. Our world economic league table shows how the economic map is changing, with Asian countries and commodity-producing economies climbing up the league while we in Europe fall back.\"Europe is expected to suffer a \"lost decade\" of low growth following a credit binge over the past 20 years. Paying back debts over a short timescale will restrict growth and prevent many countries, including the UK, from clawing back output lost in the banking crash for many years.The European Union, recently described by one Chinese official as \"a worn-out welfare society\", will remain the world's largest collective trading bloc, though a recession next year is expected to hit global growth. The latest forecasts by the CEBR show world growth falling to 2.5% in 2012, a downward revision from the forecast made in September.However, the CEBR warned a scenario involving \"one or more countries leaving the euro, sovereign defaults and banks going bust and needing to be bailed out\" would reduce global growth in 2012 to 1.1%. The European growth slowdown is forecast to be even more marked, with a fall in GDP by 0.6% and a possible fall of 2% if the euro currency club breaks up. The US forecast is better, with growth of 1.8%.Emerging economies, which have seen their stock markets dive in recent months as investors assess the fallout from the euro crisis, would regain their momentum, said the CEBR.China is forecast to grow by 7.6% and India by 6%. But other recent star economies with closer links to the EU or commodity prices are likely to face an economic slowdown with Turkish growth slowing to 2.5% from 7.1% this year, Saudi Arabia at 4% after 6.1% this year, Russia 2.8% after 3.8% this year, and Brazil 2.5% after 2.8% this year.", "tags": ["Economic growth (GDP)", "Economics", "Business", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil overtakes UK as sixth-largest economy"},{"date": "2011-12-18T19:28:58Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Early one October morning, Jo\u00e3o Geraldo de Almeida climbed out of bed and set off for the barbecue of his life.Escorted by a convoy of armed police, he climbed into the mountains outside Brazil's third largest city, strapped on a face mask and set fire to nearly six tons of illegal drugs. \"It was the biggest quantity of drugs we'd ever burned,\" boasted Almeida, head of the Federal Police drug squad in the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais.The annual incineration of police hauls of marijuana and cocaine is nothing new to South America, home to some of the biggest coca fields and marijuana plantations on Earth. But among Almeida's haul was a more unusual find: about 70,000 ecstasy pills and 16,000 tabs of LSD.The drugs pointed to a growing phenomenon: the use of so-called \"synthetic\" drugs such as ecstasy, MDMA powder and GHB in South America's largest nation.Brazil remains one of the largest cocaine consumers in the world and a major transit point for the drug. But a recent report by the UN's Office on Drugs and Crime suggested consumption of synthetic drugs, stable or falling in much of Europe, is on the rise in Brazil and other South American countries.The demand for such drugs has spawned a new generation of drug mules. In Brazil they call them \"narco-turistas\".\"They are passengers who leave the country, spend 10 days sightseeing in Europe and then come back with the drugs. They fake a holiday,\" said Almeida in Belo Horizonte, capital of Minas Gerais. \"If you look at their cameras they'll have a whole load of photographs of tourist spots, sometimes even from several different countries.\"Brazil's narco-turistas bear little resemblance to South America's traditional drug mules \u2013 desperate, cash-strapped locals, Africans or Europeans, who smuggle stomachs or suitcases of cocaine from airport to airport for a fraction of their cargo's worth.Instead, security officials say narco-turistas are well-off, university-educated Brazilians. \"They are much harder to locate because they blend in with your average passenger,\" said Almeida. \"They're not like your traditional drug mules whom you can spot in the airport queue. They are middle class and upwards. They are never poor.\"Foreign mules are regularly caught trying to ferry South American cocaine back to Europe \u2013 this year Romanian, Spanish and Polish citizens have been arrested at Belo Horizonte's Confins airport. But the narco-turistas are exclusively Brazilian. Normally they have no criminal record. They are often students, nearly always men, nearly always wealthy.\"In our investigations we have come across a lot of high-level people,\" said Almeida, his desk stacked with sky-blue investigation files. \"We've arrested lawyers, doctors, business people, the owner of one gym. These are people who go to Europe a lot. They are students, they might have studied in Europe, or been on tourism trips there, or business trips.\"Thanks to its booming economy \u2013 mineral-rich Minas Gerais is Brazil's third richest state \u2013 and improved flight connections to Europe, Belo Horizonte has become a key entry point for such traffickers. Of about 194,000 ecstasy pills seized by police in Brazil so far this year, 92,000 were seized in Minas Gerais, Almeida said. Nearly all were found at the city's Confins airport, from which there are direct flights to Lisbon. From Portugal, narco-turistas fly to other European countries to pick up the drugs, with Belgium and Holland two of the key pick-up points.\"100% of the drugs we are seeing here are coming from overseas. None of them are produced here [in Brazil]. None of our investigations have led us to believe that there might be an [ecstasy laboratory] here in Belo Horizonte,\" said Almeida.A report released in September by the EU's border management agency, Frontex, claimed the narco-turistas believed they were less likely to be caught at airports such as Confins.\"The target airports are not the ones in Rio de Janeiro and S\u00e3o Paulo, the main international hubs in the country. Rather, because of the belief that the larger airports are more closely and thoroughly watched, traffickers prefer to use secondary hubs such as the airports in Belo Horizonte, Salvador and Recife, where direct flights to Portugal, Spain, France and Germany are available.\"The growing role of the narco-turistas has underlined how Brazil's drug scene is no longer just about rolled-up banknotes and furtive trips to the bathroom.In 2001 Brazil's federal police reported seizing 1,909 ecstasy pills at the country's borders and airports. Ten years on, that figure has mutiplied by 100.After a July operation that dismantled an ecstasy trafficking ring which had been importing 30,000 pills each month from Holland, drug squad chief Jo\u00e3o Luiz Caetano de Ara\u00fajo said: \"Synthetic drugs are slowly replacing cocaine consumption.\"\"It is a cleaner drug, it is easier to sell and it is consumed more by the middle class,\" he told the Brazilian news magazine Veja.Next year the changing habits of Brazilian drug users will make their big screen debut, with the release of Artificial Paradises, a feature film focusing on \"Brazil's ecstasy generation\".", "tags": ["Brazil", "Drugs trade", "Europe", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil ecstasy haul points to new generation of drug mules"},{"date": "2011-10-31T14:56:38Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A leading anti-mafia campaigner and MP is preparing to flee Brazil after receiving a barrage of death threats from Rio de Janeiro's powerful and violent mafia.Marcelo Freixo, a veteran human rights activist known for his outreach work in Rio's prisons and favelas, announced on Monday that he was leaving Brazil with the support of Amnesty International. Aides did not say in which country Freixo and his family would seek refuge.Freixo's decision came after security authorities received credible reports of a plot to assassinate him. In August, Patricia Acioli, a prominent anti-mafia judge, was shot dead, hit by 21 police-issue bullets.A former member of Rio-based human rights group Justi\u00e7a Global, 44-year-old Freixo was elected to Rio's state parliament in 2006, the same year his brother was assassinated by gunmen.In 2008 he presided over a parliamentary inquiry into Rio's mafia: groups of off-duty police officers, prison guards and firemen known here as milicias. The inquiry was set up after two undercover journalists and their driver were kidnapped and tortured by milicia members while preparing an expos\u00e9 of their activities in one Rio slum.Freixo's outspoken stance against Rio's mafia has led to regular death threats. Since 2008 he has been forced to use a bulletproof car and 24-hour security detail.\"I didn't do this because I was born to be a hero,\" Freixo told the Guardian last year shortly before being re-elected for a second term. \"It is my obligation.\"In a 2008 interview, inside his chambers in central Rio, a visibly exhausted Freixo spoke of how the death threats had altered his life.\"Everything has changed. I have to go everywhere with bodyguards. I have a bulletproof car. I go out far less. I have to constantly change my routine. There are parts of Rio I can't go to anymore,\" he complained.\"It's really bad. You lose your freedom and it becomes tiring. You get tired. But there's nothing that can be done. Anyone who gets involved in this fight knows that these things are going to happen ... I have to do it.\"Freixo spoke at length about the brutal tactics employed by the milicias, now said to control at least 300 areas of Rio. One group's trademark was executing its enemies with a single rifle shot to the face, he said.\"They are capable of doing something. They have in the past. So I have to take care.\"Freixo, who hopes to run for mayor in 2012, vowed to return home.\"I am leaving the country but this is not a retreat. It does not mean I regret taking on the mafia. I will return and I will keep fighting,\" he told Rio newspaper O Globo on the eve of his departure.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news", "Mafia", "Organised crime"], "title": "Mafia assassination threat forces Brazil MP into exile"},{"date": "2011-12-19T21:00:06Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Two articles on Brazil within days, one on converting guns to World Cup goalposts (15 December), the other about drug smuggling (18 December). I'm just back from a research visit to Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. There I saw a country whose redistributionist President Lula left office in 2010 with an 83% approval rating, and whose current President Dilma's rating is \"only\" 72%. Where there are no fees for those who can get in to study at its internationally respected public universities. Where there are over 2,500 peer-reviewed academic journals. Where there is a national development bank, four times the size of the World Bank, with its own credit card scheme for SMEs at less-than-market credit card interest rates. Where there are phenomenally stocked newspaper and magazine kiosks on every other downtown corner. Where people sit in cafes and bars, eat healthily, and get on with each other, irrespective of whether their ethnic origins are European, Japanese, African, Arab, or Jewish. This benign Brazil might be only half the story. But it's not your fantasy criminal Brazil. Oh, and I landed in Manchester in a Brazilian-built Embraer aeroplane.Professor Bill CookeLancaster University", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Letters: Brazil beckons"},{"date": "2011-12-26T00:05:29Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has overtaken the UK to become the world's sixth-largest economy, according to a team of economists. The banking crash of 2008 and the subsequent recession has relegated the UK to seventh place in 2011, behind South America's largest economy, which has boomed on the back of exports to China and the far east.Russia and India are expected to benefit from a surge in growth over the next 10\u00a0years and push the UK into eighth place. Like most economies, India is struggling with high inflation and slowing growth, but its highly educated workforce and skills in growth areas from IT and services to engineering will push the economy into fifth place. After a decade of selling oil and gas to Europe and other parts of Asia, Russia will be at number four.The only compensation for ministers concerned by Britain's relative fall is that France will fall at a faster pace. Nicolas Sarkozy can still boast that France is the fifth-largest economy behind the US at number one, China, Japan and Germany, but by 2020, the Centre for Economics and business Research (CEBR) forecasts it will fall past the UK into ninth spot. Germany will also slip to seventh place in 2020.CEBR chief executive Douglas McWilliams said: \"Brazil has beaten the European countries at soccer for a long time, but beating them at economics is a new phenomenon. Our world economic league table shows how the economic map is changing, with Asian countries and commodity-producing economies climbing up the league while we in Europe fall back.\"Europe is expected to suffer a \"lost decade\" of low growth following a credit binge over the past 20 years. Paying back debts over a short timescale will restrict growth and prevent many countries, including the UK, from clawing back output lost in the banking crash for many years.The European Union, recently described by one Chinese official as \"a worn-out welfare society\", will remain the world's largest collective trading bloc, though a recession next year is expected to hit global growth. The latest forecasts by the CEBR show world growth falling to 2.5% in 2012, a downward revision from the forecast made in September.However, the CEBR warned a scenario involving \"one or more countries leaving the euro, sovereign defaults and banks going bust and needing to be bailed out\" would reduce global growth in 2012 to 1.1%. The European growth slowdown is forecast to be even more marked, with a fall in GDP by 0.6% and a possible fall of 2% if the euro currency club breaks up. The US forecast is better, with growth of 1.8%.Emerging economies, which have seen their stock markets dive in recent months as investors assess the fallout from the euro crisis, would regain their momentum, said the CEBR.China is forecast to grow by 7.6% and India by 6%. But other recent star economies with closer links to the EU or commodity prices are likely to face an economic slowdown with Turkish growth slowing to 2.5% from 7.1% this year, Saudi Arabia at 4% after 6.1% this year, Russia 2.8% after 3.8% this year, and Brazil 2.5% after 2.8% this year.", "tags": ["Economic growth (GDP)", "Economics", "Business", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil overtakes UK as sixth-largest economy"},{"date": "2011-12-18T19:28:58Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Early one October morning, Jo\u00e3o Geraldo de Almeida climbed out of bed and set off for the barbecue of his life.Escorted by a convoy of armed police, he climbed into the mountains outside Brazil's third largest city, strapped on a face mask and set fire to nearly six tons of illegal drugs. \"It was the biggest quantity of drugs we'd ever burned,\" boasted Almeida, head of the Federal Police drug squad in the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais.The annual incineration of police hauls of marijuana and cocaine is nothing new to South America, home to some of the biggest coca fields and marijuana plantations on Earth. But among Almeida's haul was a more unusual find: about 70,000 ecstasy pills and 16,000 tabs of LSD.The drugs pointed to a growing phenomenon: the use of so-called \"synthetic\" drugs such as ecstasy, MDMA powder and GHB in South America's largest nation.Brazil remains one of the largest cocaine consumers in the world and a major transit point for the drug. But a recent report by the UN's Office on Drugs and Crime suggested consumption of synthetic drugs, stable or falling in much of Europe, is on the rise in Brazil and other South American countries.The demand for such drugs has spawned a new generation of drug mules. In Brazil they call them \"narco-turistas\".\"They are passengers who leave the country, spend 10 days sightseeing in Europe and then come back with the drugs. They fake a holiday,\" said Almeida in Belo Horizonte, capital of Minas Gerais. \"If you look at their cameras they'll have a whole load of photographs of tourist spots, sometimes even from several different countries.\"Brazil's narco-turistas bear little resemblance to South America's traditional drug mules \u2013 desperate, cash-strapped locals, Africans or Europeans, who smuggle stomachs or suitcases of cocaine from airport to airport for a fraction of their cargo's worth.Instead, security officials say narco-turistas are well-off, university-educated Brazilians. \"They are much harder to locate because they blend in with your average passenger,\" said Almeida. \"They're not like your traditional drug mules whom you can spot in the airport queue. They are middle class and upwards. They are never poor.\"Foreign mules are regularly caught trying to ferry South American cocaine back to Europe \u2013 this year Romanian, Spanish and Polish citizens have been arrested at Belo Horizonte's Confins airport. But the narco-turistas are exclusively Brazilian. Normally they have no criminal record. They are often students, nearly always men, nearly always wealthy.\"In our investigations we have come across a lot of high-level people,\" said Almeida, his desk stacked with sky-blue investigation files. \"We've arrested lawyers, doctors, business people, the owner of one gym. These are people who go to Europe a lot. They are students, they might have studied in Europe, or been on tourism trips there, or business trips.\"Thanks to its booming economy \u2013 mineral-rich Minas Gerais is Brazil's third richest state \u2013 and improved flight connections to Europe, Belo Horizonte has become a key entry point for such traffickers. Of about 194,000 ecstasy pills seized by police in Brazil so far this year, 92,000 were seized in Minas Gerais, Almeida said. Nearly all were found at the city's Confins airport, from which there are direct flights to Lisbon. From Portugal, narco-turistas fly to other European countries to pick up the drugs, with Belgium and Holland two of the key pick-up points.\"100% of the drugs we are seeing here are coming from overseas. None of them are produced here [in Brazil]. None of our investigations have led us to believe that there might be an [ecstasy laboratory] here in Belo Horizonte,\" said Almeida.A report released in September by the EU's border management agency, Frontex, claimed the narco-turistas believed they were less likely to be caught at airports such as Confins.\"The target airports are not the ones in Rio de Janeiro and S\u00e3o Paulo, the main international hubs in the country. Rather, because of the belief that the larger airports are more closely and thoroughly watched, traffickers prefer to use secondary hubs such as the airports in Belo Horizonte, Salvador and Recife, where direct flights to Portugal, Spain, France and Germany are available.\"The growing role of the narco-turistas has underlined how Brazil's drug scene is no longer just about rolled-up banknotes and furtive trips to the bathroom.In 2001 Brazil's federal police reported seizing 1,909 ecstasy pills at the country's borders and airports. Ten years on, that figure has mutiplied by 100.After a July operation that dismantled an ecstasy trafficking ring which had been importing 30,000 pills each month from Holland, drug squad chief Jo\u00e3o Luiz Caetano de Ara\u00fajo said: \"Synthetic drugs are slowly replacing cocaine consumption.\"\"It is a cleaner drug, it is easier to sell and it is consumed more by the middle class,\" he told the Brazilian news magazine Veja.Next year the changing habits of Brazilian drug users will make their big screen debut, with the release of Artificial Paradises, a feature film focusing on \"Brazil's ecstasy generation\".", "tags": ["Brazil", "Drugs trade", "Europe", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil ecstasy haul points to new generation of drug mules"},{"date": "2011-10-31T14:56:38Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A leading anti-mafia campaigner and MP is preparing to flee Brazil after receiving a barrage of death threats from Rio de Janeiro's powerful and violent mafia.Marcelo Freixo, a veteran human rights activist known for his outreach work in Rio's prisons and favelas, announced on Monday that he was leaving Brazil with the support of Amnesty International. Aides did not say in which country Freixo and his family would seek refuge.Freixo's decision came after security authorities received credible reports of a plot to assassinate him. In August, Patricia Acioli, a prominent anti-mafia judge, was shot dead, hit by 21 police-issue bullets.A former member of Rio-based human rights group Justi\u00e7a Global, 44-year-old Freixo was elected to Rio's state parliament in 2006, the same year his brother was assassinated by gunmen.In 2008 he presided over a parliamentary inquiry into Rio's mafia: groups of off-duty police officers, prison guards and firemen known here as milicias. The inquiry was set up after two undercover journalists and their driver were kidnapped and tortured by milicia members while preparing an expos\u00e9 of their activities in one Rio slum.Freixo's outspoken stance against Rio's mafia has led to regular death threats. Since 2008 he has been forced to use a bulletproof car and 24-hour security detail.\"I didn't do this because I was born to be a hero,\" Freixo told the Guardian last year shortly before being re-elected for a second term. \"It is my obligation.\"In a 2008 interview, inside his chambers in central Rio, a visibly exhausted Freixo spoke of how the death threats had altered his life.\"Everything has changed. I have to go everywhere with bodyguards. I have a bulletproof car. I go out far less. I have to constantly change my routine. There are parts of Rio I can't go to anymore,\" he complained.\"It's really bad. You lose your freedom and it becomes tiring. You get tired. But there's nothing that can be done. Anyone who gets involved in this fight knows that these things are going to happen ... I have to do it.\"Freixo spoke at length about the brutal tactics employed by the milicias, now said to control at least 300 areas of Rio. One group's trademark was executing its enemies with a single rifle shot to the face, he said.\"They are capable of doing something. They have in the past. So I have to take care.\"Freixo, who hopes to run for mayor in 2012, vowed to return home.\"I am leaving the country but this is not a retreat. It does not mean I regret taking on the mafia. I will return and I will keep fighting,\" he told Rio newspaper O Globo on the eve of his departure.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news", "Mafia", "Organised crime"], "title": "Mafia assassination threat forces Brazil MP into exile"},{"date": "2011-10-27T17:17:24Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "From his 19th-floor newsroom Eur\u00edpedes Alc\u00e2ntara enjoys a spectacular view over the \"new Brazil\"; helicopters flit through the afternoon sky, shiny new cars honk their way across town, tower blocks and luxury shopping centres sprout like turnips from the urban sprawl.But Alc\u00e2ntara, one of the country's most powerful journalists, also stares out at the old Brazil; a place of political wheeler-dealing, kick-backs and endemic corruption that costs billions each year and continues to slow the rise of this South American giant.As executive editor of the influential and divisive news weekly Veja, Alc\u00e2ntara believes it is his calling to stop the sleaze. \"It is a civilisational clash. What kind of country do we want to be?\" he said.\"The majority of people play by the rules, they work from sunrise to sunset and pay their taxes as much as they can. Yet another portion lives dangling off the state apparatus, living off deals with people who have the keys to the safe. We see [uncovering corruption] as our mission.\"2011 will go down in Brazilian history as the year that Dilma Rousseff, its first female president, came to power. But it may also be remembered as the year in which public frustration over rampant political corruption finally boiled over.Since Rousseff came to office in January, five ministers have been toppled by ethics or corruption scandals, the latest being Orlando Silva, the sports minister, who resigned on Wednesday after Veja alleged he was involved in a \u00a314m corruption racket.Nationwide protests, while timid compared to those in Chile or the Middle East, have brought tens of thousands to the streets to demand an end to the looting of public money.With the word corruption on everyone's lips, the Brazilian media has played a lead role in unearthing the wrongdoings of some of the country's most powerful politicians. In June Rousseff's powerful chief-of-staff, Antonio Palocci, was forced to resign after the Folha de S\u00e3o Paulo newspaper revealed his personal fortune had grown 20-fold in a four-year period.Three months later the same newspaper helped dethrone the country's tourism minister, Pedro Novais, 81, who had previously been accused of using public money to bankroll a late-night party inside a sex-motel called The Caribbean. Novais's bill at the motel \u2013 where rooms fitted with swimming pools, saunas and circular beds are rented for \u00a335 for three hours \u2013 reportedly came to around \u00a3767.Veja's reporting, meanwhile, has brought down the agriculture minister Wagner Rossi, accused of misusing public money, the transport minister, Alfredo Nascimento, with an expose detailing an alleged bribery scheme within his ministry, and this week the sports minister.\"[The politicians] all say: 'When I get a call from Veja it's because my life is about to get worse,\" Alc\u00e2ntara chuckled. \"[But] it brings me no pleasure \u2026 I don't see it as a victory.\"\"It's not a campaign \u2026 but it is an obsession,\" added the 55-year-old editor, whose latest front page carried the headline Ten Reasons to Get Angry About Corruption. The inside story pointed out that with the R$85bn (\u00a330bn) of public money siphoned off each year, the government could eradicate poverty, build 1.5m homes \u2013 or purchase 18m designer handbags.Alc\u00e2ntara \u2013 whose magazine claims a weekly circulation of 1.2m and an estimated readership of between 6 and 10 million \u2013 admitted that most of Veja's corruption scoops originated from tipoffs from people often themselves implicated in the murky underbelly of Brazilian politics.\"We don't have a Delta Force. We have receptors,\" he said, pointing to the magazine's newsrooms in S\u00e3o Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and the political capital, Bras\u00edlia, where 78 reporters were instructed to keep their eyes and ears open for signs of dodgy dealings, whether covering science, transport or the arts.Untangling Veja's own politics from its anti-corruption crusade is complex.The magazine is widely loathed by Brazil's left, who claim it is inherently biased against the ruling Workers' party and its allies, and pays undue attention to the peccadilloes of politicians from these parties, while brushing over those of its friends.Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, Brazil's first working-class president, enjoyed a particularly turbulent relationship with the magazine during his eight years in office. \"Let's be frank, some of Veja's journalists deserve the Nobel prize for irresponsibility,\" Lula said in 2006, following a story claiming that he and his allies held secret overseas bank accounts. \"Veja does not publish accusations. Veja publishes lies.\"Alc\u00e2ntara has kinder words for Rousseff, Lula's successor, who has embarked upon what has been dubbed a \"house cleaning\", ejecting a total of six ministers during her 10 months in power.\"It seems to me that she is much more intolerant with corruption than [Lula],\" he said. \"Dilma, in both word and action, has shown much greater intolerance and a greater understanding of the disgrace that corruption is in this country. There now exists a strong awareness, and I think much of it is down to the president, that this kind of extortion is unacceptable.\"Rousseff's stance against sleaze and the near constant media coverage has bolstered a wave of protests across Brazil.\"How is it that such a rich, large country has such high levels of poverty? One of the explanations without doubt is endemic, historic corruption,\" said Ant\u00f4nio Carlos Costa, head of the anti-violence NGO Rio de Paz during one recent event, which drew around 2,500 protesters.\"We are talking about something that links all the spheres of power. That goes from the narco-traffickers to the members of congress. It pollutes everything; it undermines all our relationships. The only way to combat this is with dedication and perseverance.\"Natalia Lebeis, 23, had also turned out for the protest \u2013 dressed as a clown.\"People say Brazilians only take to the streets to watch football or for carnival,\" she said. \"We are the voice of our nation. I think it's time for people to show their faces and speak out against corruption and impunity.\"Alc\u00e2ntara, a one-time New York correspondent whose latest story was a three-page interview with Neil Young, looked to Paul McCartney to capture his feelings on Brazil's chances of winning its war on graft.\"It is a tug-of-war,\" he said, referring to the ex-Beatle's 1982 track. \"A tug-of-war between those who want to take us back into the 19th century and those trying to pull us into the 21st century. I'm an optimist \u2013 I think the 21st century will win.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "Dilma Rousseff", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "World news", "Media"], "title": "Brazil is the latest country to get angry about corruption"},{"date": "2011-12-19T21:00:06Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Two articles on Brazil within days, one on converting guns to World Cup goalposts (15 December), the other about drug smuggling (18 December). I'm just back from a research visit to Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. There I saw a country whose redistributionist President Lula left office in 2010 with an 83% approval rating, and whose current President Dilma's rating is \"only\" 72%. Where there are no fees for those who can get in to study at its internationally respected public universities. Where there are over 2,500 peer-reviewed academic journals. Where there is a national development bank, four times the size of the World Bank, with its own credit card scheme for SMEs at less-than-market credit card interest rates. Where there are phenomenally stocked newspaper and magazine kiosks on every other downtown corner. Where people sit in cafes and bars, eat healthily, and get on with each other, irrespective of whether their ethnic origins are European, Japanese, African, Arab, or Jewish. This benign Brazil might be only half the story. But it's not your fantasy criminal Brazil. Oh, and I landed in Manchester in a Brazilian-built Embraer aeroplane.Professor Bill CookeLancaster University", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Letters: Brazil beckons"},{"date": "2011-12-26T00:05:29Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has overtaken the UK to become the world's sixth-largest economy, according to a team of economists. The banking crash of 2008 and the subsequent recession has relegated the UK to seventh place in 2011, behind South America's largest economy, which has boomed on the back of exports to China and the far east.Russia and India are expected to benefit from a surge in growth over the next 10\u00a0years and push the UK into eighth place. Like most economies, India is struggling with high inflation and slowing growth, but its highly educated workforce and skills in growth areas from IT and services to engineering will push the economy into fifth place. After a decade of selling oil and gas to Europe and other parts of Asia, Russia will be at number four.The only compensation for ministers concerned by Britain's relative fall is that France will fall at a faster pace. Nicolas Sarkozy can still boast that France is the fifth-largest economy behind the US at number one, China, Japan and Germany, but by 2020, the Centre for Economics and business Research (CEBR) forecasts it will fall past the UK into ninth spot. Germany will also slip to seventh place in 2020.CEBR chief executive Douglas McWilliams said: \"Brazil has beaten the European countries at soccer for a long time, but beating them at economics is a new phenomenon. Our world economic league table shows how the economic map is changing, with Asian countries and commodity-producing economies climbing up the league while we in Europe fall back.\"Europe is expected to suffer a \"lost decade\" of low growth following a credit binge over the past 20 years. Paying back debts over a short timescale will restrict growth and prevent many countries, including the UK, from clawing back output lost in the banking crash for many years.The European Union, recently described by one Chinese official as \"a worn-out welfare society\", will remain the world's largest collective trading bloc, though a recession next year is expected to hit global growth. The latest forecasts by the CEBR show world growth falling to 2.5% in 2012, a downward revision from the forecast made in September.However, the CEBR warned a scenario involving \"one or more countries leaving the euro, sovereign defaults and banks going bust and needing to be bailed out\" would reduce global growth in 2012 to 1.1%. The European growth slowdown is forecast to be even more marked, with a fall in GDP by 0.6% and a possible fall of 2% if the euro currency club breaks up. The US forecast is better, with growth of 1.8%.Emerging economies, which have seen their stock markets dive in recent months as investors assess the fallout from the euro crisis, would regain their momentum, said the CEBR.China is forecast to grow by 7.6% and India by 6%. But other recent star economies with closer links to the EU or commodity prices are likely to face an economic slowdown with Turkish growth slowing to 2.5% from 7.1% this year, Saudi Arabia at 4% after 6.1% this year, Russia 2.8% after 3.8% this year, and Brazil 2.5% after 2.8% this year.", "tags": ["Economic growth (GDP)", "Economics", "Business", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil overtakes UK as sixth-largest economy"},{"date": "2011-12-18T19:28:58Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Early one October morning, Jo\u00e3o Geraldo de Almeida climbed out of bed and set off for the barbecue of his life.Escorted by a convoy of armed police, he climbed into the mountains outside Brazil's third largest city, strapped on a face mask and set fire to nearly six tons of illegal drugs. \"It was the biggest quantity of drugs we'd ever burned,\" boasted Almeida, head of the Federal Police drug squad in the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais.The annual incineration of police hauls of marijuana and cocaine is nothing new to South America, home to some of the biggest coca fields and marijuana plantations on Earth. But among Almeida's haul was a more unusual find: about 70,000 ecstasy pills and 16,000 tabs of LSD.The drugs pointed to a growing phenomenon: the use of so-called \"synthetic\" drugs such as ecstasy, MDMA powder and GHB in South America's largest nation.Brazil remains one of the largest cocaine consumers in the world and a major transit point for the drug. But a recent report by the UN's Office on Drugs and Crime suggested consumption of synthetic drugs, stable or falling in much of Europe, is on the rise in Brazil and other South American countries.The demand for such drugs has spawned a new generation of drug mules. In Brazil they call them \"narco-turistas\".\"They are passengers who leave the country, spend 10 days sightseeing in Europe and then come back with the drugs. They fake a holiday,\" said Almeida in Belo Horizonte, capital of Minas Gerais. \"If you look at their cameras they'll have a whole load of photographs of tourist spots, sometimes even from several different countries.\"Brazil's narco-turistas bear little resemblance to South America's traditional drug mules \u2013 desperate, cash-strapped locals, Africans or Europeans, who smuggle stomachs or suitcases of cocaine from airport to airport for a fraction of their cargo's worth.Instead, security officials say narco-turistas are well-off, university-educated Brazilians. \"They are much harder to locate because they blend in with your average passenger,\" said Almeida. \"They're not like your traditional drug mules whom you can spot in the airport queue. They are middle class and upwards. They are never poor.\"Foreign mules are regularly caught trying to ferry South American cocaine back to Europe \u2013 this year Romanian, Spanish and Polish citizens have been arrested at Belo Horizonte's Confins airport. But the narco-turistas are exclusively Brazilian. Normally they have no criminal record. They are often students, nearly always men, nearly always wealthy.\"In our investigations we have come across a lot of high-level people,\" said Almeida, his desk stacked with sky-blue investigation files. \"We've arrested lawyers, doctors, business people, the owner of one gym. These are people who go to Europe a lot. They are students, they might have studied in Europe, or been on tourism trips there, or business trips.\"Thanks to its booming economy \u2013 mineral-rich Minas Gerais is Brazil's third richest state \u2013 and improved flight connections to Europe, Belo Horizonte has become a key entry point for such traffickers. Of about 194,000 ecstasy pills seized by police in Brazil so far this year, 92,000 were seized in Minas Gerais, Almeida said. Nearly all were found at the city's Confins airport, from which there are direct flights to Lisbon. From Portugal, narco-turistas fly to other European countries to pick up the drugs, with Belgium and Holland two of the key pick-up points.\"100% of the drugs we are seeing here are coming from overseas. None of them are produced here [in Brazil]. None of our investigations have led us to believe that there might be an [ecstasy laboratory] here in Belo Horizonte,\" said Almeida.A report released in September by the EU's border management agency, Frontex, claimed the narco-turistas believed they were less likely to be caught at airports such as Confins.\"The target airports are not the ones in Rio de Janeiro and S\u00e3o Paulo, the main international hubs in the country. Rather, because of the belief that the larger airports are more closely and thoroughly watched, traffickers prefer to use secondary hubs such as the airports in Belo Horizonte, Salvador and Recife, where direct flights to Portugal, Spain, France and Germany are available.\"The growing role of the narco-turistas has underlined how Brazil's drug scene is no longer just about rolled-up banknotes and furtive trips to the bathroom.In 2001 Brazil's federal police reported seizing 1,909 ecstasy pills at the country's borders and airports. Ten years on, that figure has mutiplied by 100.After a July operation that dismantled an ecstasy trafficking ring which had been importing 30,000 pills each month from Holland, drug squad chief Jo\u00e3o Luiz Caetano de Ara\u00fajo said: \"Synthetic drugs are slowly replacing cocaine consumption.\"\"It is a cleaner drug, it is easier to sell and it is consumed more by the middle class,\" he told the Brazilian news magazine Veja.Next year the changing habits of Brazilian drug users will make their big screen debut, with the release of Artificial Paradises, a feature film focusing on \"Brazil's ecstasy generation\".", "tags": ["Brazil", "Drugs trade", "Europe", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil ecstasy haul points to new generation of drug mules"},{"date": "2011-10-31T14:56:38Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A leading anti-mafia campaigner and MP is preparing to flee Brazil after receiving a barrage of death threats from Rio de Janeiro's powerful and violent mafia.Marcelo Freixo, a veteran human rights activist known for his outreach work in Rio's prisons and favelas, announced on Monday that he was leaving Brazil with the support of Amnesty International. Aides did not say in which country Freixo and his family would seek refuge.Freixo's decision came after security authorities received credible reports of a plot to assassinate him. In August, Patricia Acioli, a prominent anti-mafia judge, was shot dead, hit by 21 police-issue bullets.A former member of Rio-based human rights group Justi\u00e7a Global, 44-year-old Freixo was elected to Rio's state parliament in 2006, the same year his brother was assassinated by gunmen.In 2008 he presided over a parliamentary inquiry into Rio's mafia: groups of off-duty police officers, prison guards and firemen known here as milicias. The inquiry was set up after two undercover journalists and their driver were kidnapped and tortured by milicia members while preparing an expos\u00e9 of their activities in one Rio slum.Freixo's outspoken stance against Rio's mafia has led to regular death threats. Since 2008 he has been forced to use a bulletproof car and 24-hour security detail.\"I didn't do this because I was born to be a hero,\" Freixo told the Guardian last year shortly before being re-elected for a second term. \"It is my obligation.\"In a 2008 interview, inside his chambers in central Rio, a visibly exhausted Freixo spoke of how the death threats had altered his life.\"Everything has changed. I have to go everywhere with bodyguards. I have a bulletproof car. I go out far less. I have to constantly change my routine. There are parts of Rio I can't go to anymore,\" he complained.\"It's really bad. You lose your freedom and it becomes tiring. You get tired. But there's nothing that can be done. Anyone who gets involved in this fight knows that these things are going to happen ... I have to do it.\"Freixo spoke at length about the brutal tactics employed by the milicias, now said to control at least 300 areas of Rio. One group's trademark was executing its enemies with a single rifle shot to the face, he said.\"They are capable of doing something. They have in the past. So I have to take care.\"Freixo, who hopes to run for mayor in 2012, vowed to return home.\"I am leaving the country but this is not a retreat. It does not mean I regret taking on the mafia. I will return and I will keep fighting,\" he told Rio newspaper O Globo on the eve of his departure.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news", "Mafia", "Organised crime"], "title": "Mafia assassination threat forces Brazil MP into exile"},{"date": "2011-10-27T17:17:24Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "From his 19th-floor newsroom Eur\u00edpedes Alc\u00e2ntara enjoys a spectacular view over the \"new Brazil\"; helicopters flit through the afternoon sky, shiny new cars honk their way across town, tower blocks and luxury shopping centres sprout like turnips from the urban sprawl.But Alc\u00e2ntara, one of the country's most powerful journalists, also stares out at the old Brazil; a place of political wheeler-dealing, kick-backs and endemic corruption that costs billions each year and continues to slow the rise of this South American giant.As executive editor of the influential and divisive news weekly Veja, Alc\u00e2ntara believes it is his calling to stop the sleaze. \"It is a civilisational clash. What kind of country do we want to be?\" he said.\"The majority of people play by the rules, they work from sunrise to sunset and pay their taxes as much as they can. Yet another portion lives dangling off the state apparatus, living off deals with people who have the keys to the safe. We see [uncovering corruption] as our mission.\"2011 will go down in Brazilian history as the year that Dilma Rousseff, its first female president, came to power. But it may also be remembered as the year in which public frustration over rampant political corruption finally boiled over.Since Rousseff came to office in January, five ministers have been toppled by ethics or corruption scandals, the latest being Orlando Silva, the sports minister, who resigned on Wednesday after Veja alleged he was involved in a \u00a314m corruption racket.Nationwide protests, while timid compared to those in Chile or the Middle East, have brought tens of thousands to the streets to demand an end to the looting of public money.With the word corruption on everyone's lips, the Brazilian media has played a lead role in unearthing the wrongdoings of some of the country's most powerful politicians. In June Rousseff's powerful chief-of-staff, Antonio Palocci, was forced to resign after the Folha de S\u00e3o Paulo newspaper revealed his personal fortune had grown 20-fold in a four-year period.Three months later the same newspaper helped dethrone the country's tourism minister, Pedro Novais, 81, who had previously been accused of using public money to bankroll a late-night party inside a sex-motel called The Caribbean. Novais's bill at the motel \u2013 where rooms fitted with swimming pools, saunas and circular beds are rented for \u00a335 for three hours \u2013 reportedly came to around \u00a3767.Veja's reporting, meanwhile, has brought down the agriculture minister Wagner Rossi, accused of misusing public money, the transport minister, Alfredo Nascimento, with an expose detailing an alleged bribery scheme within his ministry, and this week the sports minister.\"[The politicians] all say: 'When I get a call from Veja it's because my life is about to get worse,\" Alc\u00e2ntara chuckled. \"[But] it brings me no pleasure \u2026 I don't see it as a victory.\"\"It's not a campaign \u2026 but it is an obsession,\" added the 55-year-old editor, whose latest front page carried the headline Ten Reasons to Get Angry About Corruption. The inside story pointed out that with the R$85bn (\u00a330bn) of public money siphoned off each year, the government could eradicate poverty, build 1.5m homes \u2013 or purchase 18m designer handbags.Alc\u00e2ntara \u2013 whose magazine claims a weekly circulation of 1.2m and an estimated readership of between 6 and 10 million \u2013 admitted that most of Veja's corruption scoops originated from tipoffs from people often themselves implicated in the murky underbelly of Brazilian politics.\"We don't have a Delta Force. We have receptors,\" he said, pointing to the magazine's newsrooms in S\u00e3o Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and the political capital, Bras\u00edlia, where 78 reporters were instructed to keep their eyes and ears open for signs of dodgy dealings, whether covering science, transport or the arts.Untangling Veja's own politics from its anti-corruption crusade is complex.The magazine is widely loathed by Brazil's left, who claim it is inherently biased against the ruling Workers' party and its allies, and pays undue attention to the peccadilloes of politicians from these parties, while brushing over those of its friends.Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, Brazil's first working-class president, enjoyed a particularly turbulent relationship with the magazine during his eight years in office. \"Let's be frank, some of Veja's journalists deserve the Nobel prize for irresponsibility,\" Lula said in 2006, following a story claiming that he and his allies held secret overseas bank accounts. \"Veja does not publish accusations. Veja publishes lies.\"Alc\u00e2ntara has kinder words for Rousseff, Lula's successor, who has embarked upon what has been dubbed a \"house cleaning\", ejecting a total of six ministers during her 10 months in power.\"It seems to me that she is much more intolerant with corruption than [Lula],\" he said. \"Dilma, in both word and action, has shown much greater intolerance and a greater understanding of the disgrace that corruption is in this country. There now exists a strong awareness, and I think much of it is down to the president, that this kind of extortion is unacceptable.\"Rousseff's stance against sleaze and the near constant media coverage has bolstered a wave of protests across Brazil.\"How is it that such a rich, large country has such high levels of poverty? One of the explanations without doubt is endemic, historic corruption,\" said Ant\u00f4nio Carlos Costa, head of the anti-violence NGO Rio de Paz during one recent event, which drew around 2,500 protesters.\"We are talking about something that links all the spheres of power. That goes from the narco-traffickers to the members of congress. It pollutes everything; it undermines all our relationships. The only way to combat this is with dedication and perseverance.\"Natalia Lebeis, 23, had also turned out for the protest \u2013 dressed as a clown.\"People say Brazilians only take to the streets to watch football or for carnival,\" she said. \"We are the voice of our nation. I think it's time for people to show their faces and speak out against corruption and impunity.\"Alc\u00e2ntara, a one-time New York correspondent whose latest story was a three-page interview with Neil Young, looked to Paul McCartney to capture his feelings on Brazil's chances of winning its war on graft.\"It is a tug-of-war,\" he said, referring to the ex-Beatle's 1982 track. \"A tug-of-war between those who want to take us back into the 19th century and those trying to pull us into the 21st century. I'm an optimist \u2013 I think the 21st century will win.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "Dilma Rousseff", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "World news", "Media"], "title": "Brazil is the latest country to get angry about corruption"},{"date": "2011-10-28T10:38:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It is a good time to be a Brazilian on the international stage. Brazil has the eighth largest economy in the world, and the \"traditional donors\" want to know what the country is thinking. In fact, with an aid programme of under $1bn (according to official estimates), it commands far more interest than it probably should. Why? Because Brazil is the future. When leaders in poor countries sit down to plan their way out of poverty, they don't look to emulate Britain. They say: \"We want to be an emerging economy, like Brazil.\"The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD) Economic Survey of Brazil, which was published on Wednesday, confirms this advance in terms of economic growth and poverty reduction (although the much-lauded reduction in inequality can be overstated, coming as it does in one of the world's most unequal countries).In the space of a decade, Brazil has transformed its international presence. Its international development strategy is part of that. According to This is Africa, trade between Brazil and Africa has grown from $5bn in 2003 to more than $20bn in 2010 (over a third of which is with one country, Nigeria). President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, whose vision defined this bold declaration of international relevance, established 17 new embassies in Africa and visited 23 countries on the continent.Marco Farani, the director of the Brazilian aid agency, is well aware of the political and economic benefits of Brazil's new positioning as a player in the international development field, but insists the body's motives are pure. \"I have never been told to work in a country for strategic reasons,\" he said in a debate in Parliament on Monday, organised by the Overseas Development Institute (ODI) and the All Party Group on Overseas Development (Apgood).Farani is the leader of a growing team \u2013 under his tenure, staff numbers have risen from 70 to 160 \u2013 but, far from worrying about Brazil's status as new kids on the block, his attitude to strategy is relaxed. \"We don't have a strategy\", he states proudly. Farani's preference is to respond to requests for support rather than engaging in comprehensive strategic planning. \"There will come a time when we will be richer and more rigid and perhaps then less creative, more boring,\" he says.On monitoring and evaluation, he favours intuition over rigorous analysis for now. \"Everywhere I go on my country visits, people tell me how much they like what we are doing,\" he says. With other countries, one might assume such expressions of goodwill stemmed from a desire to maintain good relations; in the case of Brazil, it's just possible they're sincere.Eventually, Brazil will need to become more strategic and engage in the more rigorous elements of impact assessment that denote a professional outfit accountable to citizens (downwards) and the international community (upwards). The OECD is helping the country to record its data better, but Brazil is determined to do things its own way.The main difference between Brazil (and other emerging powers) and traditional donors is that they still have to fight extreme poverty at home. Brazil has tens of millions of very poor people. The UK's Department for International Development (DfID) has led the way in recent years in insisting all aid must pass the simple test of primarily benefitting the poorest. Perhaps Brazil should embed this poverty focus as well, but with a twist, based on the idea of mutual benefit. Not only should the poorest in the partner country benefit from international co-operation, but also the domestic poor. Solidarity and accountability should exist not only between governments, but between peoples.The Brazilian NGO community already understands the potential of this new internationalist vision. Building on years of leadership, symbolised by the groundbreaking World Social Forums that started in Porto Alegre in 2001, some in Brazilian civil society want to become world players, competing with the big northern NGOs in shaping the international debate, not just the domestic one.Brazil continues to receive about 0.025% of its annual income in aid, as it has for the past two decades. This is roughly the same amount as its own aid programme. According to traditional, post-colonial aid dynamics, there is little sense in both giving and receiving aid. But this conception is being recast. It makes perfect sense in the new era to give and receive aid \u2013 it is part of mutuality. As if to underscore the point, Farani gave as his examples agricultural co-operation support to Japan (the third richest country in the world) and Ghana.Again, civil society organisations are keen to ensure that foreign money continues to help fund their activities. Issues of inequality, environmental degradation and land rights remain complex issues in Brazil, and the international community must continue to play a crucial part in supporting just outcomes for the poorest in Brazil.I believe Brazil should learn from DfID and the other successful aid agencies, but not emulate them, influencing the debate at international development fora but without getting sidetracked into the technocratic results mantra. In short, Brazil must blaze a new trail in international co-operation. Not that Farani needs much encouragement to do that. We will know in a few years how successful he has been.", "tags": ["Global development", "Aid", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil can blaze a new trail in international co-operation"},{"date": "2011-12-19T21:00:06Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Two articles on Brazil within days, one on converting guns to World Cup goalposts (15 December), the other about drug smuggling (18 December). I'm just back from a research visit to Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. There I saw a country whose redistributionist President Lula left office in 2010 with an 83% approval rating, and whose current President Dilma's rating is \"only\" 72%. Where there are no fees for those who can get in to study at its internationally respected public universities. Where there are over 2,500 peer-reviewed academic journals. Where there is a national development bank, four times the size of the World Bank, with its own credit card scheme for SMEs at less-than-market credit card interest rates. Where there are phenomenally stocked newspaper and magazine kiosks on every other downtown corner. Where people sit in cafes and bars, eat healthily, and get on with each other, irrespective of whether their ethnic origins are European, Japanese, African, Arab, or Jewish. This benign Brazil might be only half the story. But it's not your fantasy criminal Brazil. Oh, and I landed in Manchester in a Brazilian-built Embraer aeroplane.Professor Bill CookeLancaster University", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Letters: Brazil beckons"},{"date": "2011-12-26T00:05:29Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has overtaken the UK to become the world's sixth-largest economy, according to a team of economists. The banking crash of 2008 and the subsequent recession has relegated the UK to seventh place in 2011, behind South America's largest economy, which has boomed on the back of exports to China and the far east.Russia and India are expected to benefit from a surge in growth over the next 10\u00a0years and push the UK into eighth place. Like most economies, India is struggling with high inflation and slowing growth, but its highly educated workforce and skills in growth areas from IT and services to engineering will push the economy into fifth place. After a decade of selling oil and gas to Europe and other parts of Asia, Russia will be at number four.The only compensation for ministers concerned by Britain's relative fall is that France will fall at a faster pace. Nicolas Sarkozy can still boast that France is the fifth-largest economy behind the US at number one, China, Japan and Germany, but by 2020, the Centre for Economics and business Research (CEBR) forecasts it will fall past the UK into ninth spot. Germany will also slip to seventh place in 2020.CEBR chief executive Douglas McWilliams said: \"Brazil has beaten the European countries at soccer for a long time, but beating them at economics is a new phenomenon. Our world economic league table shows how the economic map is changing, with Asian countries and commodity-producing economies climbing up the league while we in Europe fall back.\"Europe is expected to suffer a \"lost decade\" of low growth following a credit binge over the past 20 years. Paying back debts over a short timescale will restrict growth and prevent many countries, including the UK, from clawing back output lost in the banking crash for many years.The European Union, recently described by one Chinese official as \"a worn-out welfare society\", will remain the world's largest collective trading bloc, though a recession next year is expected to hit global growth. The latest forecasts by the CEBR show world growth falling to 2.5% in 2012, a downward revision from the forecast made in September.However, the CEBR warned a scenario involving \"one or more countries leaving the euro, sovereign defaults and banks going bust and needing to be bailed out\" would reduce global growth in 2012 to 1.1%. The European growth slowdown is forecast to be even more marked, with a fall in GDP by 0.6% and a possible fall of 2% if the euro currency club breaks up. The US forecast is better, with growth of 1.8%.Emerging economies, which have seen their stock markets dive in recent months as investors assess the fallout from the euro crisis, would regain their momentum, said the CEBR.China is forecast to grow by 7.6% and India by 6%. But other recent star economies with closer links to the EU or commodity prices are likely to face an economic slowdown with Turkish growth slowing to 2.5% from 7.1% this year, Saudi Arabia at 4% after 6.1% this year, Russia 2.8% after 3.8% this year, and Brazil 2.5% after 2.8% this year.", "tags": ["Economic growth (GDP)", "Economics", "Business", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil overtakes UK as sixth-largest economy"},{"date": "2011-12-18T19:28:58Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Early one October morning, Jo\u00e3o Geraldo de Almeida climbed out of bed and set off for the barbecue of his life.Escorted by a convoy of armed police, he climbed into the mountains outside Brazil's third largest city, strapped on a face mask and set fire to nearly six tons of illegal drugs. \"It was the biggest quantity of drugs we'd ever burned,\" boasted Almeida, head of the Federal Police drug squad in the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais.The annual incineration of police hauls of marijuana and cocaine is nothing new to South America, home to some of the biggest coca fields and marijuana plantations on Earth. But among Almeida's haul was a more unusual find: about 70,000 ecstasy pills and 16,000 tabs of LSD.The drugs pointed to a growing phenomenon: the use of so-called \"synthetic\" drugs such as ecstasy, MDMA powder and GHB in South America's largest nation.Brazil remains one of the largest cocaine consumers in the world and a major transit point for the drug. But a recent report by the UN's Office on Drugs and Crime suggested consumption of synthetic drugs, stable or falling in much of Europe, is on the rise in Brazil and other South American countries.The demand for such drugs has spawned a new generation of drug mules. In Brazil they call them \"narco-turistas\".\"They are passengers who leave the country, spend 10 days sightseeing in Europe and then come back with the drugs. They fake a holiday,\" said Almeida in Belo Horizonte, capital of Minas Gerais. \"If you look at their cameras they'll have a whole load of photographs of tourist spots, sometimes even from several different countries.\"Brazil's narco-turistas bear little resemblance to South America's traditional drug mules \u2013 desperate, cash-strapped locals, Africans or Europeans, who smuggle stomachs or suitcases of cocaine from airport to airport for a fraction of their cargo's worth.Instead, security officials say narco-turistas are well-off, university-educated Brazilians. \"They are much harder to locate because they blend in with your average passenger,\" said Almeida. \"They're not like your traditional drug mules whom you can spot in the airport queue. They are middle class and upwards. They are never poor.\"Foreign mules are regularly caught trying to ferry South American cocaine back to Europe \u2013 this year Romanian, Spanish and Polish citizens have been arrested at Belo Horizonte's Confins airport. But the narco-turistas are exclusively Brazilian. Normally they have no criminal record. They are often students, nearly always men, nearly always wealthy.\"In our investigations we have come across a lot of high-level people,\" said Almeida, his desk stacked with sky-blue investigation files. \"We've arrested lawyers, doctors, business people, the owner of one gym. These are people who go to Europe a lot. They are students, they might have studied in Europe, or been on tourism trips there, or business trips.\"Thanks to its booming economy \u2013 mineral-rich Minas Gerais is Brazil's third richest state \u2013 and improved flight connections to Europe, Belo Horizonte has become a key entry point for such traffickers. Of about 194,000 ecstasy pills seized by police in Brazil so far this year, 92,000 were seized in Minas Gerais, Almeida said. Nearly all were found at the city's Confins airport, from which there are direct flights to Lisbon. From Portugal, narco-turistas fly to other European countries to pick up the drugs, with Belgium and Holland two of the key pick-up points.\"100% of the drugs we are seeing here are coming from overseas. None of them are produced here [in Brazil]. None of our investigations have led us to believe that there might be an [ecstasy laboratory] here in Belo Horizonte,\" said Almeida.A report released in September by the EU's border management agency, Frontex, claimed the narco-turistas believed they were less likely to be caught at airports such as Confins.\"The target airports are not the ones in Rio de Janeiro and S\u00e3o Paulo, the main international hubs in the country. Rather, because of the belief that the larger airports are more closely and thoroughly watched, traffickers prefer to use secondary hubs such as the airports in Belo Horizonte, Salvador and Recife, where direct flights to Portugal, Spain, France and Germany are available.\"The growing role of the narco-turistas has underlined how Brazil's drug scene is no longer just about rolled-up banknotes and furtive trips to the bathroom.In 2001 Brazil's federal police reported seizing 1,909 ecstasy pills at the country's borders and airports. Ten years on, that figure has mutiplied by 100.After a July operation that dismantled an ecstasy trafficking ring which had been importing 30,000 pills each month from Holland, drug squad chief Jo\u00e3o Luiz Caetano de Ara\u00fajo said: \"Synthetic drugs are slowly replacing cocaine consumption.\"\"It is a cleaner drug, it is easier to sell and it is consumed more by the middle class,\" he told the Brazilian news magazine Veja.Next year the changing habits of Brazilian drug users will make their big screen debut, with the release of Artificial Paradises, a feature film focusing on \"Brazil's ecstasy generation\".", "tags": ["Brazil", "Drugs trade", "Europe", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil ecstasy haul points to new generation of drug mules"},{"date": "2011-10-31T14:56:38Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A leading anti-mafia campaigner and MP is preparing to flee Brazil after receiving a barrage of death threats from Rio de Janeiro's powerful and violent mafia.Marcelo Freixo, a veteran human rights activist known for his outreach work in Rio's prisons and favelas, announced on Monday that he was leaving Brazil with the support of Amnesty International. Aides did not say in which country Freixo and his family would seek refuge.Freixo's decision came after security authorities received credible reports of a plot to assassinate him. In August, Patricia Acioli, a prominent anti-mafia judge, was shot dead, hit by 21 police-issue bullets.A former member of Rio-based human rights group Justi\u00e7a Global, 44-year-old Freixo was elected to Rio's state parliament in 2006, the same year his brother was assassinated by gunmen.In 2008 he presided over a parliamentary inquiry into Rio's mafia: groups of off-duty police officers, prison guards and firemen known here as milicias. The inquiry was set up after two undercover journalists and their driver were kidnapped and tortured by milicia members while preparing an expos\u00e9 of their activities in one Rio slum.Freixo's outspoken stance against Rio's mafia has led to regular death threats. Since 2008 he has been forced to use a bulletproof car and 24-hour security detail.\"I didn't do this because I was born to be a hero,\" Freixo told the Guardian last year shortly before being re-elected for a second term. \"It is my obligation.\"In a 2008 interview, inside his chambers in central Rio, a visibly exhausted Freixo spoke of how the death threats had altered his life.\"Everything has changed. I have to go everywhere with bodyguards. I have a bulletproof car. I go out far less. I have to constantly change my routine. There are parts of Rio I can't go to anymore,\" he complained.\"It's really bad. You lose your freedom and it becomes tiring. You get tired. But there's nothing that can be done. Anyone who gets involved in this fight knows that these things are going to happen ... I have to do it.\"Freixo spoke at length about the brutal tactics employed by the milicias, now said to control at least 300 areas of Rio. One group's trademark was executing its enemies with a single rifle shot to the face, he said.\"They are capable of doing something. They have in the past. So I have to take care.\"Freixo, who hopes to run for mayor in 2012, vowed to return home.\"I am leaving the country but this is not a retreat. It does not mean I regret taking on the mafia. I will return and I will keep fighting,\" he told Rio newspaper O Globo on the eve of his departure.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news", "Mafia", "Organised crime"], "title": "Mafia assassination threat forces Brazil MP into exile"},{"date": "2011-10-27T17:17:24Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "From his 19th-floor newsroom Eur\u00edpedes Alc\u00e2ntara enjoys a spectacular view over the \"new Brazil\"; helicopters flit through the afternoon sky, shiny new cars honk their way across town, tower blocks and luxury shopping centres sprout like turnips from the urban sprawl.But Alc\u00e2ntara, one of the country's most powerful journalists, also stares out at the old Brazil; a place of political wheeler-dealing, kick-backs and endemic corruption that costs billions each year and continues to slow the rise of this South American giant.As executive editor of the influential and divisive news weekly Veja, Alc\u00e2ntara believes it is his calling to stop the sleaze. \"It is a civilisational clash. What kind of country do we want to be?\" he said.\"The majority of people play by the rules, they work from sunrise to sunset and pay their taxes as much as they can. Yet another portion lives dangling off the state apparatus, living off deals with people who have the keys to the safe. We see [uncovering corruption] as our mission.\"2011 will go down in Brazilian history as the year that Dilma Rousseff, its first female president, came to power. But it may also be remembered as the year in which public frustration over rampant political corruption finally boiled over.Since Rousseff came to office in January, five ministers have been toppled by ethics or corruption scandals, the latest being Orlando Silva, the sports minister, who resigned on Wednesday after Veja alleged he was involved in a \u00a314m corruption racket.Nationwide protests, while timid compared to those in Chile or the Middle East, have brought tens of thousands to the streets to demand an end to the looting of public money.With the word corruption on everyone's lips, the Brazilian media has played a lead role in unearthing the wrongdoings of some of the country's most powerful politicians. In June Rousseff's powerful chief-of-staff, Antonio Palocci, was forced to resign after the Folha de S\u00e3o Paulo newspaper revealed his personal fortune had grown 20-fold in a four-year period.Three months later the same newspaper helped dethrone the country's tourism minister, Pedro Novais, 81, who had previously been accused of using public money to bankroll a late-night party inside a sex-motel called The Caribbean. Novais's bill at the motel \u2013 where rooms fitted with swimming pools, saunas and circular beds are rented for \u00a335 for three hours \u2013 reportedly came to around \u00a3767.Veja's reporting, meanwhile, has brought down the agriculture minister Wagner Rossi, accused of misusing public money, the transport minister, Alfredo Nascimento, with an expose detailing an alleged bribery scheme within his ministry, and this week the sports minister.\"[The politicians] all say: 'When I get a call from Veja it's because my life is about to get worse,\" Alc\u00e2ntara chuckled. \"[But] it brings me no pleasure \u2026 I don't see it as a victory.\"\"It's not a campaign \u2026 but it is an obsession,\" added the 55-year-old editor, whose latest front page carried the headline Ten Reasons to Get Angry About Corruption. The inside story pointed out that with the R$85bn (\u00a330bn) of public money siphoned off each year, the government could eradicate poverty, build 1.5m homes \u2013 or purchase 18m designer handbags.Alc\u00e2ntara \u2013 whose magazine claims a weekly circulation of 1.2m and an estimated readership of between 6 and 10 million \u2013 admitted that most of Veja's corruption scoops originated from tipoffs from people often themselves implicated in the murky underbelly of Brazilian politics.\"We don't have a Delta Force. We have receptors,\" he said, pointing to the magazine's newsrooms in S\u00e3o Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and the political capital, Bras\u00edlia, where 78 reporters were instructed to keep their eyes and ears open for signs of dodgy dealings, whether covering science, transport or the arts.Untangling Veja's own politics from its anti-corruption crusade is complex.The magazine is widely loathed by Brazil's left, who claim it is inherently biased against the ruling Workers' party and its allies, and pays undue attention to the peccadilloes of politicians from these parties, while brushing over those of its friends.Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, Brazil's first working-class president, enjoyed a particularly turbulent relationship with the magazine during his eight years in office. \"Let's be frank, some of Veja's journalists deserve the Nobel prize for irresponsibility,\" Lula said in 2006, following a story claiming that he and his allies held secret overseas bank accounts. \"Veja does not publish accusations. Veja publishes lies.\"Alc\u00e2ntara has kinder words for Rousseff, Lula's successor, who has embarked upon what has been dubbed a \"house cleaning\", ejecting a total of six ministers during her 10 months in power.\"It seems to me that she is much more intolerant with corruption than [Lula],\" he said. \"Dilma, in both word and action, has shown much greater intolerance and a greater understanding of the disgrace that corruption is in this country. There now exists a strong awareness, and I think much of it is down to the president, that this kind of extortion is unacceptable.\"Rousseff's stance against sleaze and the near constant media coverage has bolstered a wave of protests across Brazil.\"How is it that such a rich, large country has such high levels of poverty? One of the explanations without doubt is endemic, historic corruption,\" said Ant\u00f4nio Carlos Costa, head of the anti-violence NGO Rio de Paz during one recent event, which drew around 2,500 protesters.\"We are talking about something that links all the spheres of power. That goes from the narco-traffickers to the members of congress. It pollutes everything; it undermines all our relationships. The only way to combat this is with dedication and perseverance.\"Natalia Lebeis, 23, had also turned out for the protest \u2013 dressed as a clown.\"People say Brazilians only take to the streets to watch football or for carnival,\" she said. \"We are the voice of our nation. I think it's time for people to show their faces and speak out against corruption and impunity.\"Alc\u00e2ntara, a one-time New York correspondent whose latest story was a three-page interview with Neil Young, looked to Paul McCartney to capture his feelings on Brazil's chances of winning its war on graft.\"It is a tug-of-war,\" he said, referring to the ex-Beatle's 1982 track. \"A tug-of-war between those who want to take us back into the 19th century and those trying to pull us into the 21st century. I'm an optimist \u2013 I think the 21st century will win.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "Dilma Rousseff", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "World news", "Media"], "title": "Brazil is the latest country to get angry about corruption"},{"date": "2011-10-28T10:38:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It is a good time to be a Brazilian on the international stage. Brazil has the eighth largest economy in the world, and the \"traditional donors\" want to know what the country is thinking. In fact, with an aid programme of under $1bn (according to official estimates), it commands far more interest than it probably should. Why? Because Brazil is the future. When leaders in poor countries sit down to plan their way out of poverty, they don't look to emulate Britain. They say: \"We want to be an emerging economy, like Brazil.\"The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD) Economic Survey of Brazil, which was published on Wednesday, confirms this advance in terms of economic growth and poverty reduction (although the much-lauded reduction in inequality can be overstated, coming as it does in one of the world's most unequal countries).In the space of a decade, Brazil has transformed its international presence. Its international development strategy is part of that. According to This is Africa, trade between Brazil and Africa has grown from $5bn in 2003 to more than $20bn in 2010 (over a third of which is with one country, Nigeria). President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, whose vision defined this bold declaration of international relevance, established 17 new embassies in Africa and visited 23 countries on the continent.Marco Farani, the director of the Brazilian aid agency, is well aware of the political and economic benefits of Brazil's new positioning as a player in the international development field, but insists the body's motives are pure. \"I have never been told to work in a country for strategic reasons,\" he said in a debate in Parliament on Monday, organised by the Overseas Development Institute (ODI) and the All Party Group on Overseas Development (Apgood).Farani is the leader of a growing team \u2013 under his tenure, staff numbers have risen from 70 to 160 \u2013 but, far from worrying about Brazil's status as new kids on the block, his attitude to strategy is relaxed. \"We don't have a strategy\", he states proudly. Farani's preference is to respond to requests for support rather than engaging in comprehensive strategic planning. \"There will come a time when we will be richer and more rigid and perhaps then less creative, more boring,\" he says.On monitoring and evaluation, he favours intuition over rigorous analysis for now. \"Everywhere I go on my country visits, people tell me how much they like what we are doing,\" he says. With other countries, one might assume such expressions of goodwill stemmed from a desire to maintain good relations; in the case of Brazil, it's just possible they're sincere.Eventually, Brazil will need to become more strategic and engage in the more rigorous elements of impact assessment that denote a professional outfit accountable to citizens (downwards) and the international community (upwards). The OECD is helping the country to record its data better, but Brazil is determined to do things its own way.The main difference between Brazil (and other emerging powers) and traditional donors is that they still have to fight extreme poverty at home. Brazil has tens of millions of very poor people. The UK's Department for International Development (DfID) has led the way in recent years in insisting all aid must pass the simple test of primarily benefitting the poorest. Perhaps Brazil should embed this poverty focus as well, but with a twist, based on the idea of mutual benefit. Not only should the poorest in the partner country benefit from international co-operation, but also the domestic poor. Solidarity and accountability should exist not only between governments, but between peoples.The Brazilian NGO community already understands the potential of this new internationalist vision. Building on years of leadership, symbolised by the groundbreaking World Social Forums that started in Porto Alegre in 2001, some in Brazilian civil society want to become world players, competing with the big northern NGOs in shaping the international debate, not just the domestic one.Brazil continues to receive about 0.025% of its annual income in aid, as it has for the past two decades. This is roughly the same amount as its own aid programme. According to traditional, post-colonial aid dynamics, there is little sense in both giving and receiving aid. But this conception is being recast. It makes perfect sense in the new era to give and receive aid \u2013 it is part of mutuality. As if to underscore the point, Farani gave as his examples agricultural co-operation support to Japan (the third richest country in the world) and Ghana.Again, civil society organisations are keen to ensure that foreign money continues to help fund their activities. Issues of inequality, environmental degradation and land rights remain complex issues in Brazil, and the international community must continue to play a crucial part in supporting just outcomes for the poorest in Brazil.I believe Brazil should learn from DfID and the other successful aid agencies, but not emulate them, influencing the debate at international development fora but without getting sidetracked into the technocratic results mantra. In short, Brazil must blaze a new trail in international co-operation. Not that Farani needs much encouragement to do that. We will know in a few years how successful he has been.", "tags": ["Global development", "Aid", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil can blaze a new trail in international co-operation"},{"date": "2011-12-30T09:26:02Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "With the UK market only open for half a day ahead of the new year celebrations, it was never going to be particularly busy, and so it is proving.The FTSE 100 has edged down 2.05 points to 5564.75, but to say volumes are light must be a late bid for understatement of the year.Still, gases group BG is in demand, up 23.5p at \u00a313.94 after more positive news from its operations off the coast of Brazil. Its partner Petrobras has submitted a declaration showing the Guara field in the Santos basin project - where BG holds 30% - was commercially viable. The Petrobas report effectively marks the start of the production phase, and was filed twelve months before the deadline. It showed excellent reservoirs with good quality oil, according to BG.Elsewhere, as gold regained some ground after recent losses, Russian precious metals miner Polymetal International has risen 22p to \u00a311.14.Despite Nationwide building society reporting a dip in December house prices, Barratt Developments added 1.85p to 90.5p on the theory things could have been worse.But Millennium and Copthorne Hotels fell 3.2p to 404.8p as Panmure Gordon began coverage of the hotels group with a sell recommendation and 343p target price. Analyst Simon French said:", "tags": ["Business", "BG", "Barratt Developments", "Millennium and Copthorne Hotels"], "title": "BG gains on positive Brazil news but FTSE ending 2011 with a whimper"},{"date": "2011-12-19T21:00:06Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Two articles on Brazil within days, one on converting guns to World Cup goalposts (15 December), the other about drug smuggling (18 December). I'm just back from a research visit to Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. There I saw a country whose redistributionist President Lula left office in 2010 with an 83% approval rating, and whose current President Dilma's rating is \"only\" 72%. Where there are no fees for those who can get in to study at its internationally respected public universities. Where there are over 2,500 peer-reviewed academic journals. Where there is a national development bank, four times the size of the World Bank, with its own credit card scheme for SMEs at less-than-market credit card interest rates. Where there are phenomenally stocked newspaper and magazine kiosks on every other downtown corner. Where people sit in cafes and bars, eat healthily, and get on with each other, irrespective of whether their ethnic origins are European, Japanese, African, Arab, or Jewish. This benign Brazil might be only half the story. But it's not your fantasy criminal Brazil. Oh, and I landed in Manchester in a Brazilian-built Embraer aeroplane.Professor Bill CookeLancaster University", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Letters: Brazil beckons"},{"date": "2011-12-26T00:05:29Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has overtaken the UK to become the world's sixth-largest economy, according to a team of economists. The banking crash of 2008 and the subsequent recession has relegated the UK to seventh place in 2011, behind South America's largest economy, which has boomed on the back of exports to China and the far east.Russia and India are expected to benefit from a surge in growth over the next 10\u00a0years and push the UK into eighth place. Like most economies, India is struggling with high inflation and slowing growth, but its highly educated workforce and skills in growth areas from IT and services to engineering will push the economy into fifth place. After a decade of selling oil and gas to Europe and other parts of Asia, Russia will be at number four.The only compensation for ministers concerned by Britain's relative fall is that France will fall at a faster pace. Nicolas Sarkozy can still boast that France is the fifth-largest economy behind the US at number one, China, Japan and Germany, but by 2020, the Centre for Economics and business Research (CEBR) forecasts it will fall past the UK into ninth spot. Germany will also slip to seventh place in 2020.CEBR chief executive Douglas McWilliams said: \"Brazil has beaten the European countries at soccer for a long time, but beating them at economics is a new phenomenon. Our world economic league table shows how the economic map is changing, with Asian countries and commodity-producing economies climbing up the league while we in Europe fall back.\"Europe is expected to suffer a \"lost decade\" of low growth following a credit binge over the past 20 years. Paying back debts over a short timescale will restrict growth and prevent many countries, including the UK, from clawing back output lost in the banking crash for many years.The European Union, recently described by one Chinese official as \"a worn-out welfare society\", will remain the world's largest collective trading bloc, though a recession next year is expected to hit global growth. The latest forecasts by the CEBR show world growth falling to 2.5% in 2012, a downward revision from the forecast made in September.However, the CEBR warned a scenario involving \"one or more countries leaving the euro, sovereign defaults and banks going bust and needing to be bailed out\" would reduce global growth in 2012 to 1.1%. The European growth slowdown is forecast to be even more marked, with a fall in GDP by 0.6% and a possible fall of 2% if the euro currency club breaks up. The US forecast is better, with growth of 1.8%.Emerging economies, which have seen their stock markets dive in recent months as investors assess the fallout from the euro crisis, would regain their momentum, said the CEBR.China is forecast to grow by 7.6% and India by 6%. But other recent star economies with closer links to the EU or commodity prices are likely to face an economic slowdown with Turkish growth slowing to 2.5% from 7.1% this year, Saudi Arabia at 4% after 6.1% this year, Russia 2.8% after 3.8% this year, and Brazil 2.5% after 2.8% this year.", "tags": ["Economic growth (GDP)", "Economics", "Business", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil overtakes UK as sixth-largest economy"},{"date": "2011-12-18T19:28:58Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Early one October morning, Jo\u00e3o Geraldo de Almeida climbed out of bed and set off for the barbecue of his life.Escorted by a convoy of armed police, he climbed into the mountains outside Brazil's third largest city, strapped on a face mask and set fire to nearly six tons of illegal drugs. \"It was the biggest quantity of drugs we'd ever burned,\" boasted Almeida, head of the Federal Police drug squad in the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais.The annual incineration of police hauls of marijuana and cocaine is nothing new to South America, home to some of the biggest coca fields and marijuana plantations on Earth. But among Almeida's haul was a more unusual find: about 70,000 ecstasy pills and 16,000 tabs of LSD.The drugs pointed to a growing phenomenon: the use of so-called \"synthetic\" drugs such as ecstasy, MDMA powder and GHB in South America's largest nation.Brazil remains one of the largest cocaine consumers in the world and a major transit point for the drug. But a recent report by the UN's Office on Drugs and Crime suggested consumption of synthetic drugs, stable or falling in much of Europe, is on the rise in Brazil and other South American countries.The demand for such drugs has spawned a new generation of drug mules. In Brazil they call them \"narco-turistas\".\"They are passengers who leave the country, spend 10 days sightseeing in Europe and then come back with the drugs. They fake a holiday,\" said Almeida in Belo Horizonte, capital of Minas Gerais. \"If you look at their cameras they'll have a whole load of photographs of tourist spots, sometimes even from several different countries.\"Brazil's narco-turistas bear little resemblance to South America's traditional drug mules \u2013 desperate, cash-strapped locals, Africans or Europeans, who smuggle stomachs or suitcases of cocaine from airport to airport for a fraction of their cargo's worth.Instead, security officials say narco-turistas are well-off, university-educated Brazilians. \"They are much harder to locate because they blend in with your average passenger,\" said Almeida. \"They're not like your traditional drug mules whom you can spot in the airport queue. They are middle class and upwards. They are never poor.\"Foreign mules are regularly caught trying to ferry South American cocaine back to Europe \u2013 this year Romanian, Spanish and Polish citizens have been arrested at Belo Horizonte's Confins airport. But the narco-turistas are exclusively Brazilian. Normally they have no criminal record. They are often students, nearly always men, nearly always wealthy.\"In our investigations we have come across a lot of high-level people,\" said Almeida, his desk stacked with sky-blue investigation files. \"We've arrested lawyers, doctors, business people, the owner of one gym. These are people who go to Europe a lot. They are students, they might have studied in Europe, or been on tourism trips there, or business trips.\"Thanks to its booming economy \u2013 mineral-rich Minas Gerais is Brazil's third richest state \u2013 and improved flight connections to Europe, Belo Horizonte has become a key entry point for such traffickers. Of about 194,000 ecstasy pills seized by police in Brazil so far this year, 92,000 were seized in Minas Gerais, Almeida said. Nearly all were found at the city's Confins airport, from which there are direct flights to Lisbon. From Portugal, narco-turistas fly to other European countries to pick up the drugs, with Belgium and Holland two of the key pick-up points.\"100% of the drugs we are seeing here are coming from overseas. None of them are produced here [in Brazil]. None of our investigations have led us to believe that there might be an [ecstasy laboratory] here in Belo Horizonte,\" said Almeida.A report released in September by the EU's border management agency, Frontex, claimed the narco-turistas believed they were less likely to be caught at airports such as Confins.\"The target airports are not the ones in Rio de Janeiro and S\u00e3o Paulo, the main international hubs in the country. Rather, because of the belief that the larger airports are more closely and thoroughly watched, traffickers prefer to use secondary hubs such as the airports in Belo Horizonte, Salvador and Recife, where direct flights to Portugal, Spain, France and Germany are available.\"The growing role of the narco-turistas has underlined how Brazil's drug scene is no longer just about rolled-up banknotes and furtive trips to the bathroom.In 2001 Brazil's federal police reported seizing 1,909 ecstasy pills at the country's borders and airports. Ten years on, that figure has mutiplied by 100.After a July operation that dismantled an ecstasy trafficking ring which had been importing 30,000 pills each month from Holland, drug squad chief Jo\u00e3o Luiz Caetano de Ara\u00fajo said: \"Synthetic drugs are slowly replacing cocaine consumption.\"\"It is a cleaner drug, it is easier to sell and it is consumed more by the middle class,\" he told the Brazilian news magazine Veja.Next year the changing habits of Brazilian drug users will make their big screen debut, with the release of Artificial Paradises, a feature film focusing on \"Brazil's ecstasy generation\".", "tags": ["Brazil", "Drugs trade", "Europe", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil ecstasy haul points to new generation of drug mules"},{"date": "2011-10-31T14:56:38Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A leading anti-mafia campaigner and MP is preparing to flee Brazil after receiving a barrage of death threats from Rio de Janeiro's powerful and violent mafia.Marcelo Freixo, a veteran human rights activist known for his outreach work in Rio's prisons and favelas, announced on Monday that he was leaving Brazil with the support of Amnesty International. Aides did not say in which country Freixo and his family would seek refuge.Freixo's decision came after security authorities received credible reports of a plot to assassinate him. In August, Patricia Acioli, a prominent anti-mafia judge, was shot dead, hit by 21 police-issue bullets.A former member of Rio-based human rights group Justi\u00e7a Global, 44-year-old Freixo was elected to Rio's state parliament in 2006, the same year his brother was assassinated by gunmen.In 2008 he presided over a parliamentary inquiry into Rio's mafia: groups of off-duty police officers, prison guards and firemen known here as milicias. The inquiry was set up after two undercover journalists and their driver were kidnapped and tortured by milicia members while preparing an expos\u00e9 of their activities in one Rio slum.Freixo's outspoken stance against Rio's mafia has led to regular death threats. Since 2008 he has been forced to use a bulletproof car and 24-hour security detail.\"I didn't do this because I was born to be a hero,\" Freixo told the Guardian last year shortly before being re-elected for a second term. \"It is my obligation.\"In a 2008 interview, inside his chambers in central Rio, a visibly exhausted Freixo spoke of how the death threats had altered his life.\"Everything has changed. I have to go everywhere with bodyguards. I have a bulletproof car. I go out far less. I have to constantly change my routine. There are parts of Rio I can't go to anymore,\" he complained.\"It's really bad. You lose your freedom and it becomes tiring. You get tired. But there's nothing that can be done. Anyone who gets involved in this fight knows that these things are going to happen ... I have to do it.\"Freixo spoke at length about the brutal tactics employed by the milicias, now said to control at least 300 areas of Rio. One group's trademark was executing its enemies with a single rifle shot to the face, he said.\"They are capable of doing something. They have in the past. So I have to take care.\"Freixo, who hopes to run for mayor in 2012, vowed to return home.\"I am leaving the country but this is not a retreat. It does not mean I regret taking on the mafia. I will return and I will keep fighting,\" he told Rio newspaper O Globo on the eve of his departure.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news", "Mafia", "Organised crime"], "title": "Mafia assassination threat forces Brazil MP into exile"},{"date": "2011-10-27T17:17:24Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "From his 19th-floor newsroom Eur\u00edpedes Alc\u00e2ntara enjoys a spectacular view over the \"new Brazil\"; helicopters flit through the afternoon sky, shiny new cars honk their way across town, tower blocks and luxury shopping centres sprout like turnips from the urban sprawl.But Alc\u00e2ntara, one of the country's most powerful journalists, also stares out at the old Brazil; a place of political wheeler-dealing, kick-backs and endemic corruption that costs billions each year and continues to slow the rise of this South American giant.As executive editor of the influential and divisive news weekly Veja, Alc\u00e2ntara believes it is his calling to stop the sleaze. \"It is a civilisational clash. What kind of country do we want to be?\" he said.\"The majority of people play by the rules, they work from sunrise to sunset and pay their taxes as much as they can. Yet another portion lives dangling off the state apparatus, living off deals with people who have the keys to the safe. We see [uncovering corruption] as our mission.\"2011 will go down in Brazilian history as the year that Dilma Rousseff, its first female president, came to power. But it may also be remembered as the year in which public frustration over rampant political corruption finally boiled over.Since Rousseff came to office in January, five ministers have been toppled by ethics or corruption scandals, the latest being Orlando Silva, the sports minister, who resigned on Wednesday after Veja alleged he was involved in a \u00a314m corruption racket.Nationwide protests, while timid compared to those in Chile or the Middle East, have brought tens of thousands to the streets to demand an end to the looting of public money.With the word corruption on everyone's lips, the Brazilian media has played a lead role in unearthing the wrongdoings of some of the country's most powerful politicians. In June Rousseff's powerful chief-of-staff, Antonio Palocci, was forced to resign after the Folha de S\u00e3o Paulo newspaper revealed his personal fortune had grown 20-fold in a four-year period.Three months later the same newspaper helped dethrone the country's tourism minister, Pedro Novais, 81, who had previously been accused of using public money to bankroll a late-night party inside a sex-motel called The Caribbean. Novais's bill at the motel \u2013 where rooms fitted with swimming pools, saunas and circular beds are rented for \u00a335 for three hours \u2013 reportedly came to around \u00a3767.Veja's reporting, meanwhile, has brought down the agriculture minister Wagner Rossi, accused of misusing public money, the transport minister, Alfredo Nascimento, with an expose detailing an alleged bribery scheme within his ministry, and this week the sports minister.\"[The politicians] all say: 'When I get a call from Veja it's because my life is about to get worse,\" Alc\u00e2ntara chuckled. \"[But] it brings me no pleasure \u2026 I don't see it as a victory.\"\"It's not a campaign \u2026 but it is an obsession,\" added the 55-year-old editor, whose latest front page carried the headline Ten Reasons to Get Angry About Corruption. The inside story pointed out that with the R$85bn (\u00a330bn) of public money siphoned off each year, the government could eradicate poverty, build 1.5m homes \u2013 or purchase 18m designer handbags.Alc\u00e2ntara \u2013 whose magazine claims a weekly circulation of 1.2m and an estimated readership of between 6 and 10 million \u2013 admitted that most of Veja's corruption scoops originated from tipoffs from people often themselves implicated in the murky underbelly of Brazilian politics.\"We don't have a Delta Force. We have receptors,\" he said, pointing to the magazine's newsrooms in S\u00e3o Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and the political capital, Bras\u00edlia, where 78 reporters were instructed to keep their eyes and ears open for signs of dodgy dealings, whether covering science, transport or the arts.Untangling Veja's own politics from its anti-corruption crusade is complex.The magazine is widely loathed by Brazil's left, who claim it is inherently biased against the ruling Workers' party and its allies, and pays undue attention to the peccadilloes of politicians from these parties, while brushing over those of its friends.Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, Brazil's first working-class president, enjoyed a particularly turbulent relationship with the magazine during his eight years in office. \"Let's be frank, some of Veja's journalists deserve the Nobel prize for irresponsibility,\" Lula said in 2006, following a story claiming that he and his allies held secret overseas bank accounts. \"Veja does not publish accusations. Veja publishes lies.\"Alc\u00e2ntara has kinder words for Rousseff, Lula's successor, who has embarked upon what has been dubbed a \"house cleaning\", ejecting a total of six ministers during her 10 months in power.\"It seems to me that she is much more intolerant with corruption than [Lula],\" he said. \"Dilma, in both word and action, has shown much greater intolerance and a greater understanding of the disgrace that corruption is in this country. There now exists a strong awareness, and I think much of it is down to the president, that this kind of extortion is unacceptable.\"Rousseff's stance against sleaze and the near constant media coverage has bolstered a wave of protests across Brazil.\"How is it that such a rich, large country has such high levels of poverty? One of the explanations without doubt is endemic, historic corruption,\" said Ant\u00f4nio Carlos Costa, head of the anti-violence NGO Rio de Paz during one recent event, which drew around 2,500 protesters.\"We are talking about something that links all the spheres of power. That goes from the narco-traffickers to the members of congress. It pollutes everything; it undermines all our relationships. The only way to combat this is with dedication and perseverance.\"Natalia Lebeis, 23, had also turned out for the protest \u2013 dressed as a clown.\"People say Brazilians only take to the streets to watch football or for carnival,\" she said. \"We are the voice of our nation. I think it's time for people to show their faces and speak out against corruption and impunity.\"Alc\u00e2ntara, a one-time New York correspondent whose latest story was a three-page interview with Neil Young, looked to Paul McCartney to capture his feelings on Brazil's chances of winning its war on graft.\"It is a tug-of-war,\" he said, referring to the ex-Beatle's 1982 track. \"A tug-of-war between those who want to take us back into the 19th century and those trying to pull us into the 21st century. I'm an optimist \u2013 I think the 21st century will win.\"", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "Dilma Rousseff", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva", "World news", "Media"], "title": "Brazil is the latest country to get angry about corruption"},{"date": "2011-10-28T10:38:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It is a good time to be a Brazilian on the international stage. Brazil has the eighth largest economy in the world, and the \"traditional donors\" want to know what the country is thinking. In fact, with an aid programme of under $1bn (according to official estimates), it commands far more interest than it probably should. Why? Because Brazil is the future. When leaders in poor countries sit down to plan their way out of poverty, they don't look to emulate Britain. They say: \"We want to be an emerging economy, like Brazil.\"The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD) Economic Survey of Brazil, which was published on Wednesday, confirms this advance in terms of economic growth and poverty reduction (although the much-lauded reduction in inequality can be overstated, coming as it does in one of the world's most unequal countries).In the space of a decade, Brazil has transformed its international presence. Its international development strategy is part of that. According to This is Africa, trade between Brazil and Africa has grown from $5bn in 2003 to more than $20bn in 2010 (over a third of which is with one country, Nigeria). President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, whose vision defined this bold declaration of international relevance, established 17 new embassies in Africa and visited 23 countries on the continent.Marco Farani, the director of the Brazilian aid agency, is well aware of the political and economic benefits of Brazil's new positioning as a player in the international development field, but insists the body's motives are pure. \"I have never been told to work in a country for strategic reasons,\" he said in a debate in Parliament on Monday, organised by the Overseas Development Institute (ODI) and the All Party Group on Overseas Development (Apgood).Farani is the leader of a growing team \u2013 under his tenure, staff numbers have risen from 70 to 160 \u2013 but, far from worrying about Brazil's status as new kids on the block, his attitude to strategy is relaxed. \"We don't have a strategy\", he states proudly. Farani's preference is to respond to requests for support rather than engaging in comprehensive strategic planning. \"There will come a time when we will be richer and more rigid and perhaps then less creative, more boring,\" he says.On monitoring and evaluation, he favours intuition over rigorous analysis for now. \"Everywhere I go on my country visits, people tell me how much they like what we are doing,\" he says. With other countries, one might assume such expressions of goodwill stemmed from a desire to maintain good relations; in the case of Brazil, it's just possible they're sincere.Eventually, Brazil will need to become more strategic and engage in the more rigorous elements of impact assessment that denote a professional outfit accountable to citizens (downwards) and the international community (upwards). The OECD is helping the country to record its data better, but Brazil is determined to do things its own way.The main difference between Brazil (and other emerging powers) and traditional donors is that they still have to fight extreme poverty at home. Brazil has tens of millions of very poor people. The UK's Department for International Development (DfID) has led the way in recent years in insisting all aid must pass the simple test of primarily benefitting the poorest. Perhaps Brazil should embed this poverty focus as well, but with a twist, based on the idea of mutual benefit. Not only should the poorest in the partner country benefit from international co-operation, but also the domestic poor. Solidarity and accountability should exist not only between governments, but between peoples.The Brazilian NGO community already understands the potential of this new internationalist vision. Building on years of leadership, symbolised by the groundbreaking World Social Forums that started in Porto Alegre in 2001, some in Brazilian civil society want to become world players, competing with the big northern NGOs in shaping the international debate, not just the domestic one.Brazil continues to receive about 0.025% of its annual income in aid, as it has for the past two decades. This is roughly the same amount as its own aid programme. According to traditional, post-colonial aid dynamics, there is little sense in both giving and receiving aid. But this conception is being recast. It makes perfect sense in the new era to give and receive aid \u2013 it is part of mutuality. As if to underscore the point, Farani gave as his examples agricultural co-operation support to Japan (the third richest country in the world) and Ghana.Again, civil society organisations are keen to ensure that foreign money continues to help fund their activities. Issues of inequality, environmental degradation and land rights remain complex issues in Brazil, and the international community must continue to play a crucial part in supporting just outcomes for the poorest in Brazil.I believe Brazil should learn from DfID and the other successful aid agencies, but not emulate them, influencing the debate at international development fora but without getting sidetracked into the technocratic results mantra. In short, Brazil must blaze a new trail in international co-operation. Not that Farani needs much encouragement to do that. We will know in a few years how successful he has been.", "tags": ["Global development", "Aid", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil can blaze a new trail in international co-operation"},{"date": "2011-12-30T09:26:02Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "With the UK market only open for half a day ahead of the new year celebrations, it was never going to be particularly busy, and so it is proving.The FTSE 100 has edged down 2.05 points to 5564.75, but to say volumes are light must be a late bid for understatement of the year.Still, gases group BG is in demand, up 23.5p at \u00a313.94 after more positive news from its operations off the coast of Brazil. Its partner Petrobras has submitted a declaration showing the Guara field in the Santos basin project - where BG holds 30% - was commercially viable. The Petrobas report effectively marks the start of the production phase, and was filed twelve months before the deadline. It showed excellent reservoirs with good quality oil, according to BG.Elsewhere, as gold regained some ground after recent losses, Russian precious metals miner Polymetal International has risen 22p to \u00a311.14.Despite Nationwide building society reporting a dip in December house prices, Barratt Developments added 1.85p to 90.5p on the theory things could have been worse.But Millennium and Copthorne Hotels fell 3.2p to 404.8p as Panmure Gordon began coverage of the hotels group with a sell recommendation and 343p target price. Analyst Simon French said:", "tags": ["Business", "BG", "Barratt Developments", "Millennium and Copthorne Hotels"], "title": "BG gains on positive Brazil news but FTSE ending 2011 with a whimper"},{"date": "2011-12-27T21:35:16Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It was an unconventional start to a rock concert: an explosion of fluorescent lights, a deafening drum roll and, finally, an extract from Psalm 91. \"A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand; but it shall not come nigh thee.\"Biblical citations over, a singer wearing giant blue earrings and a garish purple tunic swept out on to centre stage, sending thousands of fans pogoing into the air.But it was a mosh pit with a difference \u2013 for this was the Festival Promessas, a beachside showcase of some of Brazil's best-known gospel bands and, more importantly, the first evangelical show to be broadcast by the Brazilian media giant Rede Globo.Backstage, Regis Danese, one of the country's top gospel artists, grinned cheek to cheek. \"Today is a historic day for Brazilian gospel music,\" he said. \"The people of God should praise and thank God for all this.\"Brazil is known as the land of samba, bossa nova and funk. But increasingly, the artists topping the charts wield not just guitars and tambourines but also copies of the Bible. Danese's 2008 album Compromisso, which featured tracks such as Your Altar and I Want to Thank You, sold more than one million copies and was nominated for a Grammy.Female singers such as Aline Barros and Fernanda Brum regularly lock horns with global stars such as Britney Spears and Justin Bieber in the Brazilian charts \u2013 and often come out on top.Hoping for a slice of the gospel market, reportedly worth around R$1.5bn (\u00a3500m) last year, several major labels, including Sony, have opened gospel imprints.\"We are moving into the secular world and this is priceless for us,\" said Marina de Oliveira, a Grammy-winning gospel singer who believes the genre's advance into the mainstream will help her not only sell records but also spread the Bible's message. \"This is marvellous, fantastic. Our ability to transmit the word of God will grow absurdly.\"Oliveira used a Brazilian saying to capture her feelings about the latest conquests of a movement she has been pushing for the last 25 years: \"Constant dripping wears away the hardest stone.\"Gospel music is still far from universally admired. While most department stores stock evangelical records, detractors abound. Music writers from Brazil's main newspapers largely shun records by the country's gospel singers.\"It's prejudice,\" said Arolde de Oliveira, a Brazilian MP and the president of MK Music, which he describes as the largest gospel label in Latin America. \"There has always been prejudice, because we have been a Catholic country ever since the very first mass that was celebrated when they discovered Brazil [over] 500 years ago.\"Even so, the Festival Promessas, which received prominent coverage on Globo's news programmes, represented a breakthrough. Held near Rio's Flamengo beach, it became a one-hour Christmas special despite Rede Globo being traditionally viewed by Brazilians as a Catholic channel.Oliveira said attitudes towards gospel music were changing as the evangelical movement grew. \"These are people who don't just consume evangelical products. They use toilet paper, toothpaste, washing machines, cars \u2013 perhaps not Rolls-Royces, but I like a little Mercedes, a BMW maybe. They consume everything.\"Initially [Brazil's] evangelical population was confined to the bottom of the social pyramid,\" he added during an interview at his company's HQ in Rio, where visitors are welcomed by a silver metal sign above the entrance which reads: \"Nothing is impossible for he who believes.\"\"But with time they have risen \u2026 and today this segment of 60 million people directly or indirectly linked to the church \u2026 represents a [significant] portion of the social pyramid. It is a big market.\"Much of the explanation for the success of Brazil's gospel music lies in its target audience: an ever-growing flock of Christians seeking spiritual enlightenment as well as catchy tunes. The gospel market is also largely immune from piracy. For spiritual and moral reasons, evangelical Christians largely refused to buy fake CDs and DVDs or illegally download music, Marina de Oliveira explained. \"This helps us a lot.\"Asked why non-religious record labels were now releasing gospel records, Oliveira, who recorded her first evangelical LP in 1986, was blunt. \"They know that the record business in the secular community will die long before ours so they are trying to suck the last little bit of juice from the cup.\"For the artists on show at Festival Promessas, the event was not just about selling records. It was also a chance to proselytise. \"It's very important,\" Danese, whose track Faz um Milagre em Mim (roughly Show me a Miracle) has become a nationwide anthem for the gospel movement, told the Guardian. \"Secular radios are playing our music. Important [secular] Brazilian newspapers and magazines, all of them, [are writing about our music]. And now Rede Globo has embraced this project. The [channel's] directors are doing their best, and we must all do our best for Jesus.\" Paraphrasing from the Book of Isaiah he added: \"The word of God does not return empty.\"Despite the festival's unmistakably religious tone, Rede Globo denied it was promoting religious ideas or attempting to win over new evangelical viewers. \"Globo is not putting on an evangelical event, it is documenting a festival of gospel music,\" said Luiz Gleizer, director of Globo TV. \"Globo cannot ignore something that has taken on the proportions of gospel music in Brazil,\" he added, pointing out that the channel had \"perceived the progressive importance of gospel music in Brazil's cultural life.\"The channel reached out to \"all social classes and all demographics\", he said, claiming that the event reaffirmed Globo's secularity. \"Globo is not a Catholic channel \u2013 it is a secular, lay and republican channel.\"Such distinctions were lost on the nine artists who performed at the Saturday afternoon event, which drew tens of thousands of fans, many with pink \"100% Jesus\" bandanas strapped to their heads or wearing \"I've had a meeting with Jesus\" T-shirts.\"A believer who just stays at church preaching to other believers is no good,\" said Danese, clad in a bright red PVC jacket and white jeans. \"Jesus preached to sinners, he spoke to prostitutes \u2026 We need to stop talking nonsense and preach the word of God, talk about Jesus. We need to preach the word to our neighbours, at work \u2026 you have to make the difference.\"Emerging from his dressing room, Danese \u2013 a country singer before his conversion \u2013 was surrounded by a posse of journalists and photographers, mostly from Christian radio stations and magazines. They bombarded him with questions about his faith.\"Did you hear the voice of God?\" \"What did he say?\" \"How have you been able to touch Catholics and members of other religions with your music?\"At each answer, one reporter, from a magazine called New Jerusalem, responded with an enthusiastic nod and the refrain: \"Amen. Glory be to God.\"As the eight-hour concert rolled on, teary-eyed believers packed before the stage, staring into the cloudy skies and giving thanks to their lord. \"Thank you my father. Thank you my lord.\"Above the crowd a white banner, carrying a phrase from Corinthians, chapter 14, verse 15, fluttered in the wind. \"What am I to do? I will pray with my spirit, but I will pray with my mind also. I will sing praise with my spirit, but I will sing with my mind also,\" it read.", "tags": ["Evangelical Christianity", "Brazil", "Christianity", "Religion", "Americas", "World news", "World music", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Gospel starts to strike a chord in Brazil, the home of bossa nova"},{"date": "2012-01-19T17:29:37Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Prince Harry will visit Brazil in March as part of \"Britain's most ambitious effort to strengthen ties with Latin America in 200 years\", the foreign secretary has announced, playing down differences between the UK and the continent over the future of the Falkland Islands.William Hague \u2013 in Brazil as part of a two-day diplomatic offensive designed to \"re-energise\" wilting links between the UK and Latin America's booming emerging economies \u2013 said the 27-year-old prince would attend an event on Rio de Janeiro's iconic Sugar Loaf mountain. No further details were given.\"The British retreat from Latin America is over,\" Hague told the Guardian in an interview at Rio's Itamaraty palace.\"The policy of closing embassies, withdrawing diplomatic missions, I have brought to an end and we are reversing it,\" he said, pointing out that an embassy had been opened in El Salvador and a consulate added in the Brazilian city of Recife.Despite Hague's upbeat message, a number of significant diplomatic disagreements remain between London and Brasilia, not least over the Falklands Islands, where Prince William is being posted for six weeks from next month in his role as an RAF search and rescue pilot.On the eve of Hague's trip to Brazil, Argentina's foreign minister, Hector Timerman, described Britain as \"a synonym for colonialism\", after David Cameron had said Argentina's recent rhetoric was \"more like colonialism\".However, in an interview last October, Hague laid out coalition plans to \"build whole new alliances with the emerging powers\".\"We have ministers going to places where no ministers have been for decades or even ever.\"Speaking on Thursday, Hague said his visit marked the start of a \"strategic dialogue between the UK and Brazil\" and \"more active engagement with Latin America\".\"There is vast scope for greater co-operation \u2026 particularly on immense global issues like climate change and international development.\"We are not short of things to sell to Brazil,\" he added, outlining opportunities for British companies ranging from oil and gas, to infrastructure, management and development, pharmaceuticals and aerospace.In a keynote speech, set to be delivered on Thursday afternoon, Hague said the global balance of power had entered a new phase.\"International relations are no longer dominated by a handful of powerful nation states that can dictate terms for the rest,\" he said, according to an advance copy. \"That era is over.\"Improved relations with Brazil were part of \"new chapter in this history\", he said.\"In the late 20th century Britain looked away; four of our Latin American embassies were shut, diplomats were withdrawn and our links faltered just as your continent began its extraordinary rise,\" he said.Brazilian commentators reacted cautiously to talk of a new era of transatlantic relations, pointing to the relatively low level of trade between Brazil and the UK.\"I think we are starting from a lower base than I would like,\" Hague admitted. \"I think that British relations with Latin America, including Brazil, have been neglected over the last decade and possibly more. I don't mince words about that. But we are energetically setting about putting that right. It is true that economically our relations [represent] quite a small percentage of our trade.\"[But] British companies are already the 4th largest investor in Brazil \u2026 and the export figures are improving dramatically.\"Last month tension over the disputed Falklands erupted after the Mercosur trade bloc, which includes Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay and Brazil, agreed to block from their ports ships that flew the \"illegal\" Falklands flag.Hague played down an escalating row in the lead-up to April's 30th anniversary of the Argentinian invasion.\"Yes, there is a difference of view between Britain and South American nations about the sovereignty of the Falkland Islands but I don't think there is a desire across South America in general to impose any economic blockade,\" he told the Guardian.\"Argentina has in some ways tried to increase tension over this issue but that will never be productive, that will just leave the region more tense. It doesn't in any way change British policy nor will it ever lead to a change in policy. Our policy is based on the self-determination of the people of the Falklands \u2026 and that will remain the case.\"Hague said he had briefed Brazil's foreign ministry on attempts to impose sanctions on Iran over its nuclear programme when EU foreign ministers meet in Brussels. Brazil opposes sanctions, arguing they are ineffective and mostly harm the civilian population.\"There is not always agreement on the way forwards with Brazil but we've had some good discussions,\" Hague said.Asked about Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's recent tour of Latin America \u2013 which excluded Brazil \u2013 Hague said: \"I don't think we can draw too many conclusions from one itinerary, one visit by the president of Iran to South America.\"", "tags": ["Prince Harry", "Brazil", "Foreign policy", "Americas", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "World news", "Politics", "William Hague"], "title": "Prince Harry to visit Brazil"},{"date": "2012-01-19T17:29:37Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Prince Harry will visit Brazil in March as part of \"Britain's most ambitious effort to strengthen ties with Latin America in 200 years\", the foreign secretary has announced, playing down differences between the UK and the continent over the future of the Falkland Islands.William Hague \u2013 in Brazil as part of a two-day diplomatic offensive designed to \"re-energise\" wilting links between the UK and Latin America's booming emerging economies \u2013 said the 27-year-old prince would attend an event on Rio de Janeiro's iconic Sugar Loaf mountain. No further details were given.\"The British retreat from Latin America is over,\" Hague told the Guardian in an interview at Rio's Itamaraty palace.\"The policy of closing embassies, withdrawing diplomatic missions, I have brought to an end and we are reversing it,\" he said, pointing out that an embassy had been opened in El Salvador and a consulate added in the Brazilian city of Recife.Despite Hague's upbeat message, a number of significant diplomatic disagreements remain between London and Brasilia, not least over the Falklands Islands, where Prince William is being posted for six weeks from next month in his role as an RAF search and rescue pilot.On the eve of Hague's trip to Brazil, Argentina's foreign minister, Hector Timerman, described Britain as \"a synonym for colonialism\", after David Cameron had said Argentina's recent rhetoric was \"more like colonialism\".However, in an interview last October, Hague laid out coalition plans to \"build whole new alliances with the emerging powers\".\"We have ministers going to places where no ministers have been for decades or even ever.\"Speaking on Thursday, Hague said his visit marked the start of a \"strategic dialogue between the UK and Brazil\" and \"more active engagement with Latin America\".\"There is vast scope for greater co-operation \u2026 particularly on immense global issues like climate change and international development.\"We are not short of things to sell to Brazil,\" he added, outlining opportunities for British companies ranging from oil and gas, to infrastructure, management and development, pharmaceuticals and aerospace.In a keynote speech, set to be delivered on Thursday afternoon, Hague said the global balance of power had entered a new phase.\"International relations are no longer dominated by a handful of powerful nation states that can dictate terms for the rest,\" he said, according to an advance copy. \"That era is over.\"Improved relations with Brazil were part of \"new chapter in this history\", he said.\"In the late 20th century Britain looked away; four of our Latin American embassies were shut, diplomats were withdrawn and our links faltered just as your continent began its extraordinary rise,\" he said.Brazilian commentators reacted cautiously to talk of a new era of transatlantic relations, pointing to the relatively low level of trade between Brazil and the UK.\"I think we are starting from a lower base than I would like,\" Hague admitted. \"I think that British relations with Latin America, including Brazil, have been neglected over the last decade and possibly more. I don't mince words about that. But we are energetically setting about putting that right. It is true that economically our relations [represent] quite a small percentage of our trade.\"[But] British companies are already the 4th largest investor in Brazil \u2026 and the export figures are improving dramatically.\"Last month tension over the disputed Falklands erupted after the Mercosur trade bloc, which includes Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay and Brazil, agreed to block from their ports ships that flew the \"illegal\" Falklands flag.Hague played down an escalating row in the lead-up to April's 30th anniversary of the Argentinian invasion.\"Yes, there is a difference of view between Britain and South American nations about the sovereignty of the Falkland Islands but I don't think there is a desire across South America in general to impose any economic blockade,\" he told the Guardian.\"Argentina has in some ways tried to increase tension over this issue but that will never be productive, that will just leave the region more tense. It doesn't in any way change British policy nor will it ever lead to a change in policy. Our policy is based on the self-determination of the people of the Falklands \u2026 and that will remain the case.\"Hague said he had briefed Brazil's foreign ministry on attempts to impose sanctions on Iran over its nuclear programme when EU foreign ministers meet in Brussels. Brazil opposes sanctions, arguing they are ineffective and mostly harm the civilian population.\"There is not always agreement on the way forwards with Brazil but we've had some good discussions,\" Hague said.Asked about Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's recent tour of Latin America \u2013 which excluded Brazil \u2013 Hague said: \"I don't think we can draw too many conclusions from one itinerary, one visit by the president of Iran to South America.\"", "tags": ["Prince Harry", "Brazil", "Foreign policy", "Americas", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "World news", "Politics", "William Hague"], "title": "Prince Harry to visit Brazil"},{"date": "2012-03-07T17:12:27Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Property investors in Brazil had a fiesta last year as house prices jumped by 26.3%, while buyers in Ireland watched prices slump by a further 16.7%.Brazil was the standout success in the Knight Frank global house price index with more than double the increase experienced by the second-fastest growing country, Estonia (up 12.3%). The other top five risers were Hong Kong (up 11.3%), India (up 11.1%) and Slovenia (up 10.1%).Knight Frank said Brazil's \"remarkable performance is being fuelled by strong population growth, rising household wealth and an expanding mortgage market.\"Overall global property prices were up 0.5% in 2011. The bottom 12 performing countries were all in Europe, with Ireland leading the way down 16.7%, followed by Cyprus, Russia, Ukraine, Spain and Jersey. The UK came mid table with a 1.1% rise.", "tags": ["Real estate", "Global economy", "Business", "Property", "Money"], "title": "Brazil property investors celebrate bumper year"},{"date": "2012-01-19T17:29:37Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Prince Harry will visit Brazil in March as part of \"Britain's most ambitious effort to strengthen ties with Latin America in 200 years\", the foreign secretary has announced, playing down differences between the UK and the continent over the future of the Falkland Islands.William Hague \u2013 in Brazil as part of a two-day diplomatic offensive designed to \"re-energise\" wilting links between the UK and Latin America's booming emerging economies \u2013 said the 27-year-old prince would attend an event on Rio de Janeiro's iconic Sugar Loaf mountain. No further details were given.\"The British retreat from Latin America is over,\" Hague told the Guardian in an interview at Rio's Itamaraty palace.\"The policy of closing embassies, withdrawing diplomatic missions, I have brought to an end and we are reversing it,\" he said, pointing out that an embassy had been opened in El Salvador and a consulate added in the Brazilian city of Recife.Despite Hague's upbeat message, a number of significant diplomatic disagreements remain between London and Brasilia, not least over the Falklands Islands, where Prince William is being posted for six weeks from next month in his role as an RAF search and rescue pilot.On the eve of Hague's trip to Brazil, Argentina's foreign minister, Hector Timerman, described Britain as \"a synonym for colonialism\", after David Cameron had said Argentina's recent rhetoric was \"more like colonialism\".However, in an interview last October, Hague laid out coalition plans to \"build whole new alliances with the emerging powers\".\"We have ministers going to places where no ministers have been for decades or even ever.\"Speaking on Thursday, Hague said his visit marked the start of a \"strategic dialogue between the UK and Brazil\" and \"more active engagement with Latin America\".\"There is vast scope for greater co-operation \u2026 particularly on immense global issues like climate change and international development.\"We are not short of things to sell to Brazil,\" he added, outlining opportunities for British companies ranging from oil and gas, to infrastructure, management and development, pharmaceuticals and aerospace.In a keynote speech, set to be delivered on Thursday afternoon, Hague said the global balance of power had entered a new phase.\"International relations are no longer dominated by a handful of powerful nation states that can dictate terms for the rest,\" he said, according to an advance copy. \"That era is over.\"Improved relations with Brazil were part of \"new chapter in this history\", he said.\"In the late 20th century Britain looked away; four of our Latin American embassies were shut, diplomats were withdrawn and our links faltered just as your continent began its extraordinary rise,\" he said.Brazilian commentators reacted cautiously to talk of a new era of transatlantic relations, pointing to the relatively low level of trade between Brazil and the UK.\"I think we are starting from a lower base than I would like,\" Hague admitted. \"I think that British relations with Latin America, including Brazil, have been neglected over the last decade and possibly more. I don't mince words about that. But we are energetically setting about putting that right. It is true that economically our relations [represent] quite a small percentage of our trade.\"[But] British companies are already the 4th largest investor in Brazil \u2026 and the export figures are improving dramatically.\"Last month tension over the disputed Falklands erupted after the Mercosur trade bloc, which includes Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay and Brazil, agreed to block from their ports ships that flew the \"illegal\" Falklands flag.Hague played down an escalating row in the lead-up to April's 30th anniversary of the Argentinian invasion.\"Yes, there is a difference of view between Britain and South American nations about the sovereignty of the Falkland Islands but I don't think there is a desire across South America in general to impose any economic blockade,\" he told the Guardian.\"Argentina has in some ways tried to increase tension over this issue but that will never be productive, that will just leave the region more tense. It doesn't in any way change British policy nor will it ever lead to a change in policy. Our policy is based on the self-determination of the people of the Falklands \u2026 and that will remain the case.\"Hague said he had briefed Brazil's foreign ministry on attempts to impose sanctions on Iran over its nuclear programme when EU foreign ministers meet in Brussels. Brazil opposes sanctions, arguing they are ineffective and mostly harm the civilian population.\"There is not always agreement on the way forwards with Brazil but we've had some good discussions,\" Hague said.Asked about Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's recent tour of Latin America \u2013 which excluded Brazil \u2013 Hague said: \"I don't think we can draw too many conclusions from one itinerary, one visit by the president of Iran to South America.\"", "tags": ["Prince Harry", "Brazil", "Foreign policy", "Americas", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "World news", "Politics", "William Hague"], "title": "Prince Harry to visit Brazil"},{"date": "2012-03-07T17:12:27Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Property investors in Brazil had a fiesta last year as house prices jumped by 26.3%, while buyers in Ireland watched prices slump by a further 16.7%.Brazil was the standout success in the Knight Frank global house price index with more than double the increase experienced by the second-fastest growing country, Estonia (up 12.3%). The other top five risers were Hong Kong (up 11.3%), India (up 11.1%) and Slovenia (up 10.1%).Knight Frank said Brazil's \"remarkable performance is being fuelled by strong population growth, rising household wealth and an expanding mortgage market.\"Overall global property prices were up 0.5% in 2011. The bottom 12 performing countries were all in Europe, with Ireland leading the way down 16.7%, followed by Cyprus, Russia, Ukraine, Spain and Jersey. The UK came mid table with a 1.1% rise.", "tags": ["Real estate", "Global economy", "Business", "Property", "Money"], "title": "Brazil property investors celebrate bumper year"},{"date": "2012-02-29T11:06:06Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "There aren't any cabs in Caraiva. And there aren't any roads. In fact, reports of electricity coming to the town seven years ago may have been exaggerated. My first night in a beachfront villa at Casa da Praia \u2013 one of only a handful of pousadas in the town \u2013 was spent candlelit after the power went down. And when it rains, it washes away most contact with the outside world. But herein lies the appeal of one of Bahia's most remote, and most beautiful, coastal stretches.\"You must go further south to Caraiva,\" recommended a Brazilian friend when I told her of my plans to visit the chichi Bahian resort of Trancoso. \"It's paradise.\" So I did. After a day's long haul to Rio via Paris followed by three hours of short hop flights via Belo Horizonte, one aborted landing at Porto Seguro due to a flooded runway and then one successful one, a bumpy-as-hell two-hour 65km 4x4 drive, a canoe and then a donkey pulling a cart with the word \"taxi\" painted on it, I arrived. It had taken a full 24 hours, but I'd made it.Caraiva is, by all accounts, what Trancoso was 20 years ago, before the road was built south of the airport and Diane von Furstenberg and Terry Richardson started holidaying there. There are just a handful of pousadas, and when you walk along the beach, with its sand the colour of crystallised caramel and its feisty but warm Atlantic surf, there's little sign of civilisation at all. Most journeys are undertaken by fishing boat, and all of the homes are built on a stretch of sand cut off from the rest of Bahia by the mouth of the river. There's a small square with a tiny white church, and a pizzeria with a terrace at the riverside where the canoes are moored, and not much else. During the day, butterflies dance around you as you make your way through the lanes, and at night, fireflies take their place and flash like a hundred tiny stars.A rare slow and precious pace of life thrives in Caraiva. The native Patax\u00f3 H\u00e3h\u00e3h\u00e3e \u2013 one of seven tribes in Bahia \u2013 still live here untroubled, a 6km horse ride away in the Caramuru-Paragua\u00e7u reserve, with sloths dozing in huge numbers in the forests around them. There are over 54,000 Indians who live in the reserve, created by the then Indian Protection Service in 1926. On the way to Caraiva you'll pass a handful of tiny stalls at the roadside with the locals selling simple tube-shaped lampshades and other Pataxo handicrafts. The tribe welcomes visitors to see how they live and to try their hand at archery, making feather headdresses and to dine Pataxo-style, on freshly caught fish baked in leaves. Visits are easily arranged via your pousada or tour operator \u2013 this part of the world isn't entirely without commercial smarts.There's a touch of the throwback tie-dye to this town. If Trancoso was Bahia's 1970s drop-out idyll, then this is where the hippy B&B owners who didn't want to invest in wine lists and sushi chefs came when the fashion crowd invaded. It attracts the more intrepid travellers and people from the bigger cities who have decided to sell up and live the good life. Which isn't to say that the place is awash with gap year kids waxing lyrical about American Spirit organic tobacco: there are as many retired couples on long weekends from S\u00e3o Paulo here as there are students with summer jobs. There's a level of sophistication that belies the remoteness. The pousadas in Caraiva are all simply furnished and functional, although you might want to bring your own mosquito net. Most consist of detached chalets, dotted around a well-kept garden. Expect the basics and you won't be disappointed \u2013 there's air conditioning and hot water and the bed linen is inoffensive, but there are no designer, boutique flourishes and if you want mood lighting, then reach for a candle. You'll certainly eat very well though. Lunching every day at Casa da Praia, I became hooked on the vegetarian version of the feijoada \u2013 a black bean stew \u2013 and sizzling plates of fresh fish and king prawns. And of course the cacha\u00e7a-heavy caipirinha, which the Brazilians ignore in favour of caipiroska, a vodka-based alternative, which, to my sun-starved European tastebuds was a lime blast of feel-good fun in a glass.A trip to nearby Espelho beach is a must, to visit Silvinha, who has been living in the same candy-coloured house for 16 years. She has three tables on her porch, that can be reserved via your pousada (everyone on the coast knows her and has her number, but here it is anyway: +55 73 9985 4157) and most afternoons she cooks a set \u00a324-a-head lunch. It varies from day to day, with no menu as such, but there's always fish (on my visit, with soy, ginger and orange) and an array of colourful bowls filled with tropical veggies and sauces, dished up from bubbling saucepans and steaming pots in the kitchen of her house. As someone said to me before I went: \"you can taste the love\". Approaching her house from what must be one of the most beautiful beaches in South America, you can understand why Silvinha has never wanted to leave, and why it's become a word-of-mouth place of pilgrimage for locals and travellers.Although a bus thunders along the dirt track a couple of times a day, stopping just short of the river, Caraiva remains profoundly cut off from the outside world, and no one is likely to want to lay down asphalt or build bridges any day soon. Each November the guesthouses repair the winter's damage and unfurl the hammocks for what counts as a busy summer (December-February) in this part of the world. You might have to carry your own case back to the canoe if the donkeys are still asleep, but it's a small price to pay for such unspoilt beauty and perfect solitude.Journey Latin America (020-8747 8315, journeylatinamerica.co.uk) offers six nights in Caraiva and three nights in Rio de Janeiro from \u00a32,363, including all flights, hotels, transfers and breakfasts.Air France (who recently began partnering with GOL, which offers regular internal flights to Porto Seguro for Caraiva) flies from London to Rio de Janeiro via Paris from \u00a3542 return (0845 050 5871, airfrance.co.uk).Pousada Casa da Praia (+55 73 3274 6833, casasdapraiacaraiva.com.br) has rooms from \u00a335per night. For more information visit caraiva.com.br.", "tags": ["Beach holidays", "Travel", "Brazil holidays", "South America holidays", "Romantic trips", "Bahia holidays"], "title": "A beach to yourself in Brazil"},{"date": "2012-01-19T17:29:37Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Prince Harry will visit Brazil in March as part of \"Britain's most ambitious effort to strengthen ties with Latin America in 200 years\", the foreign secretary has announced, playing down differences between the UK and the continent over the future of the Falkland Islands.William Hague \u2013 in Brazil as part of a two-day diplomatic offensive designed to \"re-energise\" wilting links between the UK and Latin America's booming emerging economies \u2013 said the 27-year-old prince would attend an event on Rio de Janeiro's iconic Sugar Loaf mountain. No further details were given.\"The British retreat from Latin America is over,\" Hague told the Guardian in an interview at Rio's Itamaraty palace.\"The policy of closing embassies, withdrawing diplomatic missions, I have brought to an end and we are reversing it,\" he said, pointing out that an embassy had been opened in El Salvador and a consulate added in the Brazilian city of Recife.Despite Hague's upbeat message, a number of significant diplomatic disagreements remain between London and Brasilia, not least over the Falklands Islands, where Prince William is being posted for six weeks from next month in his role as an RAF search and rescue pilot.On the eve of Hague's trip to Brazil, Argentina's foreign minister, Hector Timerman, described Britain as \"a synonym for colonialism\", after David Cameron had said Argentina's recent rhetoric was \"more like colonialism\".However, in an interview last October, Hague laid out coalition plans to \"build whole new alliances with the emerging powers\".\"We have ministers going to places where no ministers have been for decades or even ever.\"Speaking on Thursday, Hague said his visit marked the start of a \"strategic dialogue between the UK and Brazil\" and \"more active engagement with Latin America\".\"There is vast scope for greater co-operation \u2026 particularly on immense global issues like climate change and international development.\"We are not short of things to sell to Brazil,\" he added, outlining opportunities for British companies ranging from oil and gas, to infrastructure, management and development, pharmaceuticals and aerospace.In a keynote speech, set to be delivered on Thursday afternoon, Hague said the global balance of power had entered a new phase.\"International relations are no longer dominated by a handful of powerful nation states that can dictate terms for the rest,\" he said, according to an advance copy. \"That era is over.\"Improved relations with Brazil were part of \"new chapter in this history\", he said.\"In the late 20th century Britain looked away; four of our Latin American embassies were shut, diplomats were withdrawn and our links faltered just as your continent began its extraordinary rise,\" he said.Brazilian commentators reacted cautiously to talk of a new era of transatlantic relations, pointing to the relatively low level of trade between Brazil and the UK.\"I think we are starting from a lower base than I would like,\" Hague admitted. \"I think that British relations with Latin America, including Brazil, have been neglected over the last decade and possibly more. I don't mince words about that. But we are energetically setting about putting that right. It is true that economically our relations [represent] quite a small percentage of our trade.\"[But] British companies are already the 4th largest investor in Brazil \u2026 and the export figures are improving dramatically.\"Last month tension over the disputed Falklands erupted after the Mercosur trade bloc, which includes Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay and Brazil, agreed to block from their ports ships that flew the \"illegal\" Falklands flag.Hague played down an escalating row in the lead-up to April's 30th anniversary of the Argentinian invasion.\"Yes, there is a difference of view between Britain and South American nations about the sovereignty of the Falkland Islands but I don't think there is a desire across South America in general to impose any economic blockade,\" he told the Guardian.\"Argentina has in some ways tried to increase tension over this issue but that will never be productive, that will just leave the region more tense. It doesn't in any way change British policy nor will it ever lead to a change in policy. Our policy is based on the self-determination of the people of the Falklands \u2026 and that will remain the case.\"Hague said he had briefed Brazil's foreign ministry on attempts to impose sanctions on Iran over its nuclear programme when EU foreign ministers meet in Brussels. Brazil opposes sanctions, arguing they are ineffective and mostly harm the civilian population.\"There is not always agreement on the way forwards with Brazil but we've had some good discussions,\" Hague said.Asked about Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's recent tour of Latin America \u2013 which excluded Brazil \u2013 Hague said: \"I don't think we can draw too many conclusions from one itinerary, one visit by the president of Iran to South America.\"", "tags": ["Prince Harry", "Brazil", "Foreign policy", "Americas", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "World news", "Politics", "William Hague"], "title": "Prince Harry to visit Brazil"},{"date": "2012-03-07T17:12:27Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Property investors in Brazil had a fiesta last year as house prices jumped by 26.3%, while buyers in Ireland watched prices slump by a further 16.7%.Brazil was the standout success in the Knight Frank global house price index with more than double the increase experienced by the second-fastest growing country, Estonia (up 12.3%). The other top five risers were Hong Kong (up 11.3%), India (up 11.1%) and Slovenia (up 10.1%).Knight Frank said Brazil's \"remarkable performance is being fuelled by strong population growth, rising household wealth and an expanding mortgage market.\"Overall global property prices were up 0.5% in 2011. The bottom 12 performing countries were all in Europe, with Ireland leading the way down 16.7%, followed by Cyprus, Russia, Ukraine, Spain and Jersey. The UK came mid table with a 1.1% rise.", "tags": ["Real estate", "Global economy", "Business", "Property", "Money"], "title": "Brazil property investors celebrate bumper year"},{"date": "2012-02-29T11:06:06Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "There aren't any cabs in Caraiva. And there aren't any roads. In fact, reports of electricity coming to the town seven years ago may have been exaggerated. My first night in a beachfront villa at Casa da Praia \u2013 one of only a handful of pousadas in the town \u2013 was spent candlelit after the power went down. And when it rains, it washes away most contact with the outside world. But herein lies the appeal of one of Bahia's most remote, and most beautiful, coastal stretches.\"You must go further south to Caraiva,\" recommended a Brazilian friend when I told her of my plans to visit the chichi Bahian resort of Trancoso. \"It's paradise.\" So I did. After a day's long haul to Rio via Paris followed by three hours of short hop flights via Belo Horizonte, one aborted landing at Porto Seguro due to a flooded runway and then one successful one, a bumpy-as-hell two-hour 65km 4x4 drive, a canoe and then a donkey pulling a cart with the word \"taxi\" painted on it, I arrived. It had taken a full 24 hours, but I'd made it.Caraiva is, by all accounts, what Trancoso was 20 years ago, before the road was built south of the airport and Diane von Furstenberg and Terry Richardson started holidaying there. There are just a handful of pousadas, and when you walk along the beach, with its sand the colour of crystallised caramel and its feisty but warm Atlantic surf, there's little sign of civilisation at all. Most journeys are undertaken by fishing boat, and all of the homes are built on a stretch of sand cut off from the rest of Bahia by the mouth of the river. There's a small square with a tiny white church, and a pizzeria with a terrace at the riverside where the canoes are moored, and not much else. During the day, butterflies dance around you as you make your way through the lanes, and at night, fireflies take their place and flash like a hundred tiny stars.A rare slow and precious pace of life thrives in Caraiva. The native Patax\u00f3 H\u00e3h\u00e3h\u00e3e \u2013 one of seven tribes in Bahia \u2013 still live here untroubled, a 6km horse ride away in the Caramuru-Paragua\u00e7u reserve, with sloths dozing in huge numbers in the forests around them. There are over 54,000 Indians who live in the reserve, created by the then Indian Protection Service in 1926. On the way to Caraiva you'll pass a handful of tiny stalls at the roadside with the locals selling simple tube-shaped lampshades and other Pataxo handicrafts. The tribe welcomes visitors to see how they live and to try their hand at archery, making feather headdresses and to dine Pataxo-style, on freshly caught fish baked in leaves. Visits are easily arranged via your pousada or tour operator \u2013 this part of the world isn't entirely without commercial smarts.There's a touch of the throwback tie-dye to this town. If Trancoso was Bahia's 1970s drop-out idyll, then this is where the hippy B&B owners who didn't want to invest in wine lists and sushi chefs came when the fashion crowd invaded. It attracts the more intrepid travellers and people from the bigger cities who have decided to sell up and live the good life. Which isn't to say that the place is awash with gap year kids waxing lyrical about American Spirit organic tobacco: there are as many retired couples on long weekends from S\u00e3o Paulo here as there are students with summer jobs. There's a level of sophistication that belies the remoteness. The pousadas in Caraiva are all simply furnished and functional, although you might want to bring your own mosquito net. Most consist of detached chalets, dotted around a well-kept garden. Expect the basics and you won't be disappointed \u2013 there's air conditioning and hot water and the bed linen is inoffensive, but there are no designer, boutique flourishes and if you want mood lighting, then reach for a candle. You'll certainly eat very well though. Lunching every day at Casa da Praia, I became hooked on the vegetarian version of the feijoada \u2013 a black bean stew \u2013 and sizzling plates of fresh fish and king prawns. And of course the cacha\u00e7a-heavy caipirinha, which the Brazilians ignore in favour of caipiroska, a vodka-based alternative, which, to my sun-starved European tastebuds was a lime blast of feel-good fun in a glass.A trip to nearby Espelho beach is a must, to visit Silvinha, who has been living in the same candy-coloured house for 16 years. She has three tables on her porch, that can be reserved via your pousada (everyone on the coast knows her and has her number, but here it is anyway: +55 73 9985 4157) and most afternoons she cooks a set \u00a324-a-head lunch. It varies from day to day, with no menu as such, but there's always fish (on my visit, with soy, ginger and orange) and an array of colourful bowls filled with tropical veggies and sauces, dished up from bubbling saucepans and steaming pots in the kitchen of her house. As someone said to me before I went: \"you can taste the love\". Approaching her house from what must be one of the most beautiful beaches in South America, you can understand why Silvinha has never wanted to leave, and why it's become a word-of-mouth place of pilgrimage for locals and travellers.Although a bus thunders along the dirt track a couple of times a day, stopping just short of the river, Caraiva remains profoundly cut off from the outside world, and no one is likely to want to lay down asphalt or build bridges any day soon. Each November the guesthouses repair the winter's damage and unfurl the hammocks for what counts as a busy summer (December-February) in this part of the world. You might have to carry your own case back to the canoe if the donkeys are still asleep, but it's a small price to pay for such unspoilt beauty and perfect solitude.Journey Latin America (020-8747 8315, journeylatinamerica.co.uk) offers six nights in Caraiva and three nights in Rio de Janeiro from \u00a32,363, including all flights, hotels, transfers and breakfasts.Air France (who recently began partnering with GOL, which offers regular internal flights to Porto Seguro for Caraiva) flies from London to Rio de Janeiro via Paris from \u00a3542 return (0845 050 5871, airfrance.co.uk).Pousada Casa da Praia (+55 73 3274 6833, casasdapraiacaraiva.com.br) has rooms from \u00a335per night. For more information visit caraiva.com.br.", "tags": ["Beach holidays", "Travel", "Brazil holidays", "South America holidays", "Romantic trips", "Bahia holidays"], "title": "A beach to yourself in Brazil"},{"date": "2012-03-15T08:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Strategic partnerships in higher education have commonly been driven by notions of complementarity. This might be in the form of complementary skills and assets, the most common example being joint research, or differences in location, as has been the case with many teaching partnerships.So, given both our physical proximity and our obvious similarities, including being large Russell Group universities in the Midlands and having similar teaching and research portfolios, it was a bold step for the Universities of Birmingham and Nottingham to embark on broad-based strategic partnership a year ago.Despite these similarities and the obvious challenges of working in such close collaboration, we were convinced that there were opportunities for mutual benefits and a much greater impact.From the outset, we agreed to work together in a number of key areas including research initiatives, developing the student experience and business engagement activities. Internationalisation was another obvious area for collaboration and it was soon apparent that Brazil, a country in which both institutions have historically had a low profile, was a place of significant shared interest and offered a great opportunity to test our partnership.Both universities saw opportunities for developing research connections in Brazil. The quality and ambition of Brazilian universities is considerable; research and education are valued both politically and socially in the country and the economy is strong and growing, fuelled in part by its rich natural resources. In addition, we believe our effort aligns well with the UK government and companies looking to foster closer relations with Brazil.The ability to operate at scale has allowed us to develop 20 full-fee PhD scholarships annually for Brazilian students; a visiting fellows programme and a \u00a3480k joint research investment fund with the S\u00e3o Paulo Research Foundation. We have also planned a series of joint workshops in-country focused around energy (oil and gas, bioenergy), with further themes under discussion.Alongside the benefits of scale are the traditional benefits of complementarity. Our collaboration enables each partner to bring its individual strengths to the table. We have found this could be research expertise or in areas such as student exchange and teaching links. An example of this is in the area of ultra-cold atoms and energy \u2013 Birmingham has expertise in optical lattices and nuclear energy and Nottingham in atom chips and bioenergy; both areas being of particular relevance in our links with Brazil.And we share costs, most visibly, those of operating an office in Joinville (State of Santa Catarina) to support in-country activity. This lets us to be more efficient and share information we already have \u2013 something which is of particular significance in Brazil where understanding how 'the system' works is key to longer term success.Beyond our international collaborations, there is further potential to collaborate on equipment and staff. The partnership allows the universities to share best practice and diversify income while strengthening research and teaching, and improving management and administration.Our arrangement does not prevent us from collaborating with other partners. What is distinct about this model is the collaborative areas and the opportunities for staff to work together.But the partnership is not easy. The first stage is ensuring it is based on shared values, goals, and expectations. In particular, convincing our colleagues that competition and collaboration can co-exist within such a partnership is a particular challenge. But, without firm foundations, there is a likelihood the partnership will fail due to divergent agendas. It is crucial to take time and effort at the beginning to get to know each other, agreeing what you are going to do together, and separately. For instance, we probably won't collaborate on student recruitment in Brazil or elsewhere as we would be trying to attract the same type of student.Although it is still early, there is a real sense of purpose around what we are doing in Brazil. We hope what will follow will be additional academic collaborations, increased research income, and greater visibility. Overall, we need to be prepared to invest considerable time and energy working together and acknowledge that the effort may take a while to bear fruit.Professor Malcolm Press is pro-vice-chancellor of international engagement in the Americas at the University of Birmingham, and Professor Christine Ennew is pro-vice-chancellor of internationalisation and science at the University of Nottingham.This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up for free to become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Partnerships", "Research"], "title": "Brazil and beyond: inside Birmingham and Nottingham universities' research partnership"},{"date": "2012-01-19T17:29:37Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Prince Harry will visit Brazil in March as part of \"Britain's most ambitious effort to strengthen ties with Latin America in 200 years\", the foreign secretary has announced, playing down differences between the UK and the continent over the future of the Falkland Islands.William Hague \u2013 in Brazil as part of a two-day diplomatic offensive designed to \"re-energise\" wilting links between the UK and Latin America's booming emerging economies \u2013 said the 27-year-old prince would attend an event on Rio de Janeiro's iconic Sugar Loaf mountain. No further details were given.\"The British retreat from Latin America is over,\" Hague told the Guardian in an interview at Rio's Itamaraty palace.\"The policy of closing embassies, withdrawing diplomatic missions, I have brought to an end and we are reversing it,\" he said, pointing out that an embassy had been opened in El Salvador and a consulate added in the Brazilian city of Recife.Despite Hague's upbeat message, a number of significant diplomatic disagreements remain between London and Brasilia, not least over the Falklands Islands, where Prince William is being posted for six weeks from next month in his role as an RAF search and rescue pilot.On the eve of Hague's trip to Brazil, Argentina's foreign minister, Hector Timerman, described Britain as \"a synonym for colonialism\", after David Cameron had said Argentina's recent rhetoric was \"more like colonialism\".However, in an interview last October, Hague laid out coalition plans to \"build whole new alliances with the emerging powers\".\"We have ministers going to places where no ministers have been for decades or even ever.\"Speaking on Thursday, Hague said his visit marked the start of a \"strategic dialogue between the UK and Brazil\" and \"more active engagement with Latin America\".\"There is vast scope for greater co-operation \u2026 particularly on immense global issues like climate change and international development.\"We are not short of things to sell to Brazil,\" he added, outlining opportunities for British companies ranging from oil and gas, to infrastructure, management and development, pharmaceuticals and aerospace.In a keynote speech, set to be delivered on Thursday afternoon, Hague said the global balance of power had entered a new phase.\"International relations are no longer dominated by a handful of powerful nation states that can dictate terms for the rest,\" he said, according to an advance copy. \"That era is over.\"Improved relations with Brazil were part of \"new chapter in this history\", he said.\"In the late 20th century Britain looked away; four of our Latin American embassies were shut, diplomats were withdrawn and our links faltered just as your continent began its extraordinary rise,\" he said.Brazilian commentators reacted cautiously to talk of a new era of transatlantic relations, pointing to the relatively low level of trade between Brazil and the UK.\"I think we are starting from a lower base than I would like,\" Hague admitted. \"I think that British relations with Latin America, including Brazil, have been neglected over the last decade and possibly more. I don't mince words about that. But we are energetically setting about putting that right. It is true that economically our relations [represent] quite a small percentage of our trade.\"[But] British companies are already the 4th largest investor in Brazil \u2026 and the export figures are improving dramatically.\"Last month tension over the disputed Falklands erupted after the Mercosur trade bloc, which includes Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay and Brazil, agreed to block from their ports ships that flew the \"illegal\" Falklands flag.Hague played down an escalating row in the lead-up to April's 30th anniversary of the Argentinian invasion.\"Yes, there is a difference of view between Britain and South American nations about the sovereignty of the Falkland Islands but I don't think there is a desire across South America in general to impose any economic blockade,\" he told the Guardian.\"Argentina has in some ways tried to increase tension over this issue but that will never be productive, that will just leave the region more tense. It doesn't in any way change British policy nor will it ever lead to a change in policy. Our policy is based on the self-determination of the people of the Falklands \u2026 and that will remain the case.\"Hague said he had briefed Brazil's foreign ministry on attempts to impose sanctions on Iran over its nuclear programme when EU foreign ministers meet in Brussels. Brazil opposes sanctions, arguing they are ineffective and mostly harm the civilian population.\"There is not always agreement on the way forwards with Brazil but we've had some good discussions,\" Hague said.Asked about Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's recent tour of Latin America \u2013 which excluded Brazil \u2013 Hague said: \"I don't think we can draw too many conclusions from one itinerary, one visit by the president of Iran to South America.\"", "tags": ["Prince Harry", "Brazil", "Foreign policy", "Americas", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "World news", "Politics", "William Hague"], "title": "Prince Harry to visit Brazil"},{"date": "2012-03-07T17:12:27Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Property investors in Brazil had a fiesta last year as house prices jumped by 26.3%, while buyers in Ireland watched prices slump by a further 16.7%.Brazil was the standout success in the Knight Frank global house price index with more than double the increase experienced by the second-fastest growing country, Estonia (up 12.3%). The other top five risers were Hong Kong (up 11.3%), India (up 11.1%) and Slovenia (up 10.1%).Knight Frank said Brazil's \"remarkable performance is being fuelled by strong population growth, rising household wealth and an expanding mortgage market.\"Overall global property prices were up 0.5% in 2011. The bottom 12 performing countries were all in Europe, with Ireland leading the way down 16.7%, followed by Cyprus, Russia, Ukraine, Spain and Jersey. The UK came mid table with a 1.1% rise.", "tags": ["Real estate", "Global economy", "Business", "Property", "Money"], "title": "Brazil property investors celebrate bumper year"},{"date": "2012-02-29T11:06:06Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "There aren't any cabs in Caraiva. And there aren't any roads. In fact, reports of electricity coming to the town seven years ago may have been exaggerated. My first night in a beachfront villa at Casa da Praia \u2013 one of only a handful of pousadas in the town \u2013 was spent candlelit after the power went down. And when it rains, it washes away most contact with the outside world. But herein lies the appeal of one of Bahia's most remote, and most beautiful, coastal stretches.\"You must go further south to Caraiva,\" recommended a Brazilian friend when I told her of my plans to visit the chichi Bahian resort of Trancoso. \"It's paradise.\" So I did. After a day's long haul to Rio via Paris followed by three hours of short hop flights via Belo Horizonte, one aborted landing at Porto Seguro due to a flooded runway and then one successful one, a bumpy-as-hell two-hour 65km 4x4 drive, a canoe and then a donkey pulling a cart with the word \"taxi\" painted on it, I arrived. It had taken a full 24 hours, but I'd made it.Caraiva is, by all accounts, what Trancoso was 20 years ago, before the road was built south of the airport and Diane von Furstenberg and Terry Richardson started holidaying there. There are just a handful of pousadas, and when you walk along the beach, with its sand the colour of crystallised caramel and its feisty but warm Atlantic surf, there's little sign of civilisation at all. Most journeys are undertaken by fishing boat, and all of the homes are built on a stretch of sand cut off from the rest of Bahia by the mouth of the river. There's a small square with a tiny white church, and a pizzeria with a terrace at the riverside where the canoes are moored, and not much else. During the day, butterflies dance around you as you make your way through the lanes, and at night, fireflies take their place and flash like a hundred tiny stars.A rare slow and precious pace of life thrives in Caraiva. The native Patax\u00f3 H\u00e3h\u00e3h\u00e3e \u2013 one of seven tribes in Bahia \u2013 still live here untroubled, a 6km horse ride away in the Caramuru-Paragua\u00e7u reserve, with sloths dozing in huge numbers in the forests around them. There are over 54,000 Indians who live in the reserve, created by the then Indian Protection Service in 1926. On the way to Caraiva you'll pass a handful of tiny stalls at the roadside with the locals selling simple tube-shaped lampshades and other Pataxo handicrafts. The tribe welcomes visitors to see how they live and to try their hand at archery, making feather headdresses and to dine Pataxo-style, on freshly caught fish baked in leaves. Visits are easily arranged via your pousada or tour operator \u2013 this part of the world isn't entirely without commercial smarts.There's a touch of the throwback tie-dye to this town. If Trancoso was Bahia's 1970s drop-out idyll, then this is where the hippy B&B owners who didn't want to invest in wine lists and sushi chefs came when the fashion crowd invaded. It attracts the more intrepid travellers and people from the bigger cities who have decided to sell up and live the good life. Which isn't to say that the place is awash with gap year kids waxing lyrical about American Spirit organic tobacco: there are as many retired couples on long weekends from S\u00e3o Paulo here as there are students with summer jobs. There's a level of sophistication that belies the remoteness. The pousadas in Caraiva are all simply furnished and functional, although you might want to bring your own mosquito net. Most consist of detached chalets, dotted around a well-kept garden. Expect the basics and you won't be disappointed \u2013 there's air conditioning and hot water and the bed linen is inoffensive, but there are no designer, boutique flourishes and if you want mood lighting, then reach for a candle. You'll certainly eat very well though. Lunching every day at Casa da Praia, I became hooked on the vegetarian version of the feijoada \u2013 a black bean stew \u2013 and sizzling plates of fresh fish and king prawns. And of course the cacha\u00e7a-heavy caipirinha, which the Brazilians ignore in favour of caipiroska, a vodka-based alternative, which, to my sun-starved European tastebuds was a lime blast of feel-good fun in a glass.A trip to nearby Espelho beach is a must, to visit Silvinha, who has been living in the same candy-coloured house for 16 years. She has three tables on her porch, that can be reserved via your pousada (everyone on the coast knows her and has her number, but here it is anyway: +55 73 9985 4157) and most afternoons she cooks a set \u00a324-a-head lunch. It varies from day to day, with no menu as such, but there's always fish (on my visit, with soy, ginger and orange) and an array of colourful bowls filled with tropical veggies and sauces, dished up from bubbling saucepans and steaming pots in the kitchen of her house. As someone said to me before I went: \"you can taste the love\". Approaching her house from what must be one of the most beautiful beaches in South America, you can understand why Silvinha has never wanted to leave, and why it's become a word-of-mouth place of pilgrimage for locals and travellers.Although a bus thunders along the dirt track a couple of times a day, stopping just short of the river, Caraiva remains profoundly cut off from the outside world, and no one is likely to want to lay down asphalt or build bridges any day soon. Each November the guesthouses repair the winter's damage and unfurl the hammocks for what counts as a busy summer (December-February) in this part of the world. You might have to carry your own case back to the canoe if the donkeys are still asleep, but it's a small price to pay for such unspoilt beauty and perfect solitude.Journey Latin America (020-8747 8315, journeylatinamerica.co.uk) offers six nights in Caraiva and three nights in Rio de Janeiro from \u00a32,363, including all flights, hotels, transfers and breakfasts.Air France (who recently began partnering with GOL, which offers regular internal flights to Porto Seguro for Caraiva) flies from London to Rio de Janeiro via Paris from \u00a3542 return (0845 050 5871, airfrance.co.uk).Pousada Casa da Praia (+55 73 3274 6833, casasdapraiacaraiva.com.br) has rooms from \u00a335per night. For more information visit caraiva.com.br.", "tags": ["Beach holidays", "Travel", "Brazil holidays", "South America holidays", "Romantic trips", "Bahia holidays"], "title": "A beach to yourself in Brazil"},{"date": "2012-03-15T08:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Strategic partnerships in higher education have commonly been driven by notions of complementarity. This might be in the form of complementary skills and assets, the most common example being joint research, or differences in location, as has been the case with many teaching partnerships.So, given both our physical proximity and our obvious similarities, including being large Russell Group universities in the Midlands and having similar teaching and research portfolios, it was a bold step for the Universities of Birmingham and Nottingham to embark on broad-based strategic partnership a year ago.Despite these similarities and the obvious challenges of working in such close collaboration, we were convinced that there were opportunities for mutual benefits and a much greater impact.From the outset, we agreed to work together in a number of key areas including research initiatives, developing the student experience and business engagement activities. Internationalisation was another obvious area for collaboration and it was soon apparent that Brazil, a country in which both institutions have historically had a low profile, was a place of significant shared interest and offered a great opportunity to test our partnership.Both universities saw opportunities for developing research connections in Brazil. The quality and ambition of Brazilian universities is considerable; research and education are valued both politically and socially in the country and the economy is strong and growing, fuelled in part by its rich natural resources. In addition, we believe our effort aligns well with the UK government and companies looking to foster closer relations with Brazil.The ability to operate at scale has allowed us to develop 20 full-fee PhD scholarships annually for Brazilian students; a visiting fellows programme and a \u00a3480k joint research investment fund with the S\u00e3o Paulo Research Foundation. We have also planned a series of joint workshops in-country focused around energy (oil and gas, bioenergy), with further themes under discussion.Alongside the benefits of scale are the traditional benefits of complementarity. Our collaboration enables each partner to bring its individual strengths to the table. We have found this could be research expertise or in areas such as student exchange and teaching links. An example of this is in the area of ultra-cold atoms and energy \u2013 Birmingham has expertise in optical lattices and nuclear energy and Nottingham in atom chips and bioenergy; both areas being of particular relevance in our links with Brazil.And we share costs, most visibly, those of operating an office in Joinville (State of Santa Catarina) to support in-country activity. This lets us to be more efficient and share information we already have \u2013 something which is of particular significance in Brazil where understanding how 'the system' works is key to longer term success.Beyond our international collaborations, there is further potential to collaborate on equipment and staff. The partnership allows the universities to share best practice and diversify income while strengthening research and teaching, and improving management and administration.Our arrangement does not prevent us from collaborating with other partners. What is distinct about this model is the collaborative areas and the opportunities for staff to work together.But the partnership is not easy. The first stage is ensuring it is based on shared values, goals, and expectations. In particular, convincing our colleagues that competition and collaboration can co-exist within such a partnership is a particular challenge. But, without firm foundations, there is a likelihood the partnership will fail due to divergent agendas. It is crucial to take time and effort at the beginning to get to know each other, agreeing what you are going to do together, and separately. For instance, we probably won't collaborate on student recruitment in Brazil or elsewhere as we would be trying to attract the same type of student.Although it is still early, there is a real sense of purpose around what we are doing in Brazil. We hope what will follow will be additional academic collaborations, increased research income, and greater visibility. Overall, we need to be prepared to invest considerable time and energy working together and acknowledge that the effort may take a while to bear fruit.Professor Malcolm Press is pro-vice-chancellor of international engagement in the Americas at the University of Birmingham, and Professor Christine Ennew is pro-vice-chancellor of internationalisation and science at the University of Nottingham.This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up for free to become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Partnerships", "Research"], "title": "Brazil and beyond: inside Birmingham and Nottingham universities' research partnership"},{"date": "2012-03-16T23:00:40Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I have just been landed with an outrageous amount for a three-minute reverse-charge call made by my son from Brazil in an emergency. They have charged me \u00a3117.77 on top of my usual bill, and I am desperate since I am unemployed at the moment. Is this a normal tariff for a three-minute call? SM, LondonReverse-charge international calls are notoriously expensive and this was no exception. BT explained that \"collect calls\" (reverse-charge calls) are charged in one minute blocks with a five-minute minimum. It says your son made two calls one of three minutes and another one of four minutes, which, because of this formula, were charged at the same five-minute price. The fees for collect calls at the time of the calls was \u00a38.76 per minute, plus a facility fee of \u00a315 per call.BT has agreed, as a gesture of goodwill, to recalculate the calls using the cost of a direct-dial call to Brazil. This totals \u00a335.91 so, taking that off the \u00a3117.77, it has credited your account with \u00a381.86.Next time your son is abroad you might want to tell him not to make a reverse-charge call and instead, if he has a mobile, to text you and ask you to call him back on a landline number.We welcome letters but cannot answer individually. Email us at consumer.champions@theguardian.com or write to Bachelor & Brignall, Money, the Guardian, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. Please include a daytime phone number", "tags": ["Consumer affairs", "Consumer rights", "Family finances", "Household bills", "Internet", " phones & broadband", "Money"], "title": "Brazil reverse-charge international call ends up costing over \u00a3100"},{"date": "2012-01-19T17:29:37Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Prince Harry will visit Brazil in March as part of \"Britain's most ambitious effort to strengthen ties with Latin America in 200 years\", the foreign secretary has announced, playing down differences between the UK and the continent over the future of the Falkland Islands.William Hague \u2013 in Brazil as part of a two-day diplomatic offensive designed to \"re-energise\" wilting links between the UK and Latin America's booming emerging economies \u2013 said the 27-year-old prince would attend an event on Rio de Janeiro's iconic Sugar Loaf mountain. No further details were given.\"The British retreat from Latin America is over,\" Hague told the Guardian in an interview at Rio's Itamaraty palace.\"The policy of closing embassies, withdrawing diplomatic missions, I have brought to an end and we are reversing it,\" he said, pointing out that an embassy had been opened in El Salvador and a consulate added in the Brazilian city of Recife.Despite Hague's upbeat message, a number of significant diplomatic disagreements remain between London and Brasilia, not least over the Falklands Islands, where Prince William is being posted for six weeks from next month in his role as an RAF search and rescue pilot.On the eve of Hague's trip to Brazil, Argentina's foreign minister, Hector Timerman, described Britain as \"a synonym for colonialism\", after David Cameron had said Argentina's recent rhetoric was \"more like colonialism\".However, in an interview last October, Hague laid out coalition plans to \"build whole new alliances with the emerging powers\".\"We have ministers going to places where no ministers have been for decades or even ever.\"Speaking on Thursday, Hague said his visit marked the start of a \"strategic dialogue between the UK and Brazil\" and \"more active engagement with Latin America\".\"There is vast scope for greater co-operation \u2026 particularly on immense global issues like climate change and international development.\"We are not short of things to sell to Brazil,\" he added, outlining opportunities for British companies ranging from oil and gas, to infrastructure, management and development, pharmaceuticals and aerospace.In a keynote speech, set to be delivered on Thursday afternoon, Hague said the global balance of power had entered a new phase.\"International relations are no longer dominated by a handful of powerful nation states that can dictate terms for the rest,\" he said, according to an advance copy. \"That era is over.\"Improved relations with Brazil were part of \"new chapter in this history\", he said.\"In the late 20th century Britain looked away; four of our Latin American embassies were shut, diplomats were withdrawn and our links faltered just as your continent began its extraordinary rise,\" he said.Brazilian commentators reacted cautiously to talk of a new era of transatlantic relations, pointing to the relatively low level of trade between Brazil and the UK.\"I think we are starting from a lower base than I would like,\" Hague admitted. \"I think that British relations with Latin America, including Brazil, have been neglected over the last decade and possibly more. I don't mince words about that. But we are energetically setting about putting that right. It is true that economically our relations [represent] quite a small percentage of our trade.\"[But] British companies are already the 4th largest investor in Brazil \u2026 and the export figures are improving dramatically.\"Last month tension over the disputed Falklands erupted after the Mercosur trade bloc, which includes Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay and Brazil, agreed to block from their ports ships that flew the \"illegal\" Falklands flag.Hague played down an escalating row in the lead-up to April's 30th anniversary of the Argentinian invasion.\"Yes, there is a difference of view between Britain and South American nations about the sovereignty of the Falkland Islands but I don't think there is a desire across South America in general to impose any economic blockade,\" he told the Guardian.\"Argentina has in some ways tried to increase tension over this issue but that will never be productive, that will just leave the region more tense. It doesn't in any way change British policy nor will it ever lead to a change in policy. Our policy is based on the self-determination of the people of the Falklands \u2026 and that will remain the case.\"Hague said he had briefed Brazil's foreign ministry on attempts to impose sanctions on Iran over its nuclear programme when EU foreign ministers meet in Brussels. Brazil opposes sanctions, arguing they are ineffective and mostly harm the civilian population.\"There is not always agreement on the way forwards with Brazil but we've had some good discussions,\" Hague said.Asked about Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's recent tour of Latin America \u2013 which excluded Brazil \u2013 Hague said: \"I don't think we can draw too many conclusions from one itinerary, one visit by the president of Iran to South America.\"", "tags": ["Prince Harry", "Brazil", "Foreign policy", "Americas", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "World news", "Politics", "William Hague"], "title": "Prince Harry to visit Brazil"},{"date": "2012-03-07T17:12:27Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Property investors in Brazil had a fiesta last year as house prices jumped by 26.3%, while buyers in Ireland watched prices slump by a further 16.7%.Brazil was the standout success in the Knight Frank global house price index with more than double the increase experienced by the second-fastest growing country, Estonia (up 12.3%). The other top five risers were Hong Kong (up 11.3%), India (up 11.1%) and Slovenia (up 10.1%).Knight Frank said Brazil's \"remarkable performance is being fuelled by strong population growth, rising household wealth and an expanding mortgage market.\"Overall global property prices were up 0.5% in 2011. The bottom 12 performing countries were all in Europe, with Ireland leading the way down 16.7%, followed by Cyprus, Russia, Ukraine, Spain and Jersey. The UK came mid table with a 1.1% rise.", "tags": ["Real estate", "Global economy", "Business", "Property", "Money"], "title": "Brazil property investors celebrate bumper year"},{"date": "2012-02-29T11:06:06Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "There aren't any cabs in Caraiva. And there aren't any roads. In fact, reports of electricity coming to the town seven years ago may have been exaggerated. My first night in a beachfront villa at Casa da Praia \u2013 one of only a handful of pousadas in the town \u2013 was spent candlelit after the power went down. And when it rains, it washes away most contact with the outside world. But herein lies the appeal of one of Bahia's most remote, and most beautiful, coastal stretches.\"You must go further south to Caraiva,\" recommended a Brazilian friend when I told her of my plans to visit the chichi Bahian resort of Trancoso. \"It's paradise.\" So I did. After a day's long haul to Rio via Paris followed by three hours of short hop flights via Belo Horizonte, one aborted landing at Porto Seguro due to a flooded runway and then one successful one, a bumpy-as-hell two-hour 65km 4x4 drive, a canoe and then a donkey pulling a cart with the word \"taxi\" painted on it, I arrived. It had taken a full 24 hours, but I'd made it.Caraiva is, by all accounts, what Trancoso was 20 years ago, before the road was built south of the airport and Diane von Furstenberg and Terry Richardson started holidaying there. There are just a handful of pousadas, and when you walk along the beach, with its sand the colour of crystallised caramel and its feisty but warm Atlantic surf, there's little sign of civilisation at all. Most journeys are undertaken by fishing boat, and all of the homes are built on a stretch of sand cut off from the rest of Bahia by the mouth of the river. There's a small square with a tiny white church, and a pizzeria with a terrace at the riverside where the canoes are moored, and not much else. During the day, butterflies dance around you as you make your way through the lanes, and at night, fireflies take their place and flash like a hundred tiny stars.A rare slow and precious pace of life thrives in Caraiva. The native Patax\u00f3 H\u00e3h\u00e3h\u00e3e \u2013 one of seven tribes in Bahia \u2013 still live here untroubled, a 6km horse ride away in the Caramuru-Paragua\u00e7u reserve, with sloths dozing in huge numbers in the forests around them. There are over 54,000 Indians who live in the reserve, created by the then Indian Protection Service in 1926. On the way to Caraiva you'll pass a handful of tiny stalls at the roadside with the locals selling simple tube-shaped lampshades and other Pataxo handicrafts. The tribe welcomes visitors to see how they live and to try their hand at archery, making feather headdresses and to dine Pataxo-style, on freshly caught fish baked in leaves. Visits are easily arranged via your pousada or tour operator \u2013 this part of the world isn't entirely without commercial smarts.There's a touch of the throwback tie-dye to this town. If Trancoso was Bahia's 1970s drop-out idyll, then this is where the hippy B&B owners who didn't want to invest in wine lists and sushi chefs came when the fashion crowd invaded. It attracts the more intrepid travellers and people from the bigger cities who have decided to sell up and live the good life. Which isn't to say that the place is awash with gap year kids waxing lyrical about American Spirit organic tobacco: there are as many retired couples on long weekends from S\u00e3o Paulo here as there are students with summer jobs. There's a level of sophistication that belies the remoteness. The pousadas in Caraiva are all simply furnished and functional, although you might want to bring your own mosquito net. Most consist of detached chalets, dotted around a well-kept garden. Expect the basics and you won't be disappointed \u2013 there's air conditioning and hot water and the bed linen is inoffensive, but there are no designer, boutique flourishes and if you want mood lighting, then reach for a candle. You'll certainly eat very well though. Lunching every day at Casa da Praia, I became hooked on the vegetarian version of the feijoada \u2013 a black bean stew \u2013 and sizzling plates of fresh fish and king prawns. And of course the cacha\u00e7a-heavy caipirinha, which the Brazilians ignore in favour of caipiroska, a vodka-based alternative, which, to my sun-starved European tastebuds was a lime blast of feel-good fun in a glass.A trip to nearby Espelho beach is a must, to visit Silvinha, who has been living in the same candy-coloured house for 16 years. She has three tables on her porch, that can be reserved via your pousada (everyone on the coast knows her and has her number, but here it is anyway: +55 73 9985 4157) and most afternoons she cooks a set \u00a324-a-head lunch. It varies from day to day, with no menu as such, but there's always fish (on my visit, with soy, ginger and orange) and an array of colourful bowls filled with tropical veggies and sauces, dished up from bubbling saucepans and steaming pots in the kitchen of her house. As someone said to me before I went: \"you can taste the love\". Approaching her house from what must be one of the most beautiful beaches in South America, you can understand why Silvinha has never wanted to leave, and why it's become a word-of-mouth place of pilgrimage for locals and travellers.Although a bus thunders along the dirt track a couple of times a day, stopping just short of the river, Caraiva remains profoundly cut off from the outside world, and no one is likely to want to lay down asphalt or build bridges any day soon. Each November the guesthouses repair the winter's damage and unfurl the hammocks for what counts as a busy summer (December-February) in this part of the world. You might have to carry your own case back to the canoe if the donkeys are still asleep, but it's a small price to pay for such unspoilt beauty and perfect solitude.Journey Latin America (020-8747 8315, journeylatinamerica.co.uk) offers six nights in Caraiva and three nights in Rio de Janeiro from \u00a32,363, including all flights, hotels, transfers and breakfasts.Air France (who recently began partnering with GOL, which offers regular internal flights to Porto Seguro for Caraiva) flies from London to Rio de Janeiro via Paris from \u00a3542 return (0845 050 5871, airfrance.co.uk).Pousada Casa da Praia (+55 73 3274 6833, casasdapraiacaraiva.com.br) has rooms from \u00a335per night. For more information visit caraiva.com.br.", "tags": ["Beach holidays", "Travel", "Brazil holidays", "South America holidays", "Romantic trips", "Bahia holidays"], "title": "A beach to yourself in Brazil"},{"date": "2012-03-15T08:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Strategic partnerships in higher education have commonly been driven by notions of complementarity. This might be in the form of complementary skills and assets, the most common example being joint research, or differences in location, as has been the case with many teaching partnerships.So, given both our physical proximity and our obvious similarities, including being large Russell Group universities in the Midlands and having similar teaching and research portfolios, it was a bold step for the Universities of Birmingham and Nottingham to embark on broad-based strategic partnership a year ago.Despite these similarities and the obvious challenges of working in such close collaboration, we were convinced that there were opportunities for mutual benefits and a much greater impact.From the outset, we agreed to work together in a number of key areas including research initiatives, developing the student experience and business engagement activities. Internationalisation was another obvious area for collaboration and it was soon apparent that Brazil, a country in which both institutions have historically had a low profile, was a place of significant shared interest and offered a great opportunity to test our partnership.Both universities saw opportunities for developing research connections in Brazil. The quality and ambition of Brazilian universities is considerable; research and education are valued both politically and socially in the country and the economy is strong and growing, fuelled in part by its rich natural resources. In addition, we believe our effort aligns well with the UK government and companies looking to foster closer relations with Brazil.The ability to operate at scale has allowed us to develop 20 full-fee PhD scholarships annually for Brazilian students; a visiting fellows programme and a \u00a3480k joint research investment fund with the S\u00e3o Paulo Research Foundation. We have also planned a series of joint workshops in-country focused around energy (oil and gas, bioenergy), with further themes under discussion.Alongside the benefits of scale are the traditional benefits of complementarity. Our collaboration enables each partner to bring its individual strengths to the table. We have found this could be research expertise or in areas such as student exchange and teaching links. An example of this is in the area of ultra-cold atoms and energy \u2013 Birmingham has expertise in optical lattices and nuclear energy and Nottingham in atom chips and bioenergy; both areas being of particular relevance in our links with Brazil.And we share costs, most visibly, those of operating an office in Joinville (State of Santa Catarina) to support in-country activity. This lets us to be more efficient and share information we already have \u2013 something which is of particular significance in Brazil where understanding how 'the system' works is key to longer term success.Beyond our international collaborations, there is further potential to collaborate on equipment and staff. The partnership allows the universities to share best practice and diversify income while strengthening research and teaching, and improving management and administration.Our arrangement does not prevent us from collaborating with other partners. What is distinct about this model is the collaborative areas and the opportunities for staff to work together.But the partnership is not easy. The first stage is ensuring it is based on shared values, goals, and expectations. In particular, convincing our colleagues that competition and collaboration can co-exist within such a partnership is a particular challenge. But, without firm foundations, there is a likelihood the partnership will fail due to divergent agendas. It is crucial to take time and effort at the beginning to get to know each other, agreeing what you are going to do together, and separately. For instance, we probably won't collaborate on student recruitment in Brazil or elsewhere as we would be trying to attract the same type of student.Although it is still early, there is a real sense of purpose around what we are doing in Brazil. We hope what will follow will be additional academic collaborations, increased research income, and greater visibility. Overall, we need to be prepared to invest considerable time and energy working together and acknowledge that the effort may take a while to bear fruit.Professor Malcolm Press is pro-vice-chancellor of international engagement in the Americas at the University of Birmingham, and Professor Christine Ennew is pro-vice-chancellor of internationalisation and science at the University of Nottingham.This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up for free to become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Partnerships", "Research"], "title": "Brazil and beyond: inside Birmingham and Nottingham universities' research partnership"},{"date": "2012-03-16T23:00:40Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I have just been landed with an outrageous amount for a three-minute reverse-charge call made by my son from Brazil in an emergency. They have charged me \u00a3117.77 on top of my usual bill, and I am desperate since I am unemployed at the moment. Is this a normal tariff for a three-minute call? SM, LondonReverse-charge international calls are notoriously expensive and this was no exception. BT explained that \"collect calls\" (reverse-charge calls) are charged in one minute blocks with a five-minute minimum. It says your son made two calls one of three minutes and another one of four minutes, which, because of this formula, were charged at the same five-minute price. The fees for collect calls at the time of the calls was \u00a38.76 per minute, plus a facility fee of \u00a315 per call.BT has agreed, as a gesture of goodwill, to recalculate the calls using the cost of a direct-dial call to Brazil. This totals \u00a335.91 so, taking that off the \u00a3117.77, it has credited your account with \u00a381.86.Next time your son is abroad you might want to tell him not to make a reverse-charge call and instead, if he has a mobile, to text you and ask you to call him back on a landline number.We welcome letters but cannot answer individually. Email us at consumer.champions@theguardian.com or write to Bachelor & Brignall, Money, the Guardian, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. Please include a daytime phone number", "tags": ["Consumer affairs", "Consumer rights", "Family finances", "Household bills", "Internet", " phones & broadband", "Money"], "title": "Brazil reverse-charge international call ends up costing over \u00a3100"},{"date": "2012-03-06T14:30:20Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Economy: Well that's the point, obviously. According to the Centre for Economics and Business Research (CEBR), Brazil has now overtaken the UK as the world's sixth largest economy. Despite growing at a mere 3.5% last year (against 7.5% over the previous few years) the Latin American powerhouse has seen its GDP reach a record \u00a31.6tn. And it's not about to hit the buffers any time soon.Population: Partly explains the above. As well as being the world's sixth largest economy, Brazil is also the world's sixth most populous country. It has around 200 million people and is (another plus) overwhelmingly young: some 62% of Brazilians are under 29 years of age. The country also has the the largest number of people of Japanese descent outside Japan. Although that's probably not relevant.Football: Now we're getting to it. As they say in Brazil: \"Os ingleses o inventaram, os brasileiros o aperfei\u00e7oaram\" (\"The English invented it, the Brazilians perfected it\"). The most successful national football team in the history of the Fifa World Cup, Brazil are the only national team to have played in every World Cup finals and have lifted the trophy a record five timesBeaches: The Brazilian equivalent of \"just my cup of tea\" is apparently \"\u00e9 minha praia\" (\"That's my beach\"); that's two different cultures for you. More than 8,000 miles of glorious coastline and a host of cultural icons: The Girl from Ipanema, Copacabana, Havaianas flip-flops, unfeasibly small bikinis, eponymous waxings ...Tropical rainforest: Loads of it (and disappearing slightly less fast than before).Exotic indigenous peoples: The national Indian foundation Funai has confirmed the presence of 67 different uncontacted tribes in Brazil.Economy: Not so hot. In economist-speak, the politest way to put it is that Britain's recovery \"failed to gain any traction in 2011\". The latest figures suggest the UK economy grew by a lousy 0.9% for the full year, having actually gone into reverse by 0.2% at the end of the year. The gloomier forecasts for this year predict a further 1% shrinkage. Go Blighty!Population: Well, we're trying. Britain's population is growing at its fastest rate in almost half a century, but it's still barely a third the size of Brazil's. According to the Office for National Statistics, 62.3 million people were living in Britain in 2010, around 0.8% more than the previous year.Football: We (at least, the English) drew up the first set of modern rules for the Beautiful Game. We boast the world's oldest association football club (Sheffield FC), the first national team (with Scotland), the first national league and the first knockout cup. Other than that, we apparently won the World Cup, once, a long time ago. Since then the best we've done is fourth.Beaches: Nearly 8,000 miles of glorious coastline (thanks mainly to the islands) and a host of cultural icons: fish'n'chips, saucy postcards, windbreaks, soggy one-pieces ... What's not to love?Tropical rainforest: Er, the Eden project.Exotic indigenous peoples: Have you seen the streets of Newcastle on a Saturday night?", "tags": ["Economic growth (GDP)", "Brazil", "UK news", "Economics", "Business", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "What does Brazil have that the UK doesn't?"},{"date": "2012-05-15T13:04:59Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is being rocked by a graft scandal involving local and national policymakers, police officers and business leaders, with a special panel preparing to question the alleged mastermind.News of the scandal broke in February with the arrest of Carlos Augusto Ramos, aka Carlinhos Cachoeira (Charlie Waterfall), who is thought to run a gambling racket in Goias state. He is a familiar face in Brazilian politics. In 2004 he was at the centre of the Mensalao scandal that shook former President Lula's government and Workers' party (PT). Several officials were sacked but Cachoeira walked free.Now he is being prosecuted for corruption and money-laundering offences, charges he denies. What started as a relatively low-profile investigation has grown into a major event, now known as Cachoeiragate.Prosecutors have accumulated 40,000 pages of evidence and over 11,000 hours of phone taps. Cachoeira is allegedly the lynchpin of a scheme involving three senators, five MPs and four companies. More than 80 Cachoeira employees are thought to be involved. \"If you don't pay everyone, the system doesn't work,\" one of his henchmen reportedly let slip in a phone call.On 19 April Congress set up a special committee to investigate the matter. It has published a preliminary timetable for hearings, listing 167 summonses. The editor of the conservative magazine Veja is among the first on the list and Cachoeira is due to appear this week.After that it will be the turn of the reputedly incorruptible opposition senator Demostenes Torres, who is suspected of negotiating public works contracts in exchange for kickbacks. Investigators say they intercepted some 300 phone calls to Cachoeira. Torres also denies all charges.On 29 May attention will turn to Claudio Dias de Abreu. Currently in custody, a former head of operations for construction firm Delta allegedly negotiated deals directly with local politicians. The firm is doing renovation work for the 2014 football World Cup, and has contracts with both Rio de Janeiro and federal authorities.The government hailed the launch of the special committee, but President Dilma Rousseff may fear that the investigation will upset a busy political agenda and endanger a fragile ruling coalition.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil"], "title": "Brazil rocked by corruption scandal"},{"date": "2012-05-15T13:04:59Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is being rocked by a graft scandal involving local and national policymakers, police officers and business leaders, with a special panel preparing to question the alleged mastermind.News of the scandal broke in February with the arrest of Carlos Augusto Ramos, aka Carlinhos Cachoeira (Charlie Waterfall), who is thought to run a gambling racket in Goias state. He is a familiar face in Brazilian politics. In 2004 he was at the centre of the Mensalao scandal that shook former President Lula's government and Workers' party (PT). Several officials were sacked but Cachoeira walked free.Now he is being prosecuted for corruption and money-laundering offences, charges he denies. What started as a relatively low-profile investigation has grown into a major event, now known as Cachoeiragate.Prosecutors have accumulated 40,000 pages of evidence and over 11,000 hours of phone taps. Cachoeira is allegedly the lynchpin of a scheme involving three senators, five MPs and four companies. More than 80 Cachoeira employees are thought to be involved. \"If you don't pay everyone, the system doesn't work,\" one of his henchmen reportedly let slip in a phone call.On 19 April Congress set up a special committee to investigate the matter. It has published a preliminary timetable for hearings, listing 167 summonses. The editor of the conservative magazine Veja is among the first on the list and Cachoeira is due to appear this week.After that it will be the turn of the reputedly incorruptible opposition senator Demostenes Torres, who is suspected of negotiating public works contracts in exchange for kickbacks. Investigators say they intercepted some 300 phone calls to Cachoeira. Torres also denies all charges.On 29 May attention will turn to Claudio Dias de Abreu. Currently in custody, a former head of operations for construction firm Delta allegedly negotiated deals directly with local politicians. The firm is doing renovation work for the 2014 football World Cup, and has contracts with both Rio de Janeiro and federal authorities.The government hailed the launch of the special committee, but President Dilma Rousseff may fear that the investigation will upset a busy political agenda and endanger a fragile ruling coalition.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil"], "title": "Brazil rocked by corruption scandal"},{"date": "2012-06-15T09:21:56Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "To me, sustainable development means: how can I use all resources responsibly and rationally, reducing the economic, social and environmental impacts, both now and in the future?Over the past 20 years, I have seen many changes in Brazil. Our society is more aware of the environment, and many Brazilian corporations have adopted good practice in terms of sustainability. However, agro-business has advanced into Amazon regions with huge impacts on our ecosystem.One of the biggest transformations that has affected Brazil is the acceleration of immigration to the big cities, with huge impacts on urban infrastructure and violence. Today, civil society is more active in fighting for forest protection and other Brazilian ecosystems.Millions of Brazilians, with support from federal government programmes, have been lifted out of poverty. But the environmental impact has been enormous, with more cars circulating in the cities.My message for Rio+20 is that taking care of our planet is a collective responsibility that needs the involvement of individuals, civil society, business and government at all levels. Indifference and omission cannot be allowed, because we have responsibility for people today and to future generations.I think that Rio+20 will make a difference to my lifestyle and behaviour. I will have more awareness about global and local issues that I need to be involved with and be part of the solution.", "tags": ["Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Rio+20 Earth summit", "Global climate talks", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Rio+20: A voice from Brazil"},{"date": "2012-05-15T13:04:59Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is being rocked by a graft scandal involving local and national policymakers, police officers and business leaders, with a special panel preparing to question the alleged mastermind.News of the scandal broke in February with the arrest of Carlos Augusto Ramos, aka Carlinhos Cachoeira (Charlie Waterfall), who is thought to run a gambling racket in Goias state. He is a familiar face in Brazilian politics. In 2004 he was at the centre of the Mensalao scandal that shook former President Lula's government and Workers' party (PT). Several officials were sacked but Cachoeira walked free.Now he is being prosecuted for corruption and money-laundering offences, charges he denies. What started as a relatively low-profile investigation has grown into a major event, now known as Cachoeiragate.Prosecutors have accumulated 40,000 pages of evidence and over 11,000 hours of phone taps. Cachoeira is allegedly the lynchpin of a scheme involving three senators, five MPs and four companies. More than 80 Cachoeira employees are thought to be involved. \"If you don't pay everyone, the system doesn't work,\" one of his henchmen reportedly let slip in a phone call.On 19 April Congress set up a special committee to investigate the matter. It has published a preliminary timetable for hearings, listing 167 summonses. The editor of the conservative magazine Veja is among the first on the list and Cachoeira is due to appear this week.After that it will be the turn of the reputedly incorruptible opposition senator Demostenes Torres, who is suspected of negotiating public works contracts in exchange for kickbacks. Investigators say they intercepted some 300 phone calls to Cachoeira. Torres also denies all charges.On 29 May attention will turn to Claudio Dias de Abreu. Currently in custody, a former head of operations for construction firm Delta allegedly negotiated deals directly with local politicians. The firm is doing renovation work for the 2014 football World Cup, and has contracts with both Rio de Janeiro and federal authorities.The government hailed the launch of the special committee, but President Dilma Rousseff may fear that the investigation will upset a busy political agenda and endanger a fragile ruling coalition.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil"], "title": "Brazil rocked by corruption scandal"},{"date": "2012-06-15T09:21:56Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "To me, sustainable development means: how can I use all resources responsibly and rationally, reducing the economic, social and environmental impacts, both now and in the future?Over the past 20 years, I have seen many changes in Brazil. Our society is more aware of the environment, and many Brazilian corporations have adopted good practice in terms of sustainability. However, agro-business has advanced into Amazon regions with huge impacts on our ecosystem.One of the biggest transformations that has affected Brazil is the acceleration of immigration to the big cities, with huge impacts on urban infrastructure and violence. Today, civil society is more active in fighting for forest protection and other Brazilian ecosystems.Millions of Brazilians, with support from federal government programmes, have been lifted out of poverty. But the environmental impact has been enormous, with more cars circulating in the cities.My message for Rio+20 is that taking care of our planet is a collective responsibility that needs the involvement of individuals, civil society, business and government at all levels. Indifference and omission cannot be allowed, because we have responsibility for people today and to future generations.I think that Rio+20 will make a difference to my lifestyle and behaviour. I will have more awareness about global and local issues that I need to be involved with and be part of the solution.", "tags": ["Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Rio+20 Earth summit", "Global climate talks", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Rio+20: A voice from Brazil"},{"date": "2012-06-15T09:21:44Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Sustainable development should mean good development. Simple as that. But it has proven to be quite a challenging task to ensure development that is empowering and inclusive of those most marginalised \u2013 especially girls and boys, and women \u2013 and development that places all [on a] level playing field: those in the \"north\" and those in the \"south\", those with economic interest and those with life-saving interest, men and women, children and adults. The reality is that the complexities of political economy and vested interests are huge barriers to sustainable development. As is the growing rate of disasters, and its [attendant] consequences \u2013 being increasingly aggravated by climate change, environmental degradation, migration, population growth, urbanisation and the other perils of our modern times.But if we aim to ensure future generations have the skills, knowledge and resources to live in what is predicted to be a future of scarcity \u2013 scarcity of water, land, energy, food, jobs, housing \u2013 we need to empower them now and allow them to contribute to today's decisionmaking, which will affect them most in the future. Prioritising inter-generational justice would go a long way towards achieving sustainable development. And the right strategy to achieve this, one which meets the requirements of value for money, impact, sustainability, inclusion and all the development jargons you need, is that of supporting greater access to quality education for girls and boys living in the most vulnerable circumstances.At the 1992 Earth summit, I joined my classmates in singing We Are the World at a stage set up for civil society in the Aterro in Rio. Twenty years later, not only is the king of pop no longer with us, the call for action by then 12-year-old Severn Suzuki to the then global decisionmakers attending the Earth summit remains unmet. But on the other hand, we now have a much more aware world, where technology and access to information has led the greatest advances towards making us equal and interested in \"making a better world\" as carolled by Michael Jackson. And we now have a world where our self-imposed borders of north-south and rich-poor divides are being dismantled by the non-discriminatory nature of disasters and climate change, and Twitter and Facebook youth activism. These waves of change are pushing us to come together, and have at last challenged the powers-that-be to rethink the prevailing \"business as usual\" modus operando.Rio provides us with the opportunity to start laying the foundations for our post-2015 world, when both the millennium development goals and the Hyogo Framework for Action's due dates expire. So Rio 2012 should not make the same mistake as Rio 1992; [it should] make sure that, this time round, risk management becomes a central thread which will weave together all other priority areas to be agreed in numerous negotiations to come. Without risk management, we will never achieve sustainable development. [Risk management] should include managing disasters and climate risks, risks of conflict, economic shocks, food security and political crises. This can all be achieved through a resilience framework which tackles changing risks and uncertainties, enhances adaptive capacity, and addresses [the] root causes of vulnerability by promoting the active participation of children and women in decisionmaking and local action. Investing in knowledge and education \u2013 through formal and informal learning mechanisms \u2013 for girls and boys exposed to disaster and climate risks is the most cost-effective way for securing a more resilient and sustainable future.Despite all the negative press on Rio+20 being yet another UN-led jamboree in the appropriate carnival capital of the world, Rio will make a difference. This is the opportunity for us to pull forces together and call for change. Governments were never so much in need of suggestions and advice on how to navigate past the 2015 milepost; rather than give up, we should come together and help them map out the pathway to the future we, and future generations, want.", "tags": ["Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Rio+20 Earth summit", "Global climate talks", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Rio+20: A voice from Brazil"},{"date": "2012-05-15T13:04:59Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is being rocked by a graft scandal involving local and national policymakers, police officers and business leaders, with a special panel preparing to question the alleged mastermind.News of the scandal broke in February with the arrest of Carlos Augusto Ramos, aka Carlinhos Cachoeira (Charlie Waterfall), who is thought to run a gambling racket in Goias state. He is a familiar face in Brazilian politics. In 2004 he was at the centre of the Mensalao scandal that shook former President Lula's government and Workers' party (PT). Several officials were sacked but Cachoeira walked free.Now he is being prosecuted for corruption and money-laundering offences, charges he denies. What started as a relatively low-profile investigation has grown into a major event, now known as Cachoeiragate.Prosecutors have accumulated 40,000 pages of evidence and over 11,000 hours of phone taps. Cachoeira is allegedly the lynchpin of a scheme involving three senators, five MPs and four companies. More than 80 Cachoeira employees are thought to be involved. \"If you don't pay everyone, the system doesn't work,\" one of his henchmen reportedly let slip in a phone call.On 19 April Congress set up a special committee to investigate the matter. It has published a preliminary timetable for hearings, listing 167 summonses. The editor of the conservative magazine Veja is among the first on the list and Cachoeira is due to appear this week.After that it will be the turn of the reputedly incorruptible opposition senator Demostenes Torres, who is suspected of negotiating public works contracts in exchange for kickbacks. Investigators say they intercepted some 300 phone calls to Cachoeira. Torres also denies all charges.On 29 May attention will turn to Claudio Dias de Abreu. Currently in custody, a former head of operations for construction firm Delta allegedly negotiated deals directly with local politicians. The firm is doing renovation work for the 2014 football World Cup, and has contracts with both Rio de Janeiro and federal authorities.The government hailed the launch of the special committee, but President Dilma Rousseff may fear that the investigation will upset a busy political agenda and endanger a fragile ruling coalition.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil"], "title": "Brazil rocked by corruption scandal"},{"date": "2012-06-15T09:21:56Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "To me, sustainable development means: how can I use all resources responsibly and rationally, reducing the economic, social and environmental impacts, both now and in the future?Over the past 20 years, I have seen many changes in Brazil. Our society is more aware of the environment, and many Brazilian corporations have adopted good practice in terms of sustainability. However, agro-business has advanced into Amazon regions with huge impacts on our ecosystem.One of the biggest transformations that has affected Brazil is the acceleration of immigration to the big cities, with huge impacts on urban infrastructure and violence. Today, civil society is more active in fighting for forest protection and other Brazilian ecosystems.Millions of Brazilians, with support from federal government programmes, have been lifted out of poverty. But the environmental impact has been enormous, with more cars circulating in the cities.My message for Rio+20 is that taking care of our planet is a collective responsibility that needs the involvement of individuals, civil society, business and government at all levels. Indifference and omission cannot be allowed, because we have responsibility for people today and to future generations.I think that Rio+20 will make a difference to my lifestyle and behaviour. I will have more awareness about global and local issues that I need to be involved with and be part of the solution.", "tags": ["Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Rio+20 Earth summit", "Global climate talks", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Rio+20: A voice from Brazil"},{"date": "2012-06-15T09:21:44Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Sustainable development should mean good development. Simple as that. But it has proven to be quite a challenging task to ensure development that is empowering and inclusive of those most marginalised \u2013 especially girls and boys, and women \u2013 and development that places all [on a] level playing field: those in the \"north\" and those in the \"south\", those with economic interest and those with life-saving interest, men and women, children and adults. The reality is that the complexities of political economy and vested interests are huge barriers to sustainable development. As is the growing rate of disasters, and its [attendant] consequences \u2013 being increasingly aggravated by climate change, environmental degradation, migration, population growth, urbanisation and the other perils of our modern times.But if we aim to ensure future generations have the skills, knowledge and resources to live in what is predicted to be a future of scarcity \u2013 scarcity of water, land, energy, food, jobs, housing \u2013 we need to empower them now and allow them to contribute to today's decisionmaking, which will affect them most in the future. Prioritising inter-generational justice would go a long way towards achieving sustainable development. And the right strategy to achieve this, one which meets the requirements of value for money, impact, sustainability, inclusion and all the development jargons you need, is that of supporting greater access to quality education for girls and boys living in the most vulnerable circumstances.At the 1992 Earth summit, I joined my classmates in singing We Are the World at a stage set up for civil society in the Aterro in Rio. Twenty years later, not only is the king of pop no longer with us, the call for action by then 12-year-old Severn Suzuki to the then global decisionmakers attending the Earth summit remains unmet. But on the other hand, we now have a much more aware world, where technology and access to information has led the greatest advances towards making us equal and interested in \"making a better world\" as carolled by Michael Jackson. And we now have a world where our self-imposed borders of north-south and rich-poor divides are being dismantled by the non-discriminatory nature of disasters and climate change, and Twitter and Facebook youth activism. These waves of change are pushing us to come together, and have at last challenged the powers-that-be to rethink the prevailing \"business as usual\" modus operando.Rio provides us with the opportunity to start laying the foundations for our post-2015 world, when both the millennium development goals and the Hyogo Framework for Action's due dates expire. So Rio 2012 should not make the same mistake as Rio 1992; [it should] make sure that, this time round, risk management becomes a central thread which will weave together all other priority areas to be agreed in numerous negotiations to come. Without risk management, we will never achieve sustainable development. [Risk management] should include managing disasters and climate risks, risks of conflict, economic shocks, food security and political crises. This can all be achieved through a resilience framework which tackles changing risks and uncertainties, enhances adaptive capacity, and addresses [the] root causes of vulnerability by promoting the active participation of children and women in decisionmaking and local action. Investing in knowledge and education \u2013 through formal and informal learning mechanisms \u2013 for girls and boys exposed to disaster and climate risks is the most cost-effective way for securing a more resilient and sustainable future.Despite all the negative press on Rio+20 being yet another UN-led jamboree in the appropriate carnival capital of the world, Rio will make a difference. This is the opportunity for us to pull forces together and call for change. Governments were never so much in need of suggestions and advice on how to navigate past the 2015 milepost; rather than give up, we should come together and help them map out the pathway to the future we, and future generations, want.", "tags": ["Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Rio+20 Earth summit", "Global climate talks", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Rio+20: A voice from Brazil"},{"date": "2012-06-15T09:21:33Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian government and society have achieved important and substantial steps to fight poverty. Thirty million people have left poverty in Brazil, due to a combination of increased minimum wage, cash transfers, and other social policies and job generation. This successful combination of policies was a result of the Brazilian civil society capacity to develop and campaign for an agenda for poverty eradication and the new political willingness in the past 10 years. We are proud of such achievement, and yet alert for new challenges that may compromise it.On the one hand, the economic growth generates new jobs but, on the other, it may also generate new exclusions. Mega infrastructure investments carry the risk of evicting traditional populations, or threaten their livelihoods and damage the environment. The emphasis in sectors such as ethanol production from sugar cane also brings new challenges. The unregulated expansion of sugar cane plantations tends to concentrate land ownership in the hands of a few companies and/or landlords, to the exclusion of smallholder communities. It also increases the environmental impact of the plantation model, with its consequences on soil erosion, water contamination by pesticides and synthetic fertilisers, and loss of biodiversity.Rio+20 is a great opportunity to achieve political commitment to make poverty eradication a global priority. The recent Brazilian successes demonstrate that this is possible! However, the conference must be bold enough to go beyond empty rhetoric and address the structural causes that prevent poor countries effectively fighting poverty, such as external debt, unfair trade rules and global biofuel mandates.There is a need for stronger commitments on sustainability, in which governments agree to effectively forbid practices that harm the environment and take concrete steps to mitigate carbon emissions and fund the adaptation to climate change.", "tags": ["Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Rio+20 Earth summit", "Global climate talks", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Rio+20: A voice from Brazil"},{"date": "2012-05-15T13:04:59Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is being rocked by a graft scandal involving local and national policymakers, police officers and business leaders, with a special panel preparing to question the alleged mastermind.News of the scandal broke in February with the arrest of Carlos Augusto Ramos, aka Carlinhos Cachoeira (Charlie Waterfall), who is thought to run a gambling racket in Goias state. He is a familiar face in Brazilian politics. In 2004 he was at the centre of the Mensalao scandal that shook former President Lula's government and Workers' party (PT). Several officials were sacked but Cachoeira walked free.Now he is being prosecuted for corruption and money-laundering offences, charges he denies. What started as a relatively low-profile investigation has grown into a major event, now known as Cachoeiragate.Prosecutors have accumulated 40,000 pages of evidence and over 11,000 hours of phone taps. Cachoeira is allegedly the lynchpin of a scheme involving three senators, five MPs and four companies. More than 80 Cachoeira employees are thought to be involved. \"If you don't pay everyone, the system doesn't work,\" one of his henchmen reportedly let slip in a phone call.On 19 April Congress set up a special committee to investigate the matter. It has published a preliminary timetable for hearings, listing 167 summonses. The editor of the conservative magazine Veja is among the first on the list and Cachoeira is due to appear this week.After that it will be the turn of the reputedly incorruptible opposition senator Demostenes Torres, who is suspected of negotiating public works contracts in exchange for kickbacks. Investigators say they intercepted some 300 phone calls to Cachoeira. Torres also denies all charges.On 29 May attention will turn to Claudio Dias de Abreu. Currently in custody, a former head of operations for construction firm Delta allegedly negotiated deals directly with local politicians. The firm is doing renovation work for the 2014 football World Cup, and has contracts with both Rio de Janeiro and federal authorities.The government hailed the launch of the special committee, but President Dilma Rousseff may fear that the investigation will upset a busy political agenda and endanger a fragile ruling coalition.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Brazil"], "title": "Brazil rocked by corruption scandal"},{"date": "2012-06-15T09:21:56Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "To me, sustainable development means: how can I use all resources responsibly and rationally, reducing the economic, social and environmental impacts, both now and in the future?Over the past 20 years, I have seen many changes in Brazil. Our society is more aware of the environment, and many Brazilian corporations have adopted good practice in terms of sustainability. However, agro-business has advanced into Amazon regions with huge impacts on our ecosystem.One of the biggest transformations that has affected Brazil is the acceleration of immigration to the big cities, with huge impacts on urban infrastructure and violence. Today, civil society is more active in fighting for forest protection and other Brazilian ecosystems.Millions of Brazilians, with support from federal government programmes, have been lifted out of poverty. But the environmental impact has been enormous, with more cars circulating in the cities.My message for Rio+20 is that taking care of our planet is a collective responsibility that needs the involvement of individuals, civil society, business and government at all levels. Indifference and omission cannot be allowed, because we have responsibility for people today and to future generations.I think that Rio+20 will make a difference to my lifestyle and behaviour. I will have more awareness about global and local issues that I need to be involved with and be part of the solution.", "tags": ["Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Rio+20 Earth summit", "Global climate talks", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Rio+20: A voice from Brazil"},{"date": "2012-06-15T09:21:44Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Sustainable development should mean good development. Simple as that. But it has proven to be quite a challenging task to ensure development that is empowering and inclusive of those most marginalised \u2013 especially girls and boys, and women \u2013 and development that places all [on a] level playing field: those in the \"north\" and those in the \"south\", those with economic interest and those with life-saving interest, men and women, children and adults. The reality is that the complexities of political economy and vested interests are huge barriers to sustainable development. As is the growing rate of disasters, and its [attendant] consequences \u2013 being increasingly aggravated by climate change, environmental degradation, migration, population growth, urbanisation and the other perils of our modern times.But if we aim to ensure future generations have the skills, knowledge and resources to live in what is predicted to be a future of scarcity \u2013 scarcity of water, land, energy, food, jobs, housing \u2013 we need to empower them now and allow them to contribute to today's decisionmaking, which will affect them most in the future. Prioritising inter-generational justice would go a long way towards achieving sustainable development. And the right strategy to achieve this, one which meets the requirements of value for money, impact, sustainability, inclusion and all the development jargons you need, is that of supporting greater access to quality education for girls and boys living in the most vulnerable circumstances.At the 1992 Earth summit, I joined my classmates in singing We Are the World at a stage set up for civil society in the Aterro in Rio. Twenty years later, not only is the king of pop no longer with us, the call for action by then 12-year-old Severn Suzuki to the then global decisionmakers attending the Earth summit remains unmet. But on the other hand, we now have a much more aware world, where technology and access to information has led the greatest advances towards making us equal and interested in \"making a better world\" as carolled by Michael Jackson. And we now have a world where our self-imposed borders of north-south and rich-poor divides are being dismantled by the non-discriminatory nature of disasters and climate change, and Twitter and Facebook youth activism. These waves of change are pushing us to come together, and have at last challenged the powers-that-be to rethink the prevailing \"business as usual\" modus operando.Rio provides us with the opportunity to start laying the foundations for our post-2015 world, when both the millennium development goals and the Hyogo Framework for Action's due dates expire. So Rio 2012 should not make the same mistake as Rio 1992; [it should] make sure that, this time round, risk management becomes a central thread which will weave together all other priority areas to be agreed in numerous negotiations to come. Without risk management, we will never achieve sustainable development. [Risk management] should include managing disasters and climate risks, risks of conflict, economic shocks, food security and political crises. This can all be achieved through a resilience framework which tackles changing risks and uncertainties, enhances adaptive capacity, and addresses [the] root causes of vulnerability by promoting the active participation of children and women in decisionmaking and local action. Investing in knowledge and education \u2013 through formal and informal learning mechanisms \u2013 for girls and boys exposed to disaster and climate risks is the most cost-effective way for securing a more resilient and sustainable future.Despite all the negative press on Rio+20 being yet another UN-led jamboree in the appropriate carnival capital of the world, Rio will make a difference. This is the opportunity for us to pull forces together and call for change. Governments were never so much in need of suggestions and advice on how to navigate past the 2015 milepost; rather than give up, we should come together and help them map out the pathway to the future we, and future generations, want.", "tags": ["Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Rio+20 Earth summit", "Global climate talks", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Rio+20: A voice from Brazil"},{"date": "2012-06-15T09:21:33Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian government and society have achieved important and substantial steps to fight poverty. Thirty million people have left poverty in Brazil, due to a combination of increased minimum wage, cash transfers, and other social policies and job generation. This successful combination of policies was a result of the Brazilian civil society capacity to develop and campaign for an agenda for poverty eradication and the new political willingness in the past 10 years. We are proud of such achievement, and yet alert for new challenges that may compromise it.On the one hand, the economic growth generates new jobs but, on the other, it may also generate new exclusions. Mega infrastructure investments carry the risk of evicting traditional populations, or threaten their livelihoods and damage the environment. The emphasis in sectors such as ethanol production from sugar cane also brings new challenges. The unregulated expansion of sugar cane plantations tends to concentrate land ownership in the hands of a few companies and/or landlords, to the exclusion of smallholder communities. It also increases the environmental impact of the plantation model, with its consequences on soil erosion, water contamination by pesticides and synthetic fertilisers, and loss of biodiversity.Rio+20 is a great opportunity to achieve political commitment to make poverty eradication a global priority. The recent Brazilian successes demonstrate that this is possible! However, the conference must be bold enough to go beyond empty rhetoric and address the structural causes that prevent poor countries effectively fighting poverty, such as external debt, unfair trade rules and global biofuel mandates.There is a need for stronger commitments on sustainability, in which governments agree to effectively forbid practices that harm the environment and take concrete steps to mitigate carbon emissions and fund the adaptation to climate change.", "tags": ["Environmental sustainability", "Global development", "Rio+20 Earth summit", "Global climate talks", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Rio+20: A voice from Brazil"},{"date": "2012-06-10T21:18:59Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil, which hosts the Earth summit this month and a World Cup and an Olympics in the next four years, has been enjoying something for which you would look for in vain across much of the world: sustained leadership. First came Cardoso, the sociologist-statesman who brought the economy under control. Next was Lula, the best reincarnation yet of Franklin Roosevelt. Emerging from his shadow as a pragmatic reformer with edge is the current president, Dilma Rousseff.Brazil rose with China, feeding it soybeans and iron ore, and now has a larger total GDP than the UK. Lula likened himself to a street peddler, hawking commodities everywhere; Ms Rousseff's challenge is to unlock productivity and establish a more advanced economy. Since Brazilians are already much richer than the Chinese or Indians, it would be hard to approach their growth rates, but there is a possibility of massive investment in infrastructure and, most important, education. Ms Rousseff will need to transfer her popularity and managerial skill into a command of congress to set the pace.Though leading the world in inequality, Brazil also leads in effectively addressing it. Its justly famous social programmes, an advert for activist government, have helped lift 20 million people out of poverty and create an internal market. Long receiving economic lectures of mixed quality, Brasilia has no wish to start giving them, but watches with apprehension European attempts to reduce debt in the absence of growth. All this has given Brazil the credibility to assume its long-coveted role as a global power.Particularly under Ms Rousseff and her foreign minister, Antonio Patriota, it has assumed a distinctive mixture of restraint and independence in the exercise of that power. Brasilia has not only doubled its diplomats in the last decade, it has redoubled its emphasis on diplomacy as the only way to \"benign multipolarity\". Partly this is the luxury of a peaceful neighbourhood (which it must still persuade of the advantages and magnanimity of its leadership). But it also reflects long diplomatic tradition and experience of the nature of sovereignty and democratisation. As it accrues power and responsibility, it will no longer be able to be everyone's friend and will feel the tension between sovereignty and human rights more keenly, but it aspires to be a bridge between powers and will sometimes be a corrective to western selectivity and hypocrisy.Not only should Brazil have a permanent seat on the security council, it is the best argument for security council reform and other attempts to make the international system more representative. It's time for the west, and the rest, to embrace Brazil's rise more actively and begin a more profound engagement.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "China", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva"], "title": "Brazil: a Bric to build with | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-07-18T09:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "In the thick forest of the great Amazonian river system near the city of Bel\u00e9m in northern Brazil, 72-year-old Ladir raises a long knife and deftly slices through the thick casing of a pod of castanhas-do-par\u00e1; the same long blade gently shaves off the inner shell of a seed within. The nut he offers is familiar - moist, buttery, but with an unexpected hint of coconut - and completely delicious. Having tried it, I'm spoiled forever: the brazil nuts we know do not taste as they do straight from the tree. Ladir leads us (he striding barefoot, we with more tentative steps) between mahogany and par\u00e1 trees, over flesh-eating ants and through clearings made to ward against snakes, to his plantation, where he disappears 50 feet up one of his a\u00e7a\u00ed palm trees to harvest a weighty branch of berries.The fruit is much used in Brazilian cooking: liberally in sauces to accompany fried fish, as simple desserts mixed with sugar and tapioca, in smoothies at a thousand sidestreet fruit bars and in palettes of sorbets at Alex Atala's D.O.M. (recently voted the world's fourth best restaurant). It has powered to north America and over the Atlantic, acquiring dubious \"superfood\" status on the way and spawning thousands of scams as a diet aid. It's an odd, hard little berry that needs to be softened in warm water, was traditionally eaten in the morning by indigenous tribes for energy and is said to taste of the forest. I find it chalky and underwhelming. Across the Guam\u00e1 river, back among the bustle of Bel\u00e9m, Maria do Carmo sells spicy tacac\u00e1 soup in cuia gourd bowls on Avenida Nazare. The broth is big flavoured and unlike anything I've ever tried: at first tangy and sour, rich with shrimp and heat from pimenta-de-cheiro, then slowly building into a strange but not unpleasant tingle that numbs the mouth. This is courtesy of leaves from jamb\u00fa, a flowering herb that's known as the toothache plant. The body of the soup is tucupi, a broth extracted from the manioc root (ubiquitous in Brazil as potatoes are here) and thickened with tapioca gum. Maria's been making it every day for 40 years and has one of the most popular stalls here, thanks, she says, to quality ingredients. She certainly seems to be keeping Anthony Bourdain happy. For me, this fantastic broth is the perfect expression of time and place - I can't imagine it tasting as good anywhere but on the steamy streets of Bel\u00e9m at sunset.Back down south, in sprawling S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil's largest and most ethnically diverse city, there's as wide ranging a cuisine as you'd expect. Nowadays, alongside great sushi and Italian food on every street corner courtesy of the largest Japanese population outside Japan and some 15 million Italian residents, Brazilian restaurants are flourishing. The city is not far from Minas Gerais, one of the meatier states in a meaty country, and it's no surprise to find southern style churrascaria, where waiters work rod\u00edzio-style, relentlessly carving skewers of charcoal-roasted steak at the table until you wonder if you'll ever need to eat again. More interesting, though, is the growing number of chefs taking a serious approach to cuisine from different Brazilian regions. In all likelihood many of them have been inspired by their fellow paulistano Atala who catapulted Brazilian cooking on to the world stage some years back at D.O.M. by combining European techniques with traditional dishes and native and imported ingredients. Take heart of palm, a vegetable that shouts of its tropical environment (Atala uses farmed): he roasts it until it's rich and yielding and introduces the Cantabrian sea in the form of fat salty anchovies. Never was a meeting such pleasure; the memory of that particular dish made the 10,000km journey home with me.Some distance from the swanky streets around D.O.M., in the decidedly more down-to-earth district of Villa Medeiros, we find Rodrigo Oliveira in the experimental kitchen above his restaurant, Mocot\u00f3, musing over Andrew Whitley's Bread Matters, a book that came out of a village bakery in Cumbria. He's a serious, thoughtful young man: \"I'm really interested in bread,\" he tells me earnestly, discussing the importance of terroir, and the cooking of his family home in the sert\u00e3o, the backwoods of northeastern Brazil. While he innovates upstairs, conceiving dishes for a first book, they're serving traditional north-eastern dishes at the tables below, where specialities include caldo de mocot\u00f3 (calf's foot soup) and mocofava, a creamy bone marrow soup with butter beans. Those dishes, and the jovial atmosphere, are the reason Mocot\u00f3 is rammed every day despite being way up in the north of the city. You can't book but the hours waiting for tables fly when you're stood by the noisy bar choosing the day's best fruit for your caipirinha and snacking on cassava chips or torresmos with orange and lime wedges to squeeze over the crispy pork fat.It's impossible to overstate the love that Brazilians have for their bar snacks. S\u00e3o Paulo is the latest city in the country to take up the Comida di Boteco, an annual competition devoted to the simple joys of bar food. Small bars, or botecos the city over put up their finest torresmos, empadas, coxinha and other dishes for the public to score alongside service and (importantly) beer temperature. It's all great fun but with over two million people participating and the extra income and employment generated, comida di boteco is a serious business. The competition was launched back in 2000 in Belo Horizonte, Brazil's bar capital, by local radio personality and boteco enthusiast Eduardo Maya and has now spread to 16 cities across the country. Nowadays you're practically performing a civic duty trawling from bar to bar eating fatty pork and drinking ice cold beer.We roll up at competing boteco Na\u00e7\u00e3o Nordestina on the city's outskirts: waiters bring big bowls of cupim atolado, a stew of manioc, pepper, and beef slow cooked in manteiga de garrafa, a type of clarified butter that comes in a bottle and tastes like liquid toffee. I only just manage to stop myself grabbing the communal jug and pouring it down my throat.As well as celebrating the boteco culture, the competition champions local producers, challenging contestants to cook with native ingredients. Queijo Minas, made by thousands of small scale cheesemakers across Minas Gerais was Belo Horizonte's chosen product and at Patorroco, owner Marcos Machado brings out his winning dish with its take on Arabian cheese, chancliche. The competition clearly encourages creativity, and it's cheering to see how seriously the food is taken, by owners like Machado, as well as the locals opining on his efforts. The boteco is still at the heart of its community across Brazil - something Britain's struggling publicans could only dream of.Machado says his search for inspiration for this year's menu will involve leaving the country. Looking outwards is never a bad thing, but given the astonishing diversity of ingredients at his disposal in Brazil - the goliath filhote lurking in the Amazon river, the dizzying array of fruit, the magic jamb\u00fa - he'd better not stray too far.\u2022 The author's trip was hosted by the Brazilian Tourist Board\u2022 This article was amended on 3 August 2012 to correct the name of the chef Rodrigo Oliveira from Rodrigo de Almeida. It was further amended on 6 August 2012 to remove irrelevant information about the construction of Spanish surnames from this footnote.", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style", "Food and drink", "Brazil holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Brazil: nuts about food"},{"date": "2012-07-18T09:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "In the thick forest of the great Amazonian river system near the city of Bel\u00e9m in northern Brazil, 72-year-old Ladir raises a long knife and deftly slices through the thick casing of a pod of castanhas-do-par\u00e1; the same long blade gently shaves off the inner shell of a seed within. The nut he offers is familiar - moist, buttery, but with an unexpected hint of coconut - and completely delicious. Having tried it, I'm spoiled forever: the brazil nuts we know do not taste as they do straight from the tree. Ladir leads us (he striding barefoot, we with more tentative steps) between mahogany and par\u00e1 trees, over flesh-eating ants and through clearings made to ward against snakes, to his plantation, where he disappears 50 feet up one of his a\u00e7a\u00ed palm trees to harvest a weighty branch of berries.The fruit is much used in Brazilian cooking: liberally in sauces to accompany fried fish, as simple desserts mixed with sugar and tapioca, in smoothies at a thousand sidestreet fruit bars and in palettes of sorbets at Alex Atala's D.O.M. (recently voted the world's fourth best restaurant). It has powered to north America and over the Atlantic, acquiring dubious \"superfood\" status on the way and spawning thousands of scams as a diet aid. It's an odd, hard little berry that needs to be softened in warm water, was traditionally eaten in the morning by indigenous tribes for energy and is said to taste of the forest. I find it chalky and underwhelming. Across the Guam\u00e1 river, back among the bustle of Bel\u00e9m, Maria do Carmo sells spicy tacac\u00e1 soup in cuia gourd bowls on Avenida Nazare. The broth is big flavoured and unlike anything I've ever tried: at first tangy and sour, rich with shrimp and heat from pimenta-de-cheiro, then slowly building into a strange but not unpleasant tingle that numbs the mouth. This is courtesy of leaves from jamb\u00fa, a flowering herb that's known as the toothache plant. The body of the soup is tucupi, a broth extracted from the manioc root (ubiquitous in Brazil as potatoes are here) and thickened with tapioca gum. Maria's been making it every day for 40 years and has one of the most popular stalls here, thanks, she says, to quality ingredients. She certainly seems to be keeping Anthony Bourdain happy. For me, this fantastic broth is the perfect expression of time and place - I can't imagine it tasting as good anywhere but on the steamy streets of Bel\u00e9m at sunset.Back down south, in sprawling S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil's largest and most ethnically diverse city, there's as wide ranging a cuisine as you'd expect. Nowadays, alongside great sushi and Italian food on every street corner courtesy of the largest Japanese population outside Japan and some 15 million Italian residents, Brazilian restaurants are flourishing. The city is not far from Minas Gerais, one of the meatier states in a meaty country, and it's no surprise to find southern style churrascaria, where waiters work rod\u00edzio-style, relentlessly carving skewers of charcoal-roasted steak at the table until you wonder if you'll ever need to eat again. More interesting, though, is the growing number of chefs taking a serious approach to cuisine from different Brazilian regions. In all likelihood many of them have been inspired by their fellow paulistano Atala who catapulted Brazilian cooking on to the world stage some years back at D.O.M. by combining European techniques with traditional dishes and native and imported ingredients. Take heart of palm, a vegetable that shouts of its tropical environment (Atala uses farmed): he roasts it until it's rich and yielding and introduces the Cantabrian sea in the form of fat salty anchovies. Never was a meeting such pleasure; the memory of that particular dish made the 10,000km journey home with me.Some distance from the swanky streets around D.O.M., in the decidedly more down-to-earth district of Villa Medeiros, we find Rodrigo Oliveira in the experimental kitchen above his restaurant, Mocot\u00f3, musing over Andrew Whitley's Bread Matters, a book that came out of a village bakery in Cumbria. He's a serious, thoughtful young man: \"I'm really interested in bread,\" he tells me earnestly, discussing the importance of terroir, and the cooking of his family home in the sert\u00e3o, the backwoods of northeastern Brazil. While he innovates upstairs, conceiving dishes for a first book, they're serving traditional north-eastern dishes at the tables below, where specialities include caldo de mocot\u00f3 (calf's foot soup) and mocofava, a creamy bone marrow soup with butter beans. Those dishes, and the jovial atmosphere, are the reason Mocot\u00f3 is rammed every day despite being way up in the north of the city. You can't book but the hours waiting for tables fly when you're stood by the noisy bar choosing the day's best fruit for your caipirinha and snacking on cassava chips or torresmos with orange and lime wedges to squeeze over the crispy pork fat.It's impossible to overstate the love that Brazilians have for their bar snacks. S\u00e3o Paulo is the latest city in the country to take up the Comida di Boteco, an annual competition devoted to the simple joys of bar food. Small bars, or botecos the city over put up their finest torresmos, empadas, coxinha and other dishes for the public to score alongside service and (importantly) beer temperature. It's all great fun but with over two million people participating and the extra income and employment generated, comida di boteco is a serious business. The competition was launched back in 2000 in Belo Horizonte, Brazil's bar capital, by local radio personality and boteco enthusiast Eduardo Maya and has now spread to 16 cities across the country. Nowadays you're practically performing a civic duty trawling from bar to bar eating fatty pork and drinking ice cold beer.We roll up at competing boteco Na\u00e7\u00e3o Nordestina on the city's outskirts: waiters bring big bowls of cupim atolado, a stew of manioc, pepper, and beef slow cooked in manteiga de garrafa, a type of clarified butter that comes in a bottle and tastes like liquid toffee. I only just manage to stop myself grabbing the communal jug and pouring it down my throat.As well as celebrating the boteco culture, the competition champions local producers, challenging contestants to cook with native ingredients. Queijo Minas, made by thousands of small scale cheesemakers across Minas Gerais was Belo Horizonte's chosen product and at Patorroco, owner Marcos Machado brings out his winning dish with its take on Arabian cheese, chancliche. The competition clearly encourages creativity, and it's cheering to see how seriously the food is taken, by owners like Machado, as well as the locals opining on his efforts. The boteco is still at the heart of its community across Brazil - something Britain's struggling publicans could only dream of.Machado says his search for inspiration for this year's menu will involve leaving the country. Looking outwards is never a bad thing, but given the astonishing diversity of ingredients at his disposal in Brazil - the goliath filhote lurking in the Amazon river, the dizzying array of fruit, the magic jamb\u00fa - he'd better not stray too far.\u2022 The author's trip was hosted by the Brazilian Tourist Board\u2022 This article was amended on 3 August 2012 to correct the name of the chef Rodrigo Oliveira from Rodrigo de Almeida. It was further amended on 6 August 2012 to remove irrelevant information about the construction of Spanish surnames from this footnote.", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style", "Food and drink", "Brazil holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Brazil: nuts about food"},{"date": "2012-09-04T15:22:40Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "At Anglo American, our impact on the communities in which we operate is fundamental to our sustainability strategy. If we are to grow and flourish, these communities must grow and flourish too. Osiani Ephina is an embodiment of this vision.Osiani works in community relations with our iron ore mining operations in Amap\u00e1, a remote region in the north of Brazil. The population in the area has nearly doubled to over 11,000 since our arrival in 2007. During this time, Osiani has set up a diverse range of social projects and initiatives to support the community and make sure our impact in the area is a positive one.The growing community in Amap\u00e1 faces a range of challenges particularly around sexual health, education and economic self-sufficiency. Working closely with the community, Osiani designs and directs investment into initiatives that meet these specific needs and change people's lives.Her projects, Conjunto da Obra, vary from health initiatives that give local hospitals the funding they need to invest in vital medicine and equipment, to educational projects to improve literacy and increase access to the internet. Other projects have included providing people with the knowledge and skills they need to improve their income: for example, through sewing, farming or business entrepreneurship.Osiani's work has had a huge impact on the lives of people in the area. In 2010, Amap\u00e1 received a socio-economic assessment toolbox (SEAT) score of 3.2 for social performance, up from 1.6 in 2007. This score represents the fastest increase in social performance of all of Anglo American's business units worldwide.Copy on this page is provided by Anglo American, sponsor of the social impact hub", "tags": ["anglo american partner zone", "Guardian sustainable business"], "title": "Living our values in Brazil: Osiani's story"},{"date": "2012-10-19T21:44:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "For a long time I thought of Brazil as a state of mind. A fantasy of sun, sea, samba and lots of other words beginning with \"s\". I partly blame Terry Gilliam, for in Brazil, his 1985 film, he uses the lilting samba beat of the eponymous song (known as Aquarela do Brasil in its native land) to accompany the final crushing of his hero by the mad, dysfunctional world around him. The song represents pure unproductive pleasure. Brazil as the ultimate escapist image.The Latin American mind-set is one with which we north Europeans can't easily identify. China we can relate to because it's single-minded and industrious; India and the sub-continent is crazy and colourful and quite a bit English. Russia is dark and impenetrable but good at putting up with things, which we admire. The Brazilians on the other hand don't have to put up with anything. They have everything. Spicy seafood stews, fruits of the forest and luscious caipirinhas. Swaying music, sensual dancers and perfect bodies, wrapped in balmy warmth and enveloped in rapturous sex. As they say, what's not to like. Even as we read about drug gangs and watch violent films such as City of God, we give Brazil the benefit of the doubt. Bound to be some bad 'uns in a country that plays such beautiful football.So, for me, Brazil's mystique grew, hot and steamy and lush as the jungles that I assumed to cover most of the country. Even its location seemed a touch other-worldly. Most of it in the southern hemisphere and not exactly on the way to anywhere, except possibly Peru or Paraguay. My early attempts to learn more about it only strengthened the mythology. Brazil's northern border was the setting of Conan Doyle's Lost World. The explorer Colonel Percy Fawcett who went deep into the rainforest to discover El Dorado, was never seen again. Peter Fleming, who went to find him, got lost too and just got out of the jungle alive. (Brazilian Adventure, Fleming's first book, is nevertheless, one of the funniest books about nearly dying.)For whatever reason, despite having been to many countries these past 24 years, I'd been keeping Brazil at arm's length. Was it that I didn't want my fantasies to be destroyed? Could it have been that, little Protestant that I am, I was fearful of having too good a time? Of having all those layers of reserve, privacy, caution, discretion and self-doubt corroded by tropical hedonism?Three things helped to convince me that there was no good reason for not going to Brazil. In 2001 Jim O'Neill, an alumnus of Sheffield University no less, and now chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, coined the acronym Bric for what he saw as the global super players of the future. Russia, India and China we might have expected to be included, but Brazil, the \"B\", really caught the eye. Less than 10 years previously, Brazil was suffering 2,700% inflation. Now we were being told by a highly respected economist that the sun was shining out of its backside. Suddenly the exotic paradise sounded a lot more like the rest of the world. Only more successful.Then, in 2007, as I was completing a travel series called New Europe, which I fully intended to be my last, Brazil was chosen to host the 2014 World Cup. Two years after that Rio de Janeiro pipped Madrid, Tokyo and Chicago to win the 2016 Olympics. By now I knew there was another journey to be done. I had to expunge the fantasy and check out the reality of the country everyone would soon be talking about.The fifth-biggest country in the world by land area, Brazil is roughly 3,000 miles from north to south and from east to west. Despite its extent, most of its 205 million people live in towns and cities on or within 100 miles of the coast. The vast and fertile interior comprises millions of hectares of farming land as well as the biggest rainforest and the biggest river system in the world \u2013 the Amazon pours into the Atlantic at the rate of 57 million gallons a second. To travel there means to somehow deal with this imbalance between the thin sliver of human Brazil and the gigantic natural splendours surrounding it.For the series, I split the country into four episodes: the north-east, the Amazon and Brasilia, Rio and the important mining state of Minas Gerais, and S\u00e3o Paulo and the south.The north-east coast is where the first Europeans set foot, by accident, in 1500. Here the production of coffee and sugar and cotton became so successful that it created a plantation system which eventually required some seven million African slaves to work it. This coast, from just south of the mouth of the Amazon to the state of Bahia, is steeped in African influence, in religion, music, food, dress and style.S\u00e3o Lu\u00eds's old town is slowly benefiting from a big restoration scheme. In those streets that have been made over there are shops, bars, internet cafes and restaurants. Calhau Praia is as clean, comfortable, walkable a stretch of sand as I've come across. And it's apparently endless. Around 200 miles south-east of S\u00e3o Lu\u00eds is the Len\u00e7\u00f3is Maranhenses national park. Here is sand in its most majestic state. Dunes up to 50m high spread and billow over roughly 620 square miles. After the rainy season, in March, April and May, up to a thousand lagoons appear among the dunes.Olinda, over 620 miles down the coast from S\u00e3o Lu\u00eds, is a colonial town of some beauty, stretching up and over the hills. It still resonates with style and affluence, with many churches, including the church and convent of St Francis, the oldest convent in Brazil. The Alta da S\u00e9 cathedral has a breathtaking view over the city and across the water to the skyline of Recife.Recife has become the scene of new and adventurous cultural work, especially in music. We lunched at the Pernambuco Yacht Club, out by the sea wall. The food is glorious: caldinho de peixe (fish soup), a moqueca of fresh shrimp, red mullet and beans, caju juice.Further south is Salvador, capital of the state of Bahia and the biggest African city outside Africa. It overlooks All Saints' Bay, believed to be the second-largest natural harbour in the world after Hudson Bay. The Pelourinho (literally the pillory) is the centre of the old town, where breathtaking architectural beauty sits side by side with corrosive poverty and decay. A non-stop music track animates and deafens, and a life ethic rather than a work ethic dominates.Amazonia is another distinctive and clearly defined geographical and economic unit. Apart from investigating a river system that is estimated to contain over 20% of all the freshwater in the world, it offered the chance to visit some of the indigenous tribes who had lived in the rainforest long before Brazil ever became Brazil.In the wide, lake-like waters of the Rio Negro I swam with pink Amazon dolphins. They bounced off my body and came back for more sardines.Anyone who visits Amazonia must at some point pass through its biggest city, Manaus. The internationally renowned opera house, Teatro Amazonas, is an ornate jewel in a rough and ready city.The city of Bel\u00e9m stands at the southern portal of the Amazon delta and is home to the vast waterside Ver-o-peso market, selling fish, fruits and handicrafts. Belem's offshore islands offer a tantalising glimpse of rural riverbank life. Santarem, the third and most intimate of the Amazon's big cities, has a museum with a rich collection of pre-European ceramics, some dating back 10,000 years.Fordlandia was Henry Ford's industrial dream town in the middle of the Amazon jungle. Now a ghost town, it was abandoned in the 1950s.The state of Minas Gerais, on a high plateau north of Rio, has been a heartland of national wealth for over 300 years, and iron ore excavations as deep as volcanic craters scar the countryside around Brazil's fourth city, Belo Horizonte. It has few memorable sights. One is the graceful rectangular Pra\u00e7a da Liberdade, ringed by an esoteric collection of good-looking buildings. I'm told that Lourdes is the hip new quarter for smart clubs and trendy restaurants, but I must have got the wrong time of day.The discovery of gold in the nearby mountains at the start of the 18th century transformed the balance of power from north to south Brazil and was the reason that Rio de Janeiro flourished.Cardeal Mota is a long, thin tourist town within the Serra de Cip\u00f3 national park north of Belo Horizonte. Brazil has no peaks higher than 3,000m and this corner of Minas is exceptional in having anything that looks like a real mountain range. It's a diverse and fragile ecosystem, with more than 2,000 species of plants.This left S\u00e3o Paulo and the south. The southern and south-eastern states cover less than 18% of Brazil's land area but contain 60% of the population. And they feel different. If the north-east is African Brazil, the south is European Brazil. If the Bahians work to relax, the Paulistas work to make money. S\u00e3o Paulo, the biggest city in the southern hemisphere, is also the richest. There are billionaires all over the place, moving around the vast thrombotic city in helicopters. Further south is a string of affluent, progressive cities like Curitiba, Florian\u00f3polis and Porto Alegre, where you can think yourself in Bilbao or Bristol or Antwerp.There's a feeling Curitiba is trying hard to be cool, though the Oscar Niemeyer Museum in the centre doesn't have to try. It just is. Around the museum is a park, one of many carefully laid out green spaces that dot the city, making Curitiba one of the world's greenest cities. Tourist trains run from Curitiba to the coast.Inland there are towns that have gone out of their way to preserve their European roots. Blumenau, in the state of Santa Catarina, is so proud of its German origins that the town's sign reads Wilkommen, and the council offices are in a six-storey Alpine chalet.You can find temporary refuge in a Brothers Grimm world of cobbled streets and tall brick-and-timber buildings. Steins of beer are available and accordion music chortles out. The big event of Blumenau's year is the Oktoberfest, the largest celebration of its kind outside of Munich. Nearby Pomerode, founded by Pomeranian Germans in 1861, is even more obsessed with its Teutonic heritage.Where Brazil finally rubs up against Argentina and Paraguay, the Igua\u00e7u Falls, one of the largest waterfall systems in the world was a spectacular climax to my trip.I can say now that Brazil is more than just a state of mind and yet, after a year steeped in the country, I still haven't completely figured it out. In many ways the Brazilian way of life seems to live up to all the cliches. It is seductive and easy-going. The sun shines on mile upon mile of sparkling clean ocean-washed beaches. Delicious fruits grow in Eden-like profusion. Brazilians of every age and shape exercise in tiny slips of clothing, caressed by sea breezes. Music and dancing is hard-wired into the system. Drinking seems to make them happy without tipping them over into aggression. They are tolerant and informal, and live very much in the present. Socrates \u2013 the footballer, not the philosopher \u2013 described his fellow countrymen as \"a shrewd, vain, happy people\".Yet Brazil is perceived by many outsiders as a dangerous place, where crime and corruption are high and there is every chance of being mugged as you walk the streets. These fears seem to be based on the image of the overpopulated favelas, some of which do have a fearsome reputation. In Rio, favelas accumulate on the hillsides overlooking Copacabana and Ipanema beaches, frightening people who live down below in some of the most expensive real estate in the country. Vik Muniz, one of Brazil's most celebrated artists, described it to me as \"Saint-Tropez surrounded by Mogadishu\".But most of Rio's million or so favelados have nothing to do with organised crime. They are mostly people who work in Rio and keep the city running. The rehabilitation of the favelas is showing good results, but will it come fast enough for a World Cup that is only two years away, with an Olympics hard on its heels ?Growing international stature could be the greatest threat to this happy situation. With Bric-led prosperity has come responsibility, not just for Brazilians themselves, but for a world looking desperately for strong economies to help the weak. A seat for Brazil on the UN Security Council is already being discussed.After four months travelling the country my impression is that people are a little apprehensive about the global status being so swiftly thrust upon them. They will now have to compare themselves with other countries in a way they've never bothered to do before. They will find themselves increasingly assessed and judged by outsiders.While I was there I made a not-altogether-serious list of English words and phrases that seemed to have no counterpart for Brazilians, such as \"introvert\", \"early\" and \"turn the music down\". One word at which they always shook their heads when I asked for a translation was \"self-conscious\".I hope that, with world recognition, the essential, infectious live-and-let-live attitude that I so enjoyed in Brazil will not have to be reined in. Or \"self-conscious\" be added to their dictionary.\u2022 Michael Palin's new four-part series on Brazil starts on BBC One on Wednesday 24 October at 9pmManaus is the major transport hub: flights from Rio and S\u00e3o Paulo take around four hours, and there are flights from other Brazilian cities. Try GOL (voegol.com), TAM (tam.com.br) and TRIP (voetrip.com.br). There are no trains through the jungle, or even buses to speak of. A boat takes around five days from Bel\u00e9m. Michael Palin stayed at the Ariau Amazon Towers (doubles from \u00a3295, ariautowers.com), a treetop hotel in the rainforest 35 miles northwest of Manaus. For cheaper options see visitmanaus.com.Minas Gerais state, north-west of Rio, offers peace and natural beauty. Serra do Cip\u00f3 national park is a good destination for outdoor pursuits. Visit from Belo Horizonte, 63 miles by road from access town Santana do Riacho. The gold rush towns of Ouro Preto, Diamantina and Tiradentes have churches, museums, and gorgeous pousadas (see hiddenpousadasbrazil.com). Brazil Ecotravel (brazil-ecotravel.com) offers a nine-day group tour here.Travellers who make it to the state of Santa Catarina, famous for its beaches, may also enjoy visiting the \"German\" towns of Blumenau and Pomerode, which have half-timbered houses, German food and beers, and a cycle or walking route, the Rota do Enxaimel, which takes in around 70 Germanic buildings. The Blumenau Oktoberfest (oktoberfestblumenau.com.br) typically attracts half a million visitors.The state capital is Florian\u00f3polis, built on an island and a stepping-off point for beach holidays, with bus connections to Curitiba and Porto Alegre, plus Rio, S\u00e3o Paulo and Igua\u00e7u, \u2013 a popular next stop. Hippy and surfer hangout Campeche is 30 minutes from \"Floripa\" by bus. On Ilha de Santa Catarina, Pousada dos Tucanos (pousadasitiodostucanos.com) has several suites, a luscious garden, organic food and a natural swimming pool. In Rio, the grand Copacabana Palace (copacabanapalace.com), the country's most famous hotel, is being renovated in preparation for its 90th birthday next year (and the World Cup the year after).In the far north-east, the Len\u00e7\u00f3is Maranhenses national park is most easily accessed from Barreirinhas. Buses run there from S\u00e3o Lu\u00eds in about four hours. An air taxi takes 50 minutes. Stay in Barreirinhas and take day trips by boat or jeep, or try a pousada in the village of Atins, reached by 4x4 trucks or boat. The best time to visit is June-September, after the rainy season has filled the lakes. See parquelencois.com.br.", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Michael Palin", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Television", "Amazon holidays"], "title": "Michael Palin's Brazil"},{"date": "2012-10-19T21:44:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "For a long time I thought of Brazil as a state of mind. A fantasy of sun, sea, samba and lots of other words beginning with \"s\". I partly blame Terry Gilliam, for in Brazil, his 1985 film, he uses the lilting samba beat of the eponymous song (known as Aquarela do Brasil in its native land) to accompany the final crushing of his hero by the mad, dysfunctional world around him. The song represents pure unproductive pleasure. Brazil as the ultimate escapist image.The Latin American mind-set is one with which we north Europeans can't easily identify. China we can relate to because it's single-minded and industrious; India and the sub-continent is crazy and colourful and quite a bit English. Russia is dark and impenetrable but good at putting up with things, which we admire. The Brazilians on the other hand don't have to put up with anything. They have everything. Spicy seafood stews, fruits of the forest and luscious caipirinhas. Swaying music, sensual dancers and perfect bodies, wrapped in balmy warmth and enveloped in rapturous sex. As they say, what's not to like. Even as we read about drug gangs and watch violent films such as City of God, we give Brazil the benefit of the doubt. Bound to be some bad 'uns in a country that plays such beautiful football.So, for me, Brazil's mystique grew, hot and steamy and lush as the jungles that I assumed to cover most of the country. Even its location seemed a touch other-worldly. Most of it in the southern hemisphere and not exactly on the way to anywhere, except possibly Peru or Paraguay. My early attempts to learn more about it only strengthened the mythology. Brazil's northern border was the setting of Conan Doyle's Lost World. The explorer Colonel Percy Fawcett who went deep into the rainforest to discover El Dorado, was never seen again. Peter Fleming, who went to find him, got lost too and just got out of the jungle alive. (Brazilian Adventure, Fleming's first book, is nevertheless, one of the funniest books about nearly dying.)For whatever reason, despite having been to many countries these past 24 years, I'd been keeping Brazil at arm's length. Was it that I didn't want my fantasies to be destroyed? Could it have been that, little Protestant that I am, I was fearful of having too good a time? Of having all those layers of reserve, privacy, caution, discretion and self-doubt corroded by tropical hedonism?Three things helped to convince me that there was no good reason for not going to Brazil. In 2001 Jim O'Neill, an alumnus of Sheffield University no less, and now chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, coined the acronym Bric for what he saw as the global super players of the future. Russia, India and China we might have expected to be included, but Brazil, the \"B\", really caught the eye. Less than 10 years previously, Brazil was suffering 2,700% inflation. Now we were being told by a highly respected economist that the sun was shining out of its backside. Suddenly the exotic paradise sounded a lot more like the rest of the world. Only more successful.Then, in 2007, as I was completing a travel series called New Europe, which I fully intended to be my last, Brazil was chosen to host the 2014 World Cup. Two years after that Rio de Janeiro pipped Madrid, Tokyo and Chicago to win the 2016 Olympics. By now I knew there was another journey to be done. I had to expunge the fantasy and check out the reality of the country everyone would soon be talking about.The fifth-biggest country in the world by land area, Brazil is roughly 3,000 miles from north to south and from east to west. Despite its extent, most of its 205 million people live in towns and cities on or within 100 miles of the coast. The vast and fertile interior comprises millions of hectares of farming land as well as the biggest rainforest and the biggest river system in the world \u2013 the Amazon pours into the Atlantic at the rate of 57 million gallons a second. To travel there means to somehow deal with this imbalance between the thin sliver of human Brazil and the gigantic natural splendours surrounding it.For the series, I split the country into four episodes: the north-east, the Amazon and Brasilia, Rio and the important mining state of Minas Gerais, and S\u00e3o Paulo and the south.The north-east coast is where the first Europeans set foot, by accident, in 1500. Here the production of coffee and sugar and cotton became so successful that it created a plantation system which eventually required some seven million African slaves to work it. This coast, from just south of the mouth of the Amazon to the state of Bahia, is steeped in African influence, in religion, music, food, dress and style.S\u00e3o Lu\u00eds's old town is slowly benefiting from a big restoration scheme. In those streets that have been made over there are shops, bars, internet cafes and restaurants. Calhau Praia is as clean, comfortable, walkable a stretch of sand as I've come across. And it's apparently endless. Around 200 miles south-east of S\u00e3o Lu\u00eds is the Len\u00e7\u00f3is Maranhenses national park. Here is sand in its most majestic state. Dunes up to 50m high spread and billow over roughly 620 square miles. After the rainy season, in March, April and May, up to a thousand lagoons appear among the dunes.Olinda, over 620 miles down the coast from S\u00e3o Lu\u00eds, is a colonial town of some beauty, stretching up and over the hills. It still resonates with style and affluence, with many churches, including the church and convent of St Francis, the oldest convent in Brazil. The Alta da S\u00e9 cathedral has a breathtaking view over the city and across the water to the skyline of Recife.Recife has become the scene of new and adventurous cultural work, especially in music. We lunched at the Pernambuco Yacht Club, out by the sea wall. The food is glorious: caldinho de peixe (fish soup), a moqueca of fresh shrimp, red mullet and beans, caju juice.Further south is Salvador, capital of the state of Bahia and the biggest African city outside Africa. It overlooks All Saints' Bay, believed to be the second-largest natural harbour in the world after Hudson Bay. The Pelourinho (literally the pillory) is the centre of the old town, where breathtaking architectural beauty sits side by side with corrosive poverty and decay. A non-stop music track animates and deafens, and a life ethic rather than a work ethic dominates.Amazonia is another distinctive and clearly defined geographical and economic unit. Apart from investigating a river system that is estimated to contain over 20% of all the freshwater in the world, it offered the chance to visit some of the indigenous tribes who had lived in the rainforest long before Brazil ever became Brazil.In the wide, lake-like waters of the Rio Negro I swam with pink Amazon dolphins. They bounced off my body and came back for more sardines.Anyone who visits Amazonia must at some point pass through its biggest city, Manaus. The internationally renowned opera house, Teatro Amazonas, is an ornate jewel in a rough and ready city.The city of Bel\u00e9m stands at the southern portal of the Amazon delta and is home to the vast waterside Ver-o-peso market, selling fish, fruits and handicrafts. Belem's offshore islands offer a tantalising glimpse of rural riverbank life. Santarem, the third and most intimate of the Amazon's big cities, has a museum with a rich collection of pre-European ceramics, some dating back 10,000 years.Fordlandia was Henry Ford's industrial dream town in the middle of the Amazon jungle. Now a ghost town, it was abandoned in the 1950s.The state of Minas Gerais, on a high plateau north of Rio, has been a heartland of national wealth for over 300 years, and iron ore excavations as deep as volcanic craters scar the countryside around Brazil's fourth city, Belo Horizonte. It has few memorable sights. One is the graceful rectangular Pra\u00e7a da Liberdade, ringed by an esoteric collection of good-looking buildings. I'm told that Lourdes is the hip new quarter for smart clubs and trendy restaurants, but I must have got the wrong time of day.The discovery of gold in the nearby mountains at the start of the 18th century transformed the balance of power from north to south Brazil and was the reason that Rio de Janeiro flourished.Cardeal Mota is a long, thin tourist town within the Serra de Cip\u00f3 national park north of Belo Horizonte. Brazil has no peaks higher than 3,000m and this corner of Minas is exceptional in having anything that looks like a real mountain range. It's a diverse and fragile ecosystem, with more than 2,000 species of plants.This left S\u00e3o Paulo and the south. The southern and south-eastern states cover less than 18% of Brazil's land area but contain 60% of the population. And they feel different. If the north-east is African Brazil, the south is European Brazil. If the Bahians work to relax, the Paulistas work to make money. S\u00e3o Paulo, the biggest city in the southern hemisphere, is also the richest. There are billionaires all over the place, moving around the vast thrombotic city in helicopters. Further south is a string of affluent, progressive cities like Curitiba, Florian\u00f3polis and Porto Alegre, where you can think yourself in Bilbao or Bristol or Antwerp.There's a feeling Curitiba is trying hard to be cool, though the Oscar Niemeyer Museum in the centre doesn't have to try. It just is. Around the museum is a park, one of many carefully laid out green spaces that dot the city, making Curitiba one of the world's greenest cities. Tourist trains run from Curitiba to the coast.Inland there are towns that have gone out of their way to preserve their European roots. Blumenau, in the state of Santa Catarina, is so proud of its German origins that the town's sign reads Wilkommen, and the council offices are in a six-storey Alpine chalet.You can find temporary refuge in a Brothers Grimm world of cobbled streets and tall brick-and-timber buildings. Steins of beer are available and accordion music chortles out. The big event of Blumenau's year is the Oktoberfest, the largest celebration of its kind outside of Munich. Nearby Pomerode, founded by Pomeranian Germans in 1861, is even more obsessed with its Teutonic heritage.Where Brazil finally rubs up against Argentina and Paraguay, the Igua\u00e7u Falls, one of the largest waterfall systems in the world was a spectacular climax to my trip.I can say now that Brazil is more than just a state of mind and yet, after a year steeped in the country, I still haven't completely figured it out. In many ways the Brazilian way of life seems to live up to all the cliches. It is seductive and easy-going. The sun shines on mile upon mile of sparkling clean ocean-washed beaches. Delicious fruits grow in Eden-like profusion. Brazilians of every age and shape exercise in tiny slips of clothing, caressed by sea breezes. Music and dancing is hard-wired into the system. Drinking seems to make them happy without tipping them over into aggression. They are tolerant and informal, and live very much in the present. Socrates \u2013 the footballer, not the philosopher \u2013 described his fellow countrymen as \"a shrewd, vain, happy people\".Yet Brazil is perceived by many outsiders as a dangerous place, where crime and corruption are high and there is every chance of being mugged as you walk the streets. These fears seem to be based on the image of the overpopulated favelas, some of which do have a fearsome reputation. In Rio, favelas accumulate on the hillsides overlooking Copacabana and Ipanema beaches, frightening people who live down below in some of the most expensive real estate in the country. Vik Muniz, one of Brazil's most celebrated artists, described it to me as \"Saint-Tropez surrounded by Mogadishu\".But most of Rio's million or so favelados have nothing to do with organised crime. They are mostly people who work in Rio and keep the city running. The rehabilitation of the favelas is showing good results, but will it come fast enough for a World Cup that is only two years away, with an Olympics hard on its heels ?Growing international stature could be the greatest threat to this happy situation. With Bric-led prosperity has come responsibility, not just for Brazilians themselves, but for a world looking desperately for strong economies to help the weak. A seat for Brazil on the UN Security Council is already being discussed.After four months travelling the country my impression is that people are a little apprehensive about the global status being so swiftly thrust upon them. They will now have to compare themselves with other countries in a way they've never bothered to do before. They will find themselves increasingly assessed and judged by outsiders.While I was there I made a not-altogether-serious list of English words and phrases that seemed to have no counterpart for Brazilians, such as \"introvert\", \"early\" and \"turn the music down\". One word at which they always shook their heads when I asked for a translation was \"self-conscious\".I hope that, with world recognition, the essential, infectious live-and-let-live attitude that I so enjoyed in Brazil will not have to be reined in. Or \"self-conscious\" be added to their dictionary.\u2022 Michael Palin's new four-part series on Brazil starts on BBC One on Wednesday 24 October at 9pmManaus is the major transport hub: flights from Rio and S\u00e3o Paulo take around four hours, and there are flights from other Brazilian cities. Try GOL (voegol.com), TAM (tam.com.br) and TRIP (voetrip.com.br). There are no trains through the jungle, or even buses to speak of. A boat takes around five days from Bel\u00e9m. Michael Palin stayed at the Ariau Amazon Towers (doubles from \u00a3295, ariautowers.com), a treetop hotel in the rainforest 35 miles northwest of Manaus. For cheaper options see visitmanaus.com.Minas Gerais state, north-west of Rio, offers peace and natural beauty. Serra do Cip\u00f3 national park is a good destination for outdoor pursuits. Visit from Belo Horizonte, 63 miles by road from access town Santana do Riacho. The gold rush towns of Ouro Preto, Diamantina and Tiradentes have churches, museums, and gorgeous pousadas (see hiddenpousadasbrazil.com). Brazil Ecotravel (brazil-ecotravel.com) offers a nine-day group tour here.Travellers who make it to the state of Santa Catarina, famous for its beaches, may also enjoy visiting the \"German\" towns of Blumenau and Pomerode, which have half-timbered houses, German food and beers, and a cycle or walking route, the Rota do Enxaimel, which takes in around 70 Germanic buildings. The Blumenau Oktoberfest (oktoberfestblumenau.com.br) typically attracts half a million visitors.The state capital is Florian\u00f3polis, built on an island and a stepping-off point for beach holidays, with bus connections to Curitiba and Porto Alegre, plus Rio, S\u00e3o Paulo and Igua\u00e7u, \u2013 a popular next stop. Hippy and surfer hangout Campeche is 30 minutes from \"Floripa\" by bus. On Ilha de Santa Catarina, Pousada dos Tucanos (pousadasitiodostucanos.com) has several suites, a luscious garden, organic food and a natural swimming pool. In Rio, the grand Copacabana Palace (copacabanapalace.com), the country's most famous hotel, is being renovated in preparation for its 90th birthday next year (and the World Cup the year after).In the far north-east, the Len\u00e7\u00f3is Maranhenses national park is most easily accessed from Barreirinhas. Buses run there from S\u00e3o Lu\u00eds in about four hours. An air taxi takes 50 minutes. Stay in Barreirinhas and take day trips by boat or jeep, or try a pousada in the village of Atins, reached by 4x4 trucks or boat. The best time to visit is June-September, after the rainy season has filled the lakes. See parquelencois.com.br.", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Michael Palin", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Television", "Amazon holidays"], "title": "Michael Palin's Brazil"},{"date": "2012-10-02T19:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "For most analysts, the political regimes of Venezuela and Brazil are very different. Some governments, such as Barack Obama's, suggest the two regimes are opposites, even conflicting. But the solid alliance between the two countries, overlooked by the media, does not mesh with these simplistic analyses.The Venezulean government of Hugo Ch\u00e1vez is accused of being populist and authoritarian, because the state plays a central role in the economy and society, and the regime of showing a dangerous tendency towards single-party politics that makes it very similar to that of Cuba.The Brazilian governments of Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva (2003-10) and Dilma Rousseff, on the other hand, support private companies and have a good relationship with the opposition, to the extent that half a dozen parties, ranging from communist to centre-right, make up the government led by the Workers party. The leading players in Brazilian media, such as Rede Globo, do not mention the existence of censorship in the country.One of the main differences between the two countries is the relationship between the state and civil society. In Brazil, social movements such as Movimento dos Trabalhadores Sem Terra (Landless Workers' Movement), arose against the state. In Venezuela, they were created to a great extent by the state after Ch\u00e1vez got to power.The conservative media consider Venezuela to be a potential danger for the security of the US and a threat to democracy and its neighbours. We should remember that the George W Bush administration assigned Brazil the role of \"moderating\" Venezuela's alleged radical impulses. What these analyses fail to explain is why two regimes that are meant to be opposites and incompatible with one another have established the most solid strategic alliance in the region, as solid or more so as that of Brazil and Argentina.After Lula's arrival in government, the quality of Brazil's relationship with Venezuela leapt. In 2003, the trade between the two countries amounted to $800m. By 2011, this figure had gone up to $5bn. The two countries tightened institutional links through consultancy on public policies and training courses for leaders provided by the prestigious Brazilian research centre Ipea (Institute of Applied Economic Research) and Embrapa (the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation), which opened offices in Caracas.In 2005, Lula and Ch\u00e1vez signed the Brazil-Venezuela strategic alliance and in 2007, they started holding quarterly presidential meetings \u2013 an unheard-of regularity \u2013 to accelerate the integration of infrastructure, which continued until 2010In May 2011, Ipea, which is dependent on Brazil's ministry of strategic affairs, published two important studies that highlight the progress made on integration, involving areas such as the road, river and air transport systems. A \"common economic area\" is being created, stretching from the north of Brazil to the south of Venezuela.Brazil contributes to the industrial development of Venezuela to help it reduce its dependency on oil exports and the import of 70% of all food consumed. Venezuela has started to supply industrial consumables to north Brazil, creating complementary industrial chains in the border area, in sectors such as the metal mechanics industry and agro-industry.Brazilians emphasise \"the quantity and quality\" of the region's resources. Venezuela has the largest oil reserves in the world, having displaced Saudi Arabia, the third-largest bauxite reserves, the fourth-largest gold reserves, the sixth-largest natural gas reserves and the 10th-largest iron reserves. The Brazilian state of Roraima, on the border with Venezuela, holds the world's biggest reserves of gold, niobium and tin, in addition to important deposits of thorium, cobalt, molybdenum, diamonds and titanium.However, the main goals of Lula and Ch\u00e1vez were geopolitical. Samuel Pinheiro Guimar\u00e3es, the most influential diplomat in the Brazilian chancellery, explained that Brazil's strategy sought to prevent the \"removal\" of Ch\u00e1vez through a coup, to block the reincorporation of Venezuela into the North American economy, to extend Mercosur with the inclusion of Bolivia and Ecuador and to hinder the US project to consolidate the Pacific Alliance, which includes Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Peru.This high level of contact and co-operation shows that the analysts who believe these two nations represent opposites in their approach to the politics of the left are wrong. The friendly relations forged by Ch\u00e1vez and Lula have continued under Rousseff. They present a challenge to those seeking to undermine Venezuela by promoting a so-called \"Brazilian\" way: in fact the two models are closer than we are led to believe.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Venezuela", "Americas", "World news", "US news"], "title": "Brazil is covering Venezuela's back | Ra\u00fal Zibechi"},{"date": "2013-03-13T09:49:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has been a regular fixture in the news recently, with coverage spanning from the carnival celebrations in February to the resilience of the Brazilian economy amid global recession (Brazil is now the sixth largest economy in the world, having overtaken the UK). Additionally, the 2014 World Cup and 2016 Olympics, both of which Brazil will host, will boost the country's image further.Likewise, recent achievements in the realms of sustainability seem to reinforce the good reputation. After all, this is the country that boosted world expectations for social and environmental responsibility 20 years ago at the ECO-92 UN Conference and managed to help the Rio+20 conference avoid complete failure. It is also the nation that can brag about having the cleanest energy matrix on the planet and one of only a few countries that got close to meeting the GHG emissions targets agreed at the COP-15 meeting. It is the birthplace of companies winning GRI awards year after year and the land where citizens remain unabashed by the wave of climate change skepticism running across the world, so we are told by the polls.So will Brazilians teach us the way towards a bright sustainable future?Public opinion surveys conducted over the past decade by Market Analysis and the Ministry of Environment reflect as many certainties as paradoxes. Brazilians lead in concern about environmental issues, with over 90% perceiving air pollution, climate change, biodiversity loss or water availability as very serious problems \u2013 at least 30 percentage points more than the international average. High awareness translates into a majority that puts a premium upon environmental protection over economic growth and enthusiasm to engage in domestic recycling if given the chance. Awareness also drives a record level of interest in corporate sustainability, well over 70% since we began tracking it in 2002. Equally relevant, one in two adults admits being willing to pay more for an ethical product.Yet, when it comes to consumers taking action on sustainability, the results are surprising. Ethical consumer action, for example boycotting or rewarding brands and products based on sustainable credentials, is accredited by less than one fifth. Seven in 10 adults mix up batteries and e-waste in the residence garbage. And an overwhelming majority still relies on free non-biodegradable plastic bags when shopping at the supermarket. What is it that makes Brazilians leaders in attitude but laggards in green behaviour?According to GIFE, the largest Brazilian social investors' network, the amount of corporate investment in social and environmental projects exceeded R$2.5bn (nearly US$1.3bn) in 2012, a figure that rivals state investment in social inclusion, community development and environmental protection. In a survey of 400 companies, over half of them already have a department overseeing sustainable policies and on average 3% of their revenues are allotted to socio-environmental programmes. Corporate sustainability reporting is 11 times higher than it was in 2000 and Brazil now comes fourth in the GRI disclosure ranking. Printed media followed this boom, increasing its coverage of the sustainability agenda by nine times the amount since 2000.In other words, sustainability issues have entered the daily language in Brazil and, unlike other countries in Latin America, here one can find a tremendously stimulating context for bringing sustainability into the public agenda.But attentiveness and positive attitudes towards sustainability issues are being overshadowed by long-standing barriers. Recycling is impaired by the fact that less than a third of the 5,565 municipalities provide selective waste collection. Greenwashing has already forced the national council for advertisement self-regulation (CONAR) to set up a specific code that bans false claims by brands. An average annual per capita income slightly exceeding US$10,000 makes it very difficult to afford the premium prices of most sustainable choices or lifestyles. And, on top of all that, the repressed consumption felt by almost 42 million Brazilians who have moved into the new middle class in the past few years cannot form a base for responsible consumerism.When asked who is responsible for socio-environmental degradation, Brazilians blame the government; when asked who should lead, they point to government once again. Yet it is the government that, since early 2011, has been encouraging deforestation and pollution through the building of mega-dams in the Amazon basin, a petrol rush in the pre-salt ocean layers detrimental to the biofuel industry and tax-break schemes for the car industry without emissions compensations. It is the same government that over the past couple of years has launched an avant-guard solid waste regulation and made concerted efforts with the private sector to curb illegal logging as well as meat and soy trade from deforested areas. Somehow, the apparent lack of direction from politicians, and the inaction of most people, ultimately condenses the conundrum of sustainability within Brazilian society.So what can the public mood towards sustainability in Brazil teach us about people's reaction to a challenging agenda? It tells us that in order to mobilise consumers and citizens, you must go beyond highlighting the gravity of an issue. It shows that awareness of and attention to sustainability can be perfectly divorced from sustainable action and that while corporate and social leadership are extremely positive, they are not sufficient conditions to help society walk the talk of sustainability. Brazilians, like most citizens around the globe, have a long and winding road ahead to meet sustainable prosperity.This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Behaviour"], "title": "Sustainability in Brazil: a mixed conundrum"},{"date": "2013-06-21T22:01:33Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Within the space of a few weeks, two emerging nations have been rocked by demonstrations on a scale unseen for decades. Both had popular, confident leaders used to winning elections. Both had booming economies and enjoyed an expanding role on the world stage. Both were taken aback by the speed and the catholic nature of demands. Welcome, Turkey and Brazil, to the world of the pop-up protest.For Dilma Rousseff, a former student radical herself, the revolutionary nature of the protest, the vast crowds that filled Rio's streets, must be especially galling. What had her administration been about \u2013 and that of Lula da Silva's before it \u2013 if it had not been about pulling millions out of extreme poverty with programmes such as Bolsa Fam\u00edlia, the social welfare programme? Like the president of Brazil, the mayor of S\u00e3o Paulo, Fernando Haddad, is a centre-left politician of the Workers' party, who spent the first months of office this year announcing new housing for the low-paid and improvements to the public transport ticket system. What happened? A small demonstration about a rise in bus rides worth all of six pence spirals into a national crisis.\"Stop corruption. Change Brazil\"; \"Halt evictions\"; \"Come to the street. It's the only place we don't pay taxes\"; \"Government failure to understand education will lead to revolution\": are the placards unfair or deserved? They may be hard on Ms Rousseff or Mr da Silva personally, but the political class as a whole amply merits the rage it is now reaping. Corruption in their ranks is so endemic that one of Brazil's richest men and former S\u00e3o Paulo mayor, Paulo Maluf, lent his name to it. To \"Maluf\" is to steal millions from Brazilian taxpayers and to stash it in a secret bank account in Jersey. The 12 stadiums Brazil had to build for the World Cup (publicly funded ones cost several times more than the privately built ones) may have been the spark, but outrage at the way public money is spent is a long-standing grievance. Ms Rousseff and the Fifa president Sepp Blatter were both booed at the opening ceremony of the Confederations Cup, not because Brazilians, of all people, have suddenly turned against football, but because they and some footballers turned against the establishment. Millions see that their hard-earned and heavily taxed money will do little more than line Fifa's pockets, and leave Brazil with a whole herd of white elephants. Brazilians are right to get the feel-bad factor of the coming jamborees \u2013 the World Cup and the Olympics. They compare the investments going into the World Cup with those made in health and education. Someone, somewhere forgot to ask them first what they feel about it. Now they know.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Protest", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva"], "title": "Brazil: feel-bad factor | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-06-21T22:01:33Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Within the space of a few weeks, two emerging nations have been rocked by demonstrations on a scale unseen for decades. Both had popular, confident leaders used to winning elections. Both had booming economies and enjoyed an expanding role on the world stage. Both were taken aback by the speed and the catholic nature of demands. Welcome, Turkey and Brazil, to the world of the pop-up protest.For Dilma Rousseff, a former student radical herself, the revolutionary nature of the protest, the vast crowds that filled Rio's streets, must be especially galling. What had her administration been about \u2013 and that of Lula da Silva's before it \u2013 if it had not been about pulling millions out of extreme poverty with programmes such as Bolsa Fam\u00edlia, the social welfare programme? Like the president of Brazil, the mayor of S\u00e3o Paulo, Fernando Haddad, is a centre-left politician of the Workers' party, who spent the first months of office this year announcing new housing for the low-paid and improvements to the public transport ticket system. What happened? A small demonstration about a rise in bus rides worth all of six pence spirals into a national crisis.\"Stop corruption. Change Brazil\"; \"Halt evictions\"; \"Come to the street. It's the only place we don't pay taxes\"; \"Government failure to understand education will lead to revolution\": are the placards unfair or deserved? They may be hard on Ms Rousseff or Mr da Silva personally, but the political class as a whole amply merits the rage it is now reaping. Corruption in their ranks is so endemic that one of Brazil's richest men and former S\u00e3o Paulo mayor, Paulo Maluf, lent his name to it. To \"Maluf\" is to steal millions from Brazilian taxpayers and to stash it in a secret bank account in Jersey. The 12 stadiums Brazil had to build for the World Cup (publicly funded ones cost several times more than the privately built ones) may have been the spark, but outrage at the way public money is spent is a long-standing grievance. Ms Rousseff and the Fifa president Sepp Blatter were both booed at the opening ceremony of the Confederations Cup, not because Brazilians, of all people, have suddenly turned against football, but because they and some footballers turned against the establishment. Millions see that their hard-earned and heavily taxed money will do little more than line Fifa's pockets, and leave Brazil with a whole herd of white elephants. Brazilians are right to get the feel-bad factor of the coming jamborees \u2013 the World Cup and the Olympics. They compare the investments going into the World Cup with those made in health and education. Someone, somewhere forgot to ask them first what they feel about it. Now they know.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Protest", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva"], "title": "Brazil: feel-bad factor | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-06-20T18:22:21Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's biggest protests in two decades intensified on Thursday as 300,000 people took to the streets of Rio de Janeiro and hundreds of thousands more flooded other cities. The demonstrations came despite the government's U-turn over public transport fare hikes which sparked the protests over a week ago.Authorities in Rio de Janeiro increased police manpower more than tenfold to deal with the protests.In the centre of the city, shops pulled down shutters as crowds gathered next to the cathedral, hundreds wearing plastic masks.But the atmosphere was festive, with music and chanting from the mostly young, middle-class crowd. The wide variety of banners showed how this movement has been a magnet for frustrations that have simmered for many years: \"Stop corruption. Change Brazil\", \"Come to the street. It's the only place we don't pay taxes\", \"Government failure to understand education will lead to revolution\", \"We want to change everything wrong in our country\", \"Stop police violence\" \u2013 Seemingly the only common theme was a desire for change.\"There are no politicians who speak for us,\" said Jamaime Schmitt, an engineer. \"This is not just about bus fares any more. We pay high taxes and we are a rich country, but we can't see this in our schools, hospitals and roads.\"In Sao Paulo protesters carried banners saying \"Twenty cents was just the start,\" referring to the bus fare reductions, as crowds converged along the Avenida Paulista, the broad avenue in the centre of the city.In the capital, Brasilia, tens of thousands of protesters by early evening marched around the landmark modernist buildings that house Congress, the Supreme Court and presidential offices.The swelling tide of protests prompted President Dilma Rousseff to cancel a trip next week to Japan, her office said.In Rio police vastly underestimated the scale of a previous demonstration on Monday, which was largely peaceful but ended with fire and vandalism outside the legislative assembly. Only 150 officers were on duty to deal with a crowd of more than 100,000. Police said they had increased on-duty personnel and placed a battalion of riot police on standby.The military police spokesman for Rio state, Frederico Caldas, estimated that 8,000 police would be involved in a dual operation to handle the demonstration in the centre of the city and security for the Spanish and Tahitian football teams, who were playing in the Confederations Cup. Police cordoned off the Maracan\u00e3 stadium, blocking access to protesters during the game. Only ticket-holders were allowed to enter. Inside the stadium, fans sang protest songs and showed support for the throngs of demonstrators gathering in the city.Police numbers in Rio included 1,200 riot officers who would remain in barracks unless the demonstration turned violent. They were to be armed with teargas and rubber bullets, but the authorities said they would only be used in an emergency.Thursday's demonstration will be the biggest test of a high-tech police command centre, opened last month, which includes a giant screen with images from hundreds of cameras around the city. For the march on Thursday night, helicopters with high-resolution imaging will also monitor the crowd, but the police denied rumours that drones would be used. \"There will be no drones in this operation. That is a false rumourWe don't even have a law that allows drones,\" said the spokesman.Early reports seemed to indicate the demonstrations were largely peaceful although police in the northeastern city of Salvador shot tear gas canisters and rubber bullets to disperse a small crowd of protesters trying to break through a police barrier blocking one of the city's streets.The spark for the unrest was a rise in public transport fares. After early protests were handled brutally by police , the unrest escalated and spread to include a long list of grievances, including corruption, poor public services, and the high cost of stadiums being built for the Confederations Cup and next year's World Cup.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "Protest", "World news"], "title": "Brazil: 300,000 protest in Rio"},{"date": "2013-06-21T22:01:33Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Within the space of a few weeks, two emerging nations have been rocked by demonstrations on a scale unseen for decades. Both had popular, confident leaders used to winning elections. Both had booming economies and enjoyed an expanding role on the world stage. Both were taken aback by the speed and the catholic nature of demands. Welcome, Turkey and Brazil, to the world of the pop-up protest.For Dilma Rousseff, a former student radical herself, the revolutionary nature of the protest, the vast crowds that filled Rio's streets, must be especially galling. What had her administration been about \u2013 and that of Lula da Silva's before it \u2013 if it had not been about pulling millions out of extreme poverty with programmes such as Bolsa Fam\u00edlia, the social welfare programme? Like the president of Brazil, the mayor of S\u00e3o Paulo, Fernando Haddad, is a centre-left politician of the Workers' party, who spent the first months of office this year announcing new housing for the low-paid and improvements to the public transport ticket system. What happened? A small demonstration about a rise in bus rides worth all of six pence spirals into a national crisis.\"Stop corruption. Change Brazil\"; \"Halt evictions\"; \"Come to the street. It's the only place we don't pay taxes\"; \"Government failure to understand education will lead to revolution\": are the placards unfair or deserved? They may be hard on Ms Rousseff or Mr da Silva personally, but the political class as a whole amply merits the rage it is now reaping. Corruption in their ranks is so endemic that one of Brazil's richest men and former S\u00e3o Paulo mayor, Paulo Maluf, lent his name to it. To \"Maluf\" is to steal millions from Brazilian taxpayers and to stash it in a secret bank account in Jersey. The 12 stadiums Brazil had to build for the World Cup (publicly funded ones cost several times more than the privately built ones) may have been the spark, but outrage at the way public money is spent is a long-standing grievance. Ms Rousseff and the Fifa president Sepp Blatter were both booed at the opening ceremony of the Confederations Cup, not because Brazilians, of all people, have suddenly turned against football, but because they and some footballers turned against the establishment. Millions see that their hard-earned and heavily taxed money will do little more than line Fifa's pockets, and leave Brazil with a whole herd of white elephants. Brazilians are right to get the feel-bad factor of the coming jamborees \u2013 the World Cup and the Olympics. They compare the investments going into the World Cup with those made in health and education. Someone, somewhere forgot to ask them first what they feel about it. Now they know.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Protest", "Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva"], "title": "Brazil: feel-bad factor | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-06-20T18:22:21Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil's biggest protests in two decades intensified on Thursday as 300,000 people took to the streets of Rio de Janeiro and hundreds of thousands more flooded other cities. The demonstrations came despite the government's U-turn over public transport fare hikes which sparked the protests over a week ago.Authorities in Rio de Janeiro increased police manpower more than tenfold to deal with the protests.In the centre of the city, shops pulled down shutters as crowds gathered next to the cathedral, hundreds wearing plastic masks.But the atmosphere was festive, with music and chanting from the mostly young, middle-class crowd. The wide variety of banners showed how this movement has been a magnet for frustrations that have simmered for many years: \"Stop corruption. Change Brazil\", \"Come to the street. It's the only place we don't pay taxes\", \"Government failure to understand education will lead to revolution\", \"We want to change everything wrong in our country\", \"Stop police violence\" \u2013 Seemingly the only common theme was a desire for change.\"There are no politicians who speak for us,\" said Jamaime Schmitt, an engineer. \"This is not just about bus fares any more. We pay high taxes and we are a rich country, but we can't see this in our schools, hospitals and roads.\"In Sao Paulo protesters carried banners saying \"Twenty cents was just the start,\" referring to the bus fare reductions, as crowds converged along the Avenida Paulista, the broad avenue in the centre of the city.In the capital, Brasilia, tens of thousands of protesters by early evening marched around the landmark modernist buildings that house Congress, the Supreme Court and presidential offices.The swelling tide of protests prompted President Dilma Rousseff to cancel a trip next week to Japan, her office said.In Rio police vastly underestimated the scale of a previous demonstration on Monday, which was largely peaceful but ended with fire and vandalism outside the legislative assembly. Only 150 officers were on duty to deal with a crowd of more than 100,000. Police said they had increased on-duty personnel and placed a battalion of riot police on standby.The military police spokesman for Rio state, Frederico Caldas, estimated that 8,000 police would be involved in a dual operation to handle the demonstration in the centre of the city and security for the Spanish and Tahitian football teams, who were playing in the Confederations Cup. Police cordoned off the Maracan\u00e3 stadium, blocking access to protesters during the game. Only ticket-holders were allowed to enter. Inside the stadium, fans sang protest songs and showed support for the throngs of demonstrators gathering in the city.Police numbers in Rio included 1,200 riot officers who would remain in barracks unless the demonstration turned violent. They were to be armed with teargas and rubber bullets, but the authorities said they would only be used in an emergency.Thursday's demonstration will be the biggest test of a high-tech police command centre, opened last month, which includes a giant screen with images from hundreds of cameras around the city. For the march on Thursday night, helicopters with high-resolution imaging will also monitor the crowd, but the police denied rumours that drones would be used. \"There will be no drones in this operation. That is a false rumourWe don't even have a law that allows drones,\" said the spokesman.Early reports seemed to indicate the demonstrations were largely peaceful although police in the northeastern city of Salvador shot tear gas canisters and rubber bullets to disperse a small crowd of protesters trying to break through a police barrier blocking one of the city's streets.The spark for the unrest was a rise in public transport fares. After early protests were handled brutally by police , the unrest escalated and spread to include a long list of grievances, including corruption, poor public services, and the high cost of stadiums being built for the Confederations Cup and next year's World Cup.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "Protest", "World news"], "title": "Brazil: 300,000 protest in Rio"},{"date": "2013-06-18T08:55:28Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil experienced one of its biggest nights of protest in decades on Monday as more than 100,000 people took to the streets nationwide to express their frustration at heavyhanded policing, poor public services and high costs for the World Cup.The major demonstrations in Rio de Janeiro, S\u00e3o Paulo, Brasilia, Belem, Belo Horizonte, Salvador and elsewhere started peacefully but several led to clashes with police and arson attacks on cars and buses. In Rio images and video posted online showed vast crowds.If you took part in Monday night's protests or can shed more light on what's happening in Brazil, you can help the Guardian's reporting team by sharing your view. Upload your eyewitness accounts or any information to will help us document the situation \u2013 images, video or text.Though we'd like to hear from you, your security is most important. We recognise it may not always be safe to record or share your experiences \u2013 so please think about this when sending your content to GuardianWitness.Here is a selection of some of the photos, videos and stories you've sent in so far. You can see more on the assignment homepage.The Brazilian people are able weary of taxes with the poor quality of public services, and overpricing in the works of the World Cup, Brazil's 11 major cities protest.Sent via Guardian Witness By TatianaTricia  18 June 2013, 13:49 Lara Ferreira writes that this photo shows the protest in Vit\u00f3ria, Esp\u00edrito Santo where 20,000 young people were out to demand change.Fortaleza is one of the most violent cities in the world (13a by ONU) and will be a place for some matches of World Soccer Championship next year. People did a protest march of about 10.000 protesters and gave this warning to foreign people no to come here because their lives would be in danger. The murder rate in Fortaleza is about 60 / 10.000 inhabitants.Sent via Guardian Witness By Ricardo Lira  18 June 2013, 13:57 A man carries a poster saying \" Only love shall leave us breathless\", during protests last nightSent via Guardian Witness By Raquel Jorge  18 June 2013, 12:50 More than 60.000 participated of the protest yesterday in S\u00e3o Paulo. This picture was taken in Largo da Batata (Pinheiros), at 6pm, the beggining of the protestSent via Guardian Witness By Mari Zendron  18 June 2013, 12:57 82-year-old marches on Faria Lima avenue, to the applause of the young crowd around her.Sent via Guardian Witness By marciocaparica  18 June 2013, 13:31 The vast majority of demonstrators were peaceful and organised during the Brazilian protests, with an agitated minority engaging in minor conflicts with the shock policeSent via Guardian Witness By Roberto De Nigris  18 June 2013, 13:32 The feeling that took so many people to the streets is not only brazilian, it's not only turkish, it is global. It's bigger than a president, the government.It's about an order, a system, our global system.The fact is that we don't feel represented. We don't have voiceThe truth is that we lost our life thinking about the politics and it makes no difference because they don't have enough power to change what need to be changed and as we live in what we call as democracy, the fault is all oursbecause WE don't know how to choose good representativesand in the end we feel guilty.Those protests is our voice that was quiet for years and now is screaming \" I DO CARE. I NEED TO TO SOMETHING TO CHANGE, BUT I DON'T BELIEVE IN THE POLITICS WE HAVE AND NOW I BELIEVE IN POWER OF PEOPLE.\"Sent via Guardian Witness By Carol Montenegro  18 June 2013, 14:01 The crowd is chanting \"without any political party \" - meaning there's no affiliation with one particular party. Everyone is just fed up with the government as a whole.Sent via Guardian Witness By claragaspari  18 June 2013, 11:18 Peaceful manifestation in Novo Hamburgo. About 2000 peoplesSent via Guardian Witness By Gabriel Amaral  18 June 2013, 14:13 Sent via Guardian Witness By Rafaela Mendes Fearnley  18 June 2013, 14:17 I represent myself!\"\u00d4 abre alas, que eu quero passar..\" (piece of music \"Abre Alas\" from Chiquinha Gonzaga)And we passed by.We passed by open chest and lung full! We went (at least the group I was!) of Largo da Batata until Espraiada, where we crossed and close the Marginal Pinheiros (probably 9 km).Who knew that together we could get this kind of repercussion?Without the police, everything flowed without violence. It is hard to pick a word to define what happened yesterday. Unfortunately, some political parties were opportunistic and raised up his flags.But even this situation was dealed only with the attitude of the majority, amid cries as \"lowers the party flag and raises up the flag of Brazil!\" and even in the attitude of most get down on the floor to show that we wasnt represented by them.A completely peaceful protest, of respect, unity, activism, freedom and love.A love that was asleep in every person who was there! One thing that I thought was beautiful contrast of the population. Since the kids who barely knew why they was there until the lady of 82 years holding a giant poster saying \"82 years. Did not come to play, but to express.\" No matter, they were all together.People in the windows, inside their offices shaking white flags. Drivers in bus flashing lights and waving as an incentive.And many ... so many applauses.Brazil woke up, indeed. For many things! There, each one was expressing his desire for change and your personal unsatisfaction. Whether for transportation, health, sexual orientation, education.In my opinion I much hope, for real, that\u00b4s only the beginning of a new Brazil.Who was there, like me, can not measure the beauty and emotion of seeing that the whole is stronger. And it have a voice.And a voice with owner. Yesterday I represent you that had to work late, you for some reason couldnt go.Yesterday, we replaced \"I\" to \"we\".Yesterday, we made the world listen that here beats a green and yellow heart.A green and yellow heart full of hope and idealism. But, before that... Love. Yes, thats what i saw yesterday.Tatyana cardoso Alves BragaSent via Guardian Witness By taty_cardoso  18 June 2013, 16:01 Protest in Rio de Janeiro against the increase in bus fares.Sent via Guardian Witness By Elisa Mendes  18 June 2013, 16:33 We are museolgy students and we want to not only preserve our monuments, we want to make history for change our future, the future of our country.Sent via Guardian Witness By Thais Assis  18 June 2013, 16:09 police at the back of the walkSent via Guardian Witness By Paulo Salgado  18 June 2013, 19:37 Solidarity protests across the world took place on Monday night.Sent via Guardian Witness By Rodrigo Siqueira Reis  18 June 2013, 14:17 Approximately 300 gathered in Copenhagen, Denmark to protest against corruption and social injustice in Brazil, showing support for the protests that are sweeping the South American country. Most participants were brazilians but a few danish joined the manifestation that gathered in front of the city hall and finished in front of the Brazilian Embassy in Denmark where the participants chantered the brazilain national anthem.Sent via Guardian Witness By mayra_marques  18 June 2013, 22:15 People living in Coimbra, Portugal, show their support for the Brazilian protests.Sent via Guardian Witness By __didio  18 June 2013, 23:23 Sent via Guardian Witness By Clau Vieira  18 June 2013, 23:58 Today, 18 june, a protest took plac\u00ea at Liberdade square, in Porto city, Portugal. Many people, from diferent countries were there with us discussing about politics, social problems and economic crisis all over the world. It was fabulous!Sent via Guardian Witness By M\u00f4nica Lobo  19 June 2013, 00:06 Brazilians who live in New York show their support for the protests happening in Brazil. The video shows us singing our national anthem.Sent via Guardian Witness By Thiago Fico  18 June 2013, 17:38 ", "tags": ["Brazil", "Protest", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil protests - share your stories"},{"date": "2013-08-07T11:29:04Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Unicamp library system (SBU \u2013 Sistema de Bibliotecas da Unicamp) consists of the central library and 26 other libraries located on four campuses in three towns. The existing book collections in the libraries surpass 1.1 million, with more than 300,000 ebooks, 30,000 electronic journal titles and 100% of all digital theses produced at the university.The Unicamp academic community is composed of 30,000 students, 2,000 professors and 7,000 employees. Its bibliographical material circulation is above 1.2 million (in 2012), with 1.7 million of online circulation transactions, and more than 600,000 downloads of international scientific material.Decrease in print use by 35%There's no doubt that new technologies have changed and are still changing the way academic libraries run and plan for the future. At Unicamp, this effect can be seen in the decreased use of our printed collections by 35% over the past three years.Unicamp generates 15% of scientific production in Brazil, so it's no surprise that we've seen a rise in the search for electronic information (journals, database, ebooks), with the annual number of document downloads now above 600,000. Motivated by this change in the use of collections, the library started an action with the International Scientific Journal in 2011 to transfer 50% of our annual subscription of 5,000 titles from printed format to electronic version only. Besides conserving financial resources, this enabled more than 100,000 new acquisitions.Putting the user firstThese transformations imposed by technology will probably make the library change its activity in the community following three basic principles: preserving the existing collection, organising and easing the access to new sources of information in electronic/digital format, and creating new relationships and environments in our buildings.In 2002, SBU began to transform its services, first in the structure of Unicamp's digital library, by digitising 100% of theses in 2009 \u2013 this made Unicamp the only university in Latin America to offer free access to all its theses. The digital thesis collection (now comprising over 39,000) has already been accessed more than 30 million times with more than six million downloads. In 2003, the Program of Access to Electronic Information (PAIe) was created to systematise the access to electronic journals. It not only controls this new collection, but also offers support to the community by guiding the access to these new sources of information.Library 'with no walls'A new library facility is being built to help with the preservation of existing physical collections and store the special collections and rare books. A digitisation process of around 4,000 rare books is also under way to make them available with free access via Unicamp's digital library. Other technologies will soon be installed to make the central library a model library, offering more autonomy to the users in how they access electronic collections and circulate of printed materials.Rethinking the library's activities must prioritise the academic activity of our community. This will avoid information overload and fatigue, making the information provided by the library certified by the quality of its content. The academic library today should not be a library 'with no walls'; it must go where the user is: to the classroom, to the lab, into the home and even into the pocket, using mobile devices.Luiz Atilio Vicentini is the coordinator of Unicamp system of libraries, Brazil This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Open access", "Management and administration", "Academics", "Research", "Student engagement", "Technology", "Infrastructure", "Higher education", "Education", "Research"], "title": "Library futures: Unicamp, Brazil"},{"date": "2013-08-07T11:29:04Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Unicamp library system (SBU \u2013 Sistema de Bibliotecas da Unicamp) consists of the central library and 26 other libraries located on four campuses in three towns. The existing book collections in the libraries surpass 1.1 million, with more than 300,000 ebooks, 30,000 electronic journal titles and 100% of all digital theses produced at the university.The Unicamp academic community is composed of 30,000 students, 2,000 professors and 7,000 employees. Its bibliographical material circulation is above 1.2 million (in 2012), with 1.7 million of online circulation transactions, and more than 600,000 downloads of international scientific material.Decrease in print use by 35%There's no doubt that new technologies have changed and are still changing the way academic libraries run and plan for the future. At Unicamp, this effect can be seen in the decreased use of our printed collections by 35% over the past three years.Unicamp generates 15% of scientific production in Brazil, so it's no surprise that we've seen a rise in the search for electronic information (journals, database, ebooks), with the annual number of document downloads now above 600,000. Motivated by this change in the use of collections, the library started an action with the International Scientific Journal in 2011 to transfer 50% of our annual subscription of 5,000 titles from printed format to electronic version only. Besides conserving financial resources, this enabled more than 100,000 new acquisitions.Putting the user firstThese transformations imposed by technology will probably make the library change its activity in the community following three basic principles: preserving the existing collection, organising and easing the access to new sources of information in electronic/digital format, and creating new relationships and environments in our buildings.In 2002, SBU began to transform its services, first in the structure of Unicamp's digital library, by digitising 100% of theses in 2009 \u2013 this made Unicamp the only university in Latin America to offer free access to all its theses. The digital thesis collection (now comprising over 39,000) has already been accessed more than 30 million times with more than six million downloads. In 2003, the Program of Access to Electronic Information (PAIe) was created to systematise the access to electronic journals. It not only controls this new collection, but also offers support to the community by guiding the access to these new sources of information.Library 'with no walls'A new library facility is being built to help with the preservation of existing physical collections and store the special collections and rare books. A digitisation process of around 4,000 rare books is also under way to make them available with free access via Unicamp's digital library. Other technologies will soon be installed to make the central library a model library, offering more autonomy to the users in how they access electronic collections and circulate of printed materials.Rethinking the library's activities must prioritise the academic activity of our community. This will avoid information overload and fatigue, making the information provided by the library certified by the quality of its content. The academic library today should not be a library 'with no walls'; it must go where the user is: to the classroom, to the lab, into the home and even into the pocket, using mobile devices.Luiz Atilio Vicentini is the coordinator of Unicamp system of libraries, Brazil This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Open access", "Management and administration", "Academics", "Research", "Student engagement", "Technology", "Infrastructure", "Higher education", "Education", "Research"], "title": "Library futures: Unicamp, Brazil"},{"date": "2013-09-03T15:50:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Higher temperatures, drastic changes in rainfall, lower productivity, more blight and disease \u2212 these are just some of the expected consequences of climate change in Brazil if the projections of 345 scientists who make up the Brazilian Panel on Climate Change (PBMC) prove true.They predict that if present trends in greenhouse gas emissions continue, average temperatures in Brazil will be 3\u00ba-6\u00baC higher by 2100 than they were at the end of the 20th century.Rainfall patterns could change drastically, increasing by up to 30% in the south and south-east of the country, while diminishing by up to 40% in the north and north-east.The forecasts, based on research over the past six years, are contained in a report that provides the most complete diagnosis yet of the future tendencies of the Brazilian climate.The report will be presented at Brazil's first national conference on global climate change, to be held in S\u00e3o Paulo from 9-13 September and organised by the publicly-funded S\u00e3o Paulo Research Foundation (FAPESP). The data will then be included in the fifth report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), to be released two weeks later.The changes in temperature and rainfall will not be confined to Brazil, the largest country in South America, but will also affect neighbouring countries.\"With the exception of Chile's central and southern coast, where the last decades have seen a cooling, there will be a rise in temperature in all the other regions of South America,\" says Jose Marengo, a climate scientist at Brazil's National Institute for Space Research (INPE), who uses regional climate models to develop projections for the future.\"There is a feeling that the seasons have become a bit crazy, with more frequent extremes of climate.\"Tornados, once a rare occurrence, will become more frequent. Big and medium-sized cities will become hotter, with altered rain patterns. Rainfall in the Amazon region and in the semi-arid caatinga area of the north-east could fall by 40%, whereas in the south and south-east it could increase by 30%.For the cerrado savanna region of the central plateau, which has become a major cereal growing area, and the wetlands of the Pantanal, climate models also indicate significant changes, although the reliability of these projections is lower.All these changes will have a dramatic effect on harvests in one of the world's major food producing countries, but Brazil's farmers have so far shown little awareness of the problems in store, and consequently have not begun to adapt to the changing climate. Monocultures continue to expand, advancing into the Amazon region and taking over the cerrado.\"We must act now to avoid a worsening situation,\" warns Eduardo Assad, one of the PBMC researchers, who works for Embrapa, the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation.Suggested measures include investing intensively in mixed agricultural systems, and abandoning the practice of monoculture. Farmers should also increase the biological fixation of nitrogen, reduce the use of pesticides (since 2008, Brazil has been the world's biggest consumer), and increase the rotation of crops.\"The knowledge to do all this already exists, but we need stronger government guidance [for farmers],\" Assad warns. \"We must increase productivity in the mid-west, south-east and south to avoid the destruction of the Amazon. The reorganisation of Brazil's rural space is urgent.\"Antonio Magalh\u00e3es, adviser to the government's Centre for Strategic Studies and Management in Science, Technology and Innovation, also believes that agricultural, industrial and urban policies must be changed to include concerns with sustainability and extreme climate events such as rainstorms and droughts. \"We must widen the debate and overcome institutional rigidity, resistances and short-term interests.\"Crop losses are already being noted. \"Since 2000, we have seen a fall in productivity in some regions, principally in coffee, soy and maize,\" Assad says.Soy will be the most affected. By the end of 2013, Brazil is expected to overtake the US to become the world's major producer, but that position will be hard to sustain if the expected effects of climate change kick in.\"Even if the amount of rain stays the same, soil humidity will fall, because the rise in average temperatures will increase evaporation,\" Magalh\u00e3es warns.This will affect regions, such as the semi-arid north-east, where lack of water is a constant. The productivity of basic crops such as maize, beans, cotton, cassava and rice will suffer, leading to a drop in income in the region that is already Brazil's most backward in terms of social indicators intensifying poverty.The federal government's successful poverty reduction programme, Bolsa Familia, will not be enough to stop a renewal of migration from the rural area to the cities, worsening infrastructure problems related to housing, transport and sanitation.The PBMC report foresees that climate change in Brazil will also bring an increase in fungal diseases and pests, caused by the rise of CO\u00b2 levels in the air and ultraviolet B radiation. In addition to cereals, fruit crops such as banana, mango and grape will be hit.The report also says that more, and more intense, episodes of flooding and drought could alter the volume of the rivers and affect the supply of water to dam reservoirs. Hydropower accounts for well over half of Brazil's energy.Biodiversity will be badly affected, including that of aquatic environments. Some biomes, characterised by a dominant vegetation, have already lost large areas because of intensive agriculture \u2212 the cerrado has lost 47% and the caatinga 44% \u2212 and it is now questionable whether their ecological equilibrium can be restored.In the cities, where more than 85% of Brazilians now live, there will be a greater risk of mudslides and worse flooding, while many of the major cities \u2212 such as Rio, Salvador and Recife \u2212 are on the coast, and therefore subject to a possible rise in ocean levels.The researchers want their report to be used to guide the drawing up and implementation of public policies for climate change adaptation and mitigation, as well as to help companies in their future planning.The report, the first by the PBMC, also marks Brazil's acceptance by the IPCC as a nation supplying projections on a planetary scale. This is because it has developed its own climate simulation model, the Brazilian Earth System Model (BESM) \u2212 the only country in the southern hemisphere to do so.The establishment of the BESM has enabled the scientists to reconstruct recent occurrences of the El Ni\u00f1o climate phenomenon \u2212 caused by abnormal heating up of the surface waters of the equatorial Pacific, which affects the rainfall regime in a large part of the planet \u2212 and simulate the effects of future El Ni\u00f1os.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Climate change", "Food security", "Food", "Agriculture", "Farming", "Climate change", "Environment"], "title": "Brazil faces drop in crops"},{"date": "2013-08-07T11:29:04Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Unicamp library system (SBU \u2013 Sistema de Bibliotecas da Unicamp) consists of the central library and 26 other libraries located on four campuses in three towns. The existing book collections in the libraries surpass 1.1 million, with more than 300,000 ebooks, 30,000 electronic journal titles and 100% of all digital theses produced at the university.The Unicamp academic community is composed of 30,000 students, 2,000 professors and 7,000 employees. Its bibliographical material circulation is above 1.2 million (in 2012), with 1.7 million of online circulation transactions, and more than 600,000 downloads of international scientific material.Decrease in print use by 35%There's no doubt that new technologies have changed and are still changing the way academic libraries run and plan for the future. At Unicamp, this effect can be seen in the decreased use of our printed collections by 35% over the past three years.Unicamp generates 15% of scientific production in Brazil, so it's no surprise that we've seen a rise in the search for electronic information (journals, database, ebooks), with the annual number of document downloads now above 600,000. Motivated by this change in the use of collections, the library started an action with the International Scientific Journal in 2011 to transfer 50% of our annual subscription of 5,000 titles from printed format to electronic version only. Besides conserving financial resources, this enabled more than 100,000 new acquisitions.Putting the user firstThese transformations imposed by technology will probably make the library change its activity in the community following three basic principles: preserving the existing collection, organising and easing the access to new sources of information in electronic/digital format, and creating new relationships and environments in our buildings.In 2002, SBU began to transform its services, first in the structure of Unicamp's digital library, by digitising 100% of theses in 2009 \u2013 this made Unicamp the only university in Latin America to offer free access to all its theses. The digital thesis collection (now comprising over 39,000) has already been accessed more than 30 million times with more than six million downloads. In 2003, the Program of Access to Electronic Information (PAIe) was created to systematise the access to electronic journals. It not only controls this new collection, but also offers support to the community by guiding the access to these new sources of information.Library 'with no walls'A new library facility is being built to help with the preservation of existing physical collections and store the special collections and rare books. A digitisation process of around 4,000 rare books is also under way to make them available with free access via Unicamp's digital library. Other technologies will soon be installed to make the central library a model library, offering more autonomy to the users in how they access electronic collections and circulate of printed materials.Rethinking the library's activities must prioritise the academic activity of our community. This will avoid information overload and fatigue, making the information provided by the library certified by the quality of its content. The academic library today should not be a library 'with no walls'; it must go where the user is: to the classroom, to the lab, into the home and even into the pocket, using mobile devices.Luiz Atilio Vicentini is the coordinator of Unicamp system of libraries, Brazil This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Open access", "Management and administration", "Academics", "Research", "Student engagement", "Technology", "Infrastructure", "Higher education", "Education", "Research"], "title": "Library futures: Unicamp, Brazil"},{"date": "2013-09-03T15:50:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Higher temperatures, drastic changes in rainfall, lower productivity, more blight and disease \u2212 these are just some of the expected consequences of climate change in Brazil if the projections of 345 scientists who make up the Brazilian Panel on Climate Change (PBMC) prove true.They predict that if present trends in greenhouse gas emissions continue, average temperatures in Brazil will be 3\u00ba-6\u00baC higher by 2100 than they were at the end of the 20th century.Rainfall patterns could change drastically, increasing by up to 30% in the south and south-east of the country, while diminishing by up to 40% in the north and north-east.The forecasts, based on research over the past six years, are contained in a report that provides the most complete diagnosis yet of the future tendencies of the Brazilian climate.The report will be presented at Brazil's first national conference on global climate change, to be held in S\u00e3o Paulo from 9-13 September and organised by the publicly-funded S\u00e3o Paulo Research Foundation (FAPESP). The data will then be included in the fifth report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), to be released two weeks later.The changes in temperature and rainfall will not be confined to Brazil, the largest country in South America, but will also affect neighbouring countries.\"With the exception of Chile's central and southern coast, where the last decades have seen a cooling, there will be a rise in temperature in all the other regions of South America,\" says Jose Marengo, a climate scientist at Brazil's National Institute for Space Research (INPE), who uses regional climate models to develop projections for the future.\"There is a feeling that the seasons have become a bit crazy, with more frequent extremes of climate.\"Tornados, once a rare occurrence, will become more frequent. Big and medium-sized cities will become hotter, with altered rain patterns. Rainfall in the Amazon region and in the semi-arid caatinga area of the north-east could fall by 40%, whereas in the south and south-east it could increase by 30%.For the cerrado savanna region of the central plateau, which has become a major cereal growing area, and the wetlands of the Pantanal, climate models also indicate significant changes, although the reliability of these projections is lower.All these changes will have a dramatic effect on harvests in one of the world's major food producing countries, but Brazil's farmers have so far shown little awareness of the problems in store, and consequently have not begun to adapt to the changing climate. Monocultures continue to expand, advancing into the Amazon region and taking over the cerrado.\"We must act now to avoid a worsening situation,\" warns Eduardo Assad, one of the PBMC researchers, who works for Embrapa, the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation.Suggested measures include investing intensively in mixed agricultural systems, and abandoning the practice of monoculture. Farmers should also increase the biological fixation of nitrogen, reduce the use of pesticides (since 2008, Brazil has been the world's biggest consumer), and increase the rotation of crops.\"The knowledge to do all this already exists, but we need stronger government guidance [for farmers],\" Assad warns. \"We must increase productivity in the mid-west, south-east and south to avoid the destruction of the Amazon. The reorganisation of Brazil's rural space is urgent.\"Antonio Magalh\u00e3es, adviser to the government's Centre for Strategic Studies and Management in Science, Technology and Innovation, also believes that agricultural, industrial and urban policies must be changed to include concerns with sustainability and extreme climate events such as rainstorms and droughts. \"We must widen the debate and overcome institutional rigidity, resistances and short-term interests.\"Crop losses are already being noted. \"Since 2000, we have seen a fall in productivity in some regions, principally in coffee, soy and maize,\" Assad says.Soy will be the most affected. By the end of 2013, Brazil is expected to overtake the US to become the world's major producer, but that position will be hard to sustain if the expected effects of climate change kick in.\"Even if the amount of rain stays the same, soil humidity will fall, because the rise in average temperatures will increase evaporation,\" Magalh\u00e3es warns.This will affect regions, such as the semi-arid north-east, where lack of water is a constant. The productivity of basic crops such as maize, beans, cotton, cassava and rice will suffer, leading to a drop in income in the region that is already Brazil's most backward in terms of social indicators intensifying poverty.The federal government's successful poverty reduction programme, Bolsa Familia, will not be enough to stop a renewal of migration from the rural area to the cities, worsening infrastructure problems related to housing, transport and sanitation.The PBMC report foresees that climate change in Brazil will also bring an increase in fungal diseases and pests, caused by the rise of CO\u00b2 levels in the air and ultraviolet B radiation. In addition to cereals, fruit crops such as banana, mango and grape will be hit.The report also says that more, and more intense, episodes of flooding and drought could alter the volume of the rivers and affect the supply of water to dam reservoirs. Hydropower accounts for well over half of Brazil's energy.Biodiversity will be badly affected, including that of aquatic environments. Some biomes, characterised by a dominant vegetation, have already lost large areas because of intensive agriculture \u2212 the cerrado has lost 47% and the caatinga 44% \u2212 and it is now questionable whether their ecological equilibrium can be restored.In the cities, where more than 85% of Brazilians now live, there will be a greater risk of mudslides and worse flooding, while many of the major cities \u2212 such as Rio, Salvador and Recife \u2212 are on the coast, and therefore subject to a possible rise in ocean levels.The researchers want their report to be used to guide the drawing up and implementation of public policies for climate change adaptation and mitigation, as well as to help companies in their future planning.The report, the first by the PBMC, also marks Brazil's acceptance by the IPCC as a nation supplying projections on a planetary scale. This is because it has developed its own climate simulation model, the Brazilian Earth System Model (BESM) \u2212 the only country in the southern hemisphere to do so.The establishment of the BESM has enabled the scientists to reconstruct recent occurrences of the El Ni\u00f1o climate phenomenon \u2212 caused by abnormal heating up of the surface waters of the equatorial Pacific, which affects the rainfall regime in a large part of the planet \u2212 and simulate the effects of future El Ni\u00f1os.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Climate change", "Food security", "Food", "Agriculture", "Farming", "Climate change", "Environment"], "title": "Brazil faces drop in crops"},{"date": "2013-07-25T02:54:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Pope Francis entered political waters on Wednesday with a sharply worded condemnation of moves to legalise drug use.His comments, which were made during a visit to a rehabilitation centre in Brazil, run counter to a growing movement in Latin America to liberalise sales of marijuana and other narcotics following decades of a murderous and largely ineffectual war against drugs in the region.\"A reduction in the spread and influence of drug addiction will not be achieved by a liberalisation of drug use, as is currently being proposed in various parts of Latin America,\" the pontiff said. \"Rather it is necessary to confront the problems underlying the use of these drugs, by promoting greater justice, educating young people in the values that build up life in society, accompanying those in difficulty and giving them hope for the future.\"The pope was visiting the St Francis of Assisi hospital \u2013 named after the saint whose name the Argentine adopted as pontiff \u2013 in Rio de Janeiro on his first full day of activities since arriving in Brazil.\u00a0After listening to stories of addicts undergoing treatment, Francis launched an uncompromising attack on the \"dealers of death\" who sell drugs. \"The scourge of drug-trafficking that favours violence and sows the seeds of suffering and death requires of society as a whole an act of courage,\" he said.The pope's words cut to the heart of one of the biggest problems facing Latin America, a region that supplies all of the world's cocaine and has long suffered murderous conflicts between rival trafficking gangs and anti-narcotics security forces.Government leaders in several countries including Colombia, Bolivia, Ecuador and Guatemala have appealed for a softer line on drugs, arguing that the current tough policy has failed to reduce demand. Next mont, Uruguay's Congress will note on a proposal to decriminalise sales of marijuana in a move that the country's president, Jose Mujica, says is aimed at undermining illegal traffickers.Francis, however, said the treatment hospital was a \"shrine to human suffering\" that emphasised the need to confront the scourge of drugs through education, justice and stronger social values.\u00a0His message may well be underlined on Thursday when the pope is due visit a favela slum that was recently notorious for drug addiction and gang battles.Earlier on Wednesday Francis urged Catholics to resist the \"ephemeral idols\" of money, power, success and pleasure during his first mass in Brazil. He made no direct mention of the inequality and corruption that have sparked nationwide protests.In a sermon to a congregation of thousands at the Basilica of the National Shrine of Our Lady Aparecida, the pontiff appealed to the faithful to focus on non-material values of spiritualism, generosity, solidarity and perseverance.\"Let us never lose hope! Let us never allow it to die in our hearts!\" the pope said in a message that appeared to be aimed at the widespread consumerism that the Vatican has blamed for a decline in spirituality, rather than the specific individuals and institutions targeted by demonstrators in recent weeks.Francis arrived in a khaki-coloured military helicopter and boarded an open-top popemobile to cheers from a crowd of tens of thousands who braved winter rains for several hours so they could watch on two giant screens outside the basilica. Flanked by a dozen security officials on the short journey from the helipad, the pope experienced no repeat of the chaotic scenes during his arrival on Monday, when his vehicle took a wrong turn and was held up by crowds who pressed up against his car. Rain also appeared to have dampened some of the enthusiasm. The crowds \u2013 many carrying umbrellas \u2013 were a dozen or so deep and kept at a distance by security barriers.Vatican officials say the pontiff asked for the mass at the basilica, which is 160 miles (260km) from his base in Rio, to be added to his schedule. Built in 1955 with a capacity of 40,000, the Basilica of the National Shrine of Our Lady Aparecida \u2013 the principal patroness of Brazil and a unifying figure for many in the nation's Catholic Church. It is the site of pilgrimage for millions every year who flock to see an apparently dark-skinned statue of the Virgin Mary which, myth has it, was found in two parts by fishermen in 1717.Francis appeared moved to tears as he said a prayer before the statue. He had visited the site five years earlier at a conference of bishops which helped to raise his standing in the church.Underscoring the emphasis on humility, hope and simplicity that have become central themes of his papacy, Francis warned that almost everyone was attracted to wealth and pleasure.\"Often a growing sense of loneliness and emptiness in the hearts of many people leads them to seek satisfaction in these ephemeral idols,\" he said, speaking in Portuguese from a modern marble pulpit.Professor Padre Erico Hammes of the Pontif\u00edcia Universidade of Rio Grande do Sul said Francis's direct and simple speaking style was in marked contrast to the baroque language of his two predecessors. \"Pope Francis is taking a populist approach to religion, successfully bringing everyday experience back into the limelight of Catholicism,\" Hammes said.Despite concerns from the Brazilian hosts, the pope insisted that his trip should go ahead largely as planned with an open-top \u2013 rather than a bulletproof \u2013 popemobile and a stop at a favela that was until recently notorious for conflicts between rival gangs. On Wednesday afternoon he was due to visit a drug rehabilitation centre.This visit comes during a nationwide wave of social protests. A small explosive device was found in Aparecida on Sunday but police and the Vatican said it was unlikely to have constituted a threat to the pope or visiting pilgrims. After the pontiff's arrival in Rio de Janeiro on Monday violent clashes broke out between demonstrators and riot police, who used rubber bullets, teargas and water cannon to disperse crowds close to where the pope had been meeting the country's president, Dilma Rousseff.Several more protests are planned this week including three related directly to the pope's visit, according to Anonymous social networks that have been calling people to the streets.Following a meeting to review how the trip was going, Vatican spokesman Father Federico Lombardi said one change had been made: for Francis to ride in a closed car from Rio airport to the drug treatment hospital he visited on his return from Aparecida.", "tags": ["Pope Francis", "Religion", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "The papacy", "World news", "Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Pope in Brazil warns against legalising drugs"},{"date": "2013-12-04T23:23:33Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "World Cup courts are likely to be established at next year's tournament in Brazil as organisers address the country's high crime rate and brace for the possible return of the mass demonstrations that overshadowed the Confederations Cup this summer.Although the rallies, which brought more than a million people on to the streets this year, were largely peaceful, the host nation said it will establish exclusion zones around stadiums and step up intelligence-gathering operations aimed at preventing violent protest.\"We have boosted the gathering process to prevent demonstrations during large-scale events, to gather relevant information to put in place whatever measures are required to prevent violent demonstrations,\" said Andre Rodrigues, special adviser for major events at the Ministry of Justice. He said the creation of dedicated courts has also been proposed by national, state and city level governments.It as yet unclear what powers World Cup courts would have, but at the South African World Cup in 2010, similar bodies were established to fast-track judicial proceedings despite concerns of rushed justice. They dealt with cases ranging for robberies of visiting fans and assault to ambush marketing in contravention of Fifa's regulations.For South Africa, one of the chief goals of this exercise was to offset concerns about its high crime levels. This is a problem shared by Brazil, which has some of the world's worst rates for murder and armed robbery. Last year, there were 27 homicides for every 100,000 inhabitants, according to the health ministry, compared with 1 per 100,000 in the UK and 5 per 100,000 in the US.As many of the killings are associated with drug traffickers, Rio de Janeiro has taken exceptional measures in recent years to remove armed gangs from favelas near tourist areas and World Cup sites. In a process known as \"pacification\", it has already sent in heavily armed troops and paramilitary police to regain control of 36 communities. Four more such campaigns are expected before the World Cup.Police in charge of the operation closest to the England base camp in S\u00e3o Conrado insist the strategy has been a success. \"I don't think there will be extra crime because of the World Cup,\" Major Pricilla de Oliveira Azevedo, who heads the pacification program in the city's biggest favela, Rocinha, told the Guardian. \"It's not a big deal for us. In fact, I'm so wrapped up in this work that sometimes I forget that the tournament is about to take place.\"However, there are still sporadic gunfights in this and other communities and there have been worrying signs in recent months that the improvements of recent years may be reversing. The persistent threat of crime was also apparent last month, when dozens of holidaymakers on the beach were the victims of an \"arrastao\", a wave of thefts by more than a dozen young boys. The country's football violence also makes English hooliganism seem tame. Clashes between rival \"organizado\" fan groups can be murderous. By one estimate, 155 people have been killed in such attacks since 1988. Murders are also not unknown on the field of play. Earlier this year, a referee in the northern state of Maranh\u00e3o stabbed a dissenting player to death, and was then decapitated by the crowd. At a national level, however, Brazil's fans have a far more benign reputation, partly because ticket prices and travel costs draw a more middle-class, less passionate crowd. Crowd violence inside the grounds is not considered a major threat during the World Cup.Security forces have trained for the possiblity of an organised assault, but that too looks unlikely. There is no history of attacks by drug cartels on international events, despite rumours that the biggest gang in S\u00e3o Paulo \u2013 the First Capital Command (known by its Portuguese acronym PCC) \u2013 may expand their long-running war against the police, possibly in conjunction with Rio's leading cartel, the Red Command. Similarly, Brazil is not known as a terrorist target.Nonetheless, the authorities will deploy anti-aircraft guns around World Cup stadiums to prevent a 9-11 type assault. The defence minister, Celso Amorim, said the 1,400 troops dispatched to each stadium would also be equipped to deal with chemical, biological and nuclear attacks. Tens of thousands of police will also be on duty, many in riot gear following the unexpectedly large demonstrations that took place in June.Since then the protests have dwindled in number, but there have been several small, violent clashes between police \u2013 who have often been trigger happy with rubber bullets and tear gas \u2013 and \"Black Bloc\" agitators.Protest organisers are cautious about the prospects of large demonstrations next year, but they say the World Cup is a possible target because it symbolises many of the problems that brought people on to the streets in June: corruption, inequality, police violence, poor public services, forced evictions and wasteful spending on stadiums.\"These issues are far from being resolved. In other words, the possibility of protests always exists,\" said Demian Castro, who is a member of the Popular Committee, which organised the demonstrations.Other activists, journalists and commentators are certain there will be more rallies next June, but the questions is how large and how violent they will be.\"The World Cup is more than a target, it's a moment in Brazilian history. It's about using what the World Cup brings and hacking that to show the world what's is really happening in Brazil,\" said Rafael Vilela, a journalist with the Media Ninja collective, which has been on the frontline of the protests.He told the Guardian that the government had already begun arresting activists and predicted that the government would implement new laws to outlaw the \"Black Bloc\" as a terrorist group. \"They're not terrorists \u2013 they're really angry about the problems we have in Brazil,\" he said.Tost\u00e3o, one of the 1970 World Cup winning squad, also expects tense protests. \"The demonstrations are correct and just. They raise concerns about the resources that Brazil has spent on hosting the tournament,\" he said. \"There will probably be a repeat of them next year, but they will not take over the World Cup.\"Juca Kfouri, one of Brazil's leading commentators, said the outside world is likely to get an image of Brazil that will be very different from that of carnival, the beach and beautiful women.\"There is a false idea of Brazilian happiness that is based on a wrong assumption that Brazilians do not claim ownership,\" he said. \"But next year, there will be big parties inside the stadiums and big protests outside.\"", "tags": ["World Cup 2014", "Brazil", "Protest", "World Cup", "Football", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil plans 'World Cup courts'"},{"date": "2013-12-04T23:23:33Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "World Cup courts are likely to be established at next year's tournament in Brazil as organisers address the country's high crime rate and brace for the possible return of the mass demonstrations that overshadowed the Confederations Cup this summer.Although the rallies, which brought more than a million people on to the streets this year, were largely peaceful, the host nation said it will establish exclusion zones around stadiums and step up intelligence-gathering operations aimed at preventing violent protest.\"We have boosted the gathering process to prevent demonstrations during large-scale events, to gather relevant information to put in place whatever measures are required to prevent violent demonstrations,\" said Andre Rodrigues, special adviser for major events at the Ministry of Justice. He said the creation of dedicated courts has also been proposed by national, state and city level governments.It as yet unclear what powers World Cup courts would have, but at the South African World Cup in 2010, similar bodies were established to fast-track judicial proceedings despite concerns of rushed justice. They dealt with cases ranging for robberies of visiting fans and assault to ambush marketing in contravention of Fifa's regulations.For South Africa, one of the chief goals of this exercise was to offset concerns about its high crime levels. This is a problem shared by Brazil, which has some of the world's worst rates for murder and armed robbery. Last year, there were 27 homicides for every 100,000 inhabitants, according to the health ministry, compared with 1 per 100,000 in the UK and 5 per 100,000 in the US.As many of the killings are associated with drug traffickers, Rio de Janeiro has taken exceptional measures in recent years to remove armed gangs from favelas near tourist areas and World Cup sites. In a process known as \"pacification\", it has already sent in heavily armed troops and paramilitary police to regain control of 36 communities. Four more such campaigns are expected before the World Cup.Police in charge of the operation closest to the England base camp in S\u00e3o Conrado insist the strategy has been a success. \"I don't think there will be extra crime because of the World Cup,\" Major Pricilla de Oliveira Azevedo, who heads the pacification program in the city's biggest favela, Rocinha, told the Guardian. \"It's not a big deal for us. In fact, I'm so wrapped up in this work that sometimes I forget that the tournament is about to take place.\"However, there are still sporadic gunfights in this and other communities and there have been worrying signs in recent months that the improvements of recent years may be reversing. The persistent threat of crime was also apparent last month, when dozens of holidaymakers on the beach were the victims of an \"arrastao\", a wave of thefts by more than a dozen young boys. The country's football violence also makes English hooliganism seem tame. Clashes between rival \"organizado\" fan groups can be murderous. By one estimate, 155 people have been killed in such attacks since 1988. Murders are also not unknown on the field of play. Earlier this year, a referee in the northern state of Maranh\u00e3o stabbed a dissenting player to death, and was then decapitated by the crowd. At a national level, however, Brazil's fans have a far more benign reputation, partly because ticket prices and travel costs draw a more middle-class, less passionate crowd. Crowd violence inside the grounds is not considered a major threat during the World Cup.Security forces have trained for the possiblity of an organised assault, but that too looks unlikely. There is no history of attacks by drug cartels on international events, despite rumours that the biggest gang in S\u00e3o Paulo \u2013 the First Capital Command (known by its Portuguese acronym PCC) \u2013 may expand their long-running war against the police, possibly in conjunction with Rio's leading cartel, the Red Command. Similarly, Brazil is not known as a terrorist target.Nonetheless, the authorities will deploy anti-aircraft guns around World Cup stadiums to prevent a 9-11 type assault. The defence minister, Celso Amorim, said the 1,400 troops dispatched to each stadium would also be equipped to deal with chemical, biological and nuclear attacks. Tens of thousands of police will also be on duty, many in riot gear following the unexpectedly large demonstrations that took place in June.Since then the protests have dwindled in number, but there have been several small, violent clashes between police \u2013 who have often been trigger happy with rubber bullets and tear gas \u2013 and \"Black Bloc\" agitators.Protest organisers are cautious about the prospects of large demonstrations next year, but they say the World Cup is a possible target because it symbolises many of the problems that brought people on to the streets in June: corruption, inequality, police violence, poor public services, forced evictions and wasteful spending on stadiums.\"These issues are far from being resolved. In other words, the possibility of protests always exists,\" said Demian Castro, who is a member of the Popular Committee, which organised the demonstrations.Other activists, journalists and commentators are certain there will be more rallies next June, but the questions is how large and how violent they will be.\"The World Cup is more than a target, it's a moment in Brazilian history. It's about using what the World Cup brings and hacking that to show the world what's is really happening in Brazil,\" said Rafael Vilela, a journalist with the Media Ninja collective, which has been on the frontline of the protests.He told the Guardian that the government had already begun arresting activists and predicted that the government would implement new laws to outlaw the \"Black Bloc\" as a terrorist group. \"They're not terrorists \u2013 they're really angry about the problems we have in Brazil,\" he said.Tost\u00e3o, one of the 1970 World Cup winning squad, also expects tense protests. \"The demonstrations are correct and just. They raise concerns about the resources that Brazil has spent on hosting the tournament,\" he said. \"There will probably be a repeat of them next year, but they will not take over the World Cup.\"Juca Kfouri, one of Brazil's leading commentators, said the outside world is likely to get an image of Brazil that will be very different from that of carnival, the beach and beautiful women.\"There is a false idea of Brazilian happiness that is based on a wrong assumption that Brazilians do not claim ownership,\" he said. \"But next year, there will be big parties inside the stadiums and big protests outside.\"", "tags": ["World Cup 2014", "Brazil", "Protest", "World Cup", "Football", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil plans 'World Cup courts'"},{"date": "2013-12-20T17:35:47Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When Chico Mendes was gunned down in the Amazon, the two policemen who were supposed to protect him were playing dominoes at his kitchen table. It was 22 December 1988.The officers had been sent to the union activist's small wooden home in Xapuri after he received death threats from landowners, who were enraged by his campaign to prevent forest clearance. But the police dropped their guard when Mendes stepped out to have a shower in the backyard. A single bullet from a .22 rifle killed him instantly. The assassin, a rancher named Darcy Alves, said \"it was like shooting a jaguar\".This weekend, Brazil will mark the 25th anniversary of that murder, which far from killing off the forest conservation campaign has boosted its profile throughout the country and across the world, influencing a generation of conservationists and policymakers. Mendes is now a symbol of the global environment movement.The Brazilian government has declared him Patron of the Brazilian Environment. Institutions have been named after him, including the main state agency in charge of conservation \u2013 the Instituto Chico Mendes de Conserva\u00e7\u00e3o da Biodiversidade. After his death, Mendes's home state of Acre in the western Amazon has pioneered the establishment of extractive reserves.Mendes's story has been the subject of books and films. In recognition of his achievements, there will be memorial ceremonies, documentaries and discussions about his legacy this weekend. Many of his ideas live on through associates, notably Marina Silva, who became environment minister and put in place Amazon protection systems that are credited with an impressive fall in the rate of deforestation until recently.But the celebrations will be tempered by the resurgent influence of the landowners' lobby, a recent sharp uptick in Amazon clearance and renewed questions about the Brazilian government's willingness to protect forest workers and conserve the biodiverse habitat on which they depend.Mendes would have recognised the destructive forces at work, though contrary to his reputation as an environmentalist, he was first and foremost a union activist campaigning on behalf of rubber tappers whose way of life was being decimated along with the loss of the Amazon. Mendes had personal experience of the consequences.Born in 1944, Francisco Alves Mendes Filho \u2013 as he was christened \u2013 was the son of a soldier in the \"Rubber Army\", the 50,000 men recruited in 1943 from Brazil's impoverished north-east and shipped to the Amazon to tap rubber for the allied war effort. With Malaya occupied by the Japanese, the US was desperate for rubber, and Brazil promised to revive its once booming rubber industry to meet the need. The tappers were largely abandoned to their own fate, many dying from disease or attacks by wild animals. When the war ended, government promises of compensation and tickets home were forgotten and many, including Mendes's father, never returned.Growing up in the forest, Chico began tapping as a child. Influenced by priests of the progressive Liberation Theology movement and former members of the Communist party, he helped found the Acre branch of the PT, the Workers' party. As president of the Xapuri tappers' union, he set up a national organisation, bringing the tappers' fight to save the forest to global attention.American environmentalists took him to Washington to persuade the World Bank, the Inter-American Bank and Congress that cattle projects in the Amazon, which covers an area bigger than western Europe, should not be funded. As an alternative, he proposed the creation of extractive reserves \u2013 protected areas that would allow public land to be managed by local communities, with rights to harvest forest products. It marked an important step forward for the conservation community.In 1987 Mendes won the UN's Global 500 award in recognition of his environmental achievements, although he saw himself primarily as a campaigner for a fairer society. As he said: \"At first I thought I was fighting to save rubber trees, then I thought I was fighting to save the Amazon rainforest. Now I realise I am fighting for humanity.\"His opponents were cattle ranchers, who had been moving into the Amazon since the 1970s when they were encouraged by the military who ruled Brazil and financed by official banks. After the dictatorship ended in 1985, these landowners set up the Rural Democratic Union \u2013 better known by its Portuguese initials UDR \u2013 to thwart the land reforms promised by the government and intimidate unionists and conservation activists. Beatings and killings were common in the remote and largely lawless Amazon region, which is often described as Brazil's wild west.Mendes was neither the first nor the last to lose his life for standing up to landowners. Since 2002, Brazil has accounted for half the killings worldwide of conservation activists, according to a survey last year by Global Witness. Some victims, such as American nun Dorothy Stang who was murdered in 2005, have become martyrs. Others like Jos\u00e9 Cl\u00e1udio Ribeiro da Silva and his wife Maria do Espirito Santo \u2013 who were shot as they got out of a car near a landless workers camp in 2011 \u2013 or Mouth Organ John \u2013 who was killed in Para in 2012 after he reported on the illegal logging \u2013 make the headlines for a few days. Many other killings, particularly of indigenous land rights activists, go largely unreported in the international media. Dozens more activists are thought to have fled or gone into hiding.Mendes was an obvious target. As well as lobbying successfully to end international financing for Amazon clearance, he organised the rubber tappers in non-violent resistance. Men, women and children would form human barricades known as \"empates\" to prevent the bulldozers from tearing down trees. His success made him many enemies and he knew he was a marked man.His killer was from a family of cattle ranchers, whose efforts to expand their pastures was held up by the empates. Darcy Alves, 22, and his father Darly were convicted in 1990 and jailed for 19 years. Although they are now free, former associates of Mendes said the assassination backfired. \"Those who killed Chico got it wrong. They thought by killing him, the tappers' movement would be demobilised, but they made him immortal. His ideas still have a huge influence,\" said Gomercindo Rodriquez, who came to Xapuri as a young agronomist in 1986, and later became Mendes's trusted adviser.Mendes wanted the forest to be used sustainably rather than cut off from economic activity (as some environmentalists wanted) or cut down (as the farmers wanted). He proposed the establishment of extractive reserves for tappers, Brazil nut collectors and others who harvested nature in a balanced way. After his death the first of many such reserves in Brazil, the Chico Mendes Extractive Reserve, was created, covering 1m hectares of forest around Xapuri.After years of decline, the demand for latex from a local condom factory has boosted the price of rubber, and many tappers, who had turned to raising cattle, have returned to the forest. \"This is Chico's legacy,\" said Gomercindo. \"The extractive reserves have meant the preservation of the forest \u2013 all around it has been destroyed for cattle pasture. They have become an example, they now exist in other areas of Brazil.\"The Chico Mendes Reserve has electricity and schools. Many students have graduated from university. Some tappers now have motorbikes and cars and some have become forest guides. Trees are sustainably harvested, and there is an eco-lodge. Building on this model, 68 extractive reserves have been established in the Brazilian Amazon, covering more than 136,000 sq km.The Brazilian Space Institute INPE also started satellite monitoring of deforestation the year that Mendes was killed. The timing was a coincidence, but the effectiveness of this program has been heavily influenced by those who were inspired by Mendes. After forest clearance peaked in 2004, the environment minister Marina da Silva, another child of a rubber tapping family and former colleague of Mendes, put in place a more rigorous system of monitoring, penalties and incentives that has resulted in an 80% slowdown in the rate of deforestation.But this progress is at risk as power in Brazil moves towards big landowners and away from the rural workers, conservationists and indigenous groups that Mendes fought for.Last year, president Dilma Rousseff \u2013 who depends on the rural lobby for support in Congress \u2013 signed into law a change in the forest code reform of the forest code, which diluted environmental protection of the Amazon and other areas of biodiversity. The landowners' bloc in the legislature, which includes former members of the UDR, is now pushing for revision of other environmental laws and policies, including the rights of indigenous peoples guaranteed by the constitution of 1988 and the Brazilian National Protected Areas System.In a sign of the worrying trend, satellite data showed a 28% rise in deforestation this year, breaking a five-year trend of decline.Ahead of this weekend's anniversary, landowners in Congress vetoed a move to give Mendes's name to the room where the parliamentary agriculture committee meets. But conservation groups have vowed to continue his struggle.\"His legacy is an example that should guide all of us in keeping nature in our minds as a solution and a means to constructing a better world for all\", said Claudio Maretti, head of WWF's Amazon Initiative \u2013 one of many international organisations that will show their respects for Brazil's Patron of the Environment at this weekend's anniversary.", "tags": ["Amazon rainforest", "Brazil", "Deforestation", "Trees and forests", "Environment", "Americas", "World news", "Activism", "Protest"], "title": "Brazil salutes Chico Mendes 25 years after his murder"},{"date": "2013-12-04T23:23:33Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "World Cup courts are likely to be established at next year's tournament in Brazil as organisers address the country's high crime rate and brace for the possible return of the mass demonstrations that overshadowed the Confederations Cup this summer.Although the rallies, which brought more than a million people on to the streets this year, were largely peaceful, the host nation said it will establish exclusion zones around stadiums and step up intelligence-gathering operations aimed at preventing violent protest.\"We have boosted the gathering process to prevent demonstrations during large-scale events, to gather relevant information to put in place whatever measures are required to prevent violent demonstrations,\" said Andre Rodrigues, special adviser for major events at the Ministry of Justice. He said the creation of dedicated courts has also been proposed by national, state and city level governments.It as yet unclear what powers World Cup courts would have, but at the South African World Cup in 2010, similar bodies were established to fast-track judicial proceedings despite concerns of rushed justice. They dealt with cases ranging for robberies of visiting fans and assault to ambush marketing in contravention of Fifa's regulations.For South Africa, one of the chief goals of this exercise was to offset concerns about its high crime levels. This is a problem shared by Brazil, which has some of the world's worst rates for murder and armed robbery. Last year, there were 27 homicides for every 100,000 inhabitants, according to the health ministry, compared with 1 per 100,000 in the UK and 5 per 100,000 in the US.As many of the killings are associated with drug traffickers, Rio de Janeiro has taken exceptional measures in recent years to remove armed gangs from favelas near tourist areas and World Cup sites. In a process known as \"pacification\", it has already sent in heavily armed troops and paramilitary police to regain control of 36 communities. Four more such campaigns are expected before the World Cup.Police in charge of the operation closest to the England base camp in S\u00e3o Conrado insist the strategy has been a success. \"I don't think there will be extra crime because of the World Cup,\" Major Pricilla de Oliveira Azevedo, who heads the pacification program in the city's biggest favela, Rocinha, told the Guardian. \"It's not a big deal for us. In fact, I'm so wrapped up in this work that sometimes I forget that the tournament is about to take place.\"However, there are still sporadic gunfights in this and other communities and there have been worrying signs in recent months that the improvements of recent years may be reversing. The persistent threat of crime was also apparent last month, when dozens of holidaymakers on the beach were the victims of an \"arrastao\", a wave of thefts by more than a dozen young boys. The country's football violence also makes English hooliganism seem tame. Clashes between rival \"organizado\" fan groups can be murderous. By one estimate, 155 people have been killed in such attacks since 1988. Murders are also not unknown on the field of play. Earlier this year, a referee in the northern state of Maranh\u00e3o stabbed a dissenting player to death, and was then decapitated by the crowd. At a national level, however, Brazil's fans have a far more benign reputation, partly because ticket prices and travel costs draw a more middle-class, less passionate crowd. Crowd violence inside the grounds is not considered a major threat during the World Cup.Security forces have trained for the possiblity of an organised assault, but that too looks unlikely. There is no history of attacks by drug cartels on international events, despite rumours that the biggest gang in S\u00e3o Paulo \u2013 the First Capital Command (known by its Portuguese acronym PCC) \u2013 may expand their long-running war against the police, possibly in conjunction with Rio's leading cartel, the Red Command. Similarly, Brazil is not known as a terrorist target.Nonetheless, the authorities will deploy anti-aircraft guns around World Cup stadiums to prevent a 9-11 type assault. The defence minister, Celso Amorim, said the 1,400 troops dispatched to each stadium would also be equipped to deal with chemical, biological and nuclear attacks. Tens of thousands of police will also be on duty, many in riot gear following the unexpectedly large demonstrations that took place in June.Since then the protests have dwindled in number, but there have been several small, violent clashes between police \u2013 who have often been trigger happy with rubber bullets and tear gas \u2013 and \"Black Bloc\" agitators.Protest organisers are cautious about the prospects of large demonstrations next year, but they say the World Cup is a possible target because it symbolises many of the problems that brought people on to the streets in June: corruption, inequality, police violence, poor public services, forced evictions and wasteful spending on stadiums.\"These issues are far from being resolved. In other words, the possibility of protests always exists,\" said Demian Castro, who is a member of the Popular Committee, which organised the demonstrations.Other activists, journalists and commentators are certain there will be more rallies next June, but the questions is how large and how violent they will be.\"The World Cup is more than a target, it's a moment in Brazilian history. It's about using what the World Cup brings and hacking that to show the world what's is really happening in Brazil,\" said Rafael Vilela, a journalist with the Media Ninja collective, which has been on the frontline of the protests.He told the Guardian that the government had already begun arresting activists and predicted that the government would implement new laws to outlaw the \"Black Bloc\" as a terrorist group. \"They're not terrorists \u2013 they're really angry about the problems we have in Brazil,\" he said.Tost\u00e3o, one of the 1970 World Cup winning squad, also expects tense protests. \"The demonstrations are correct and just. They raise concerns about the resources that Brazil has spent on hosting the tournament,\" he said. \"There will probably be a repeat of them next year, but they will not take over the World Cup.\"Juca Kfouri, one of Brazil's leading commentators, said the outside world is likely to get an image of Brazil that will be very different from that of carnival, the beach and beautiful women.\"There is a false idea of Brazilian happiness that is based on a wrong assumption that Brazilians do not claim ownership,\" he said. \"But next year, there will be big parties inside the stadiums and big protests outside.\"", "tags": ["World Cup 2014", "Brazil", "Protest", "World Cup", "Football", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil plans 'World Cup courts'"},{"date": "2013-12-20T17:35:47Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When Chico Mendes was gunned down in the Amazon, the two policemen who were supposed to protect him were playing dominoes at his kitchen table. It was 22 December 1988.The officers had been sent to the union activist's small wooden home in Xapuri after he received death threats from landowners, who were enraged by his campaign to prevent forest clearance. But the police dropped their guard when Mendes stepped out to have a shower in the backyard. A single bullet from a .22 rifle killed him instantly. The assassin, a rancher named Darcy Alves, said \"it was like shooting a jaguar\".This weekend, Brazil will mark the 25th anniversary of that murder, which far from killing off the forest conservation campaign has boosted its profile throughout the country and across the world, influencing a generation of conservationists and policymakers. Mendes is now a symbol of the global environment movement.The Brazilian government has declared him Patron of the Brazilian Environment. Institutions have been named after him, including the main state agency in charge of conservation \u2013 the Instituto Chico Mendes de Conserva\u00e7\u00e3o da Biodiversidade. After his death, Mendes's home state of Acre in the western Amazon has pioneered the establishment of extractive reserves.Mendes's story has been the subject of books and films. In recognition of his achievements, there will be memorial ceremonies, documentaries and discussions about his legacy this weekend. Many of his ideas live on through associates, notably Marina Silva, who became environment minister and put in place Amazon protection systems that are credited with an impressive fall in the rate of deforestation until recently.But the celebrations will be tempered by the resurgent influence of the landowners' lobby, a recent sharp uptick in Amazon clearance and renewed questions about the Brazilian government's willingness to protect forest workers and conserve the biodiverse habitat on which they depend.Mendes would have recognised the destructive forces at work, though contrary to his reputation as an environmentalist, he was first and foremost a union activist campaigning on behalf of rubber tappers whose way of life was being decimated along with the loss of the Amazon. Mendes had personal experience of the consequences.Born in 1944, Francisco Alves Mendes Filho \u2013 as he was christened \u2013 was the son of a soldier in the \"Rubber Army\", the 50,000 men recruited in 1943 from Brazil's impoverished north-east and shipped to the Amazon to tap rubber for the allied war effort. With Malaya occupied by the Japanese, the US was desperate for rubber, and Brazil promised to revive its once booming rubber industry to meet the need. The tappers were largely abandoned to their own fate, many dying from disease or attacks by wild animals. When the war ended, government promises of compensation and tickets home were forgotten and many, including Mendes's father, never returned.Growing up in the forest, Chico began tapping as a child. Influenced by priests of the progressive Liberation Theology movement and former members of the Communist party, he helped found the Acre branch of the PT, the Workers' party. As president of the Xapuri tappers' union, he set up a national organisation, bringing the tappers' fight to save the forest to global attention.American environmentalists took him to Washington to persuade the World Bank, the Inter-American Bank and Congress that cattle projects in the Amazon, which covers an area bigger than western Europe, should not be funded. As an alternative, he proposed the creation of extractive reserves \u2013 protected areas that would allow public land to be managed by local communities, with rights to harvest forest products. It marked an important step forward for the conservation community.In 1987 Mendes won the UN's Global 500 award in recognition of his environmental achievements, although he saw himself primarily as a campaigner for a fairer society. As he said: \"At first I thought I was fighting to save rubber trees, then I thought I was fighting to save the Amazon rainforest. Now I realise I am fighting for humanity.\"His opponents were cattle ranchers, who had been moving into the Amazon since the 1970s when they were encouraged by the military who ruled Brazil and financed by official banks. After the dictatorship ended in 1985, these landowners set up the Rural Democratic Union \u2013 better known by its Portuguese initials UDR \u2013 to thwart the land reforms promised by the government and intimidate unionists and conservation activists. Beatings and killings were common in the remote and largely lawless Amazon region, which is often described as Brazil's wild west.Mendes was neither the first nor the last to lose his life for standing up to landowners. Since 2002, Brazil has accounted for half the killings worldwide of conservation activists, according to a survey last year by Global Witness. Some victims, such as American nun Dorothy Stang who was murdered in 2005, have become martyrs. Others like Jos\u00e9 Cl\u00e1udio Ribeiro da Silva and his wife Maria do Espirito Santo \u2013 who were shot as they got out of a car near a landless workers camp in 2011 \u2013 or Mouth Organ John \u2013 who was killed in Para in 2012 after he reported on the illegal logging \u2013 make the headlines for a few days. Many other killings, particularly of indigenous land rights activists, go largely unreported in the international media. Dozens more activists are thought to have fled or gone into hiding.Mendes was an obvious target. As well as lobbying successfully to end international financing for Amazon clearance, he organised the rubber tappers in non-violent resistance. Men, women and children would form human barricades known as \"empates\" to prevent the bulldozers from tearing down trees. His success made him many enemies and he knew he was a marked man.His killer was from a family of cattle ranchers, whose efforts to expand their pastures was held up by the empates. Darcy Alves, 22, and his father Darly were convicted in 1990 and jailed for 19 years. Although they are now free, former associates of Mendes said the assassination backfired. \"Those who killed Chico got it wrong. They thought by killing him, the tappers' movement would be demobilised, but they made him immortal. His ideas still have a huge influence,\" said Gomercindo Rodriquez, who came to Xapuri as a young agronomist in 1986, and later became Mendes's trusted adviser.Mendes wanted the forest to be used sustainably rather than cut off from economic activity (as some environmentalists wanted) or cut down (as the farmers wanted). He proposed the establishment of extractive reserves for tappers, Brazil nut collectors and others who harvested nature in a balanced way. After his death the first of many such reserves in Brazil, the Chico Mendes Extractive Reserve, was created, covering 1m hectares of forest around Xapuri.After years of decline, the demand for latex from a local condom factory has boosted the price of rubber, and many tappers, who had turned to raising cattle, have returned to the forest. \"This is Chico's legacy,\" said Gomercindo. \"The extractive reserves have meant the preservation of the forest \u2013 all around it has been destroyed for cattle pasture. They have become an example, they now exist in other areas of Brazil.\"The Chico Mendes Reserve has electricity and schools. Many students have graduated from university. Some tappers now have motorbikes and cars and some have become forest guides. Trees are sustainably harvested, and there is an eco-lodge. Building on this model, 68 extractive reserves have been established in the Brazilian Amazon, covering more than 136,000 sq km.The Brazilian Space Institute INPE also started satellite monitoring of deforestation the year that Mendes was killed. The timing was a coincidence, but the effectiveness of this program has been heavily influenced by those who were inspired by Mendes. After forest clearance peaked in 2004, the environment minister Marina da Silva, another child of a rubber tapping family and former colleague of Mendes, put in place a more rigorous system of monitoring, penalties and incentives that has resulted in an 80% slowdown in the rate of deforestation.But this progress is at risk as power in Brazil moves towards big landowners and away from the rural workers, conservationists and indigenous groups that Mendes fought for.Last year, president Dilma Rousseff \u2013 who depends on the rural lobby for support in Congress \u2013 signed into law a change in the forest code reform of the forest code, which diluted environmental protection of the Amazon and other areas of biodiversity. The landowners' bloc in the legislature, which includes former members of the UDR, is now pushing for revision of other environmental laws and policies, including the rights of indigenous peoples guaranteed by the constitution of 1988 and the Brazilian National Protected Areas System.In a sign of the worrying trend, satellite data showed a 28% rise in deforestation this year, breaking a five-year trend of decline.Ahead of this weekend's anniversary, landowners in Congress vetoed a move to give Mendes's name to the room where the parliamentary agriculture committee meets. But conservation groups have vowed to continue his struggle.\"His legacy is an example that should guide all of us in keeping nature in our minds as a solution and a means to constructing a better world for all\", said Claudio Maretti, head of WWF's Amazon Initiative \u2013 one of many international organisations that will show their respects for Brazil's Patron of the Environment at this weekend's anniversary.", "tags": ["Amazon rainforest", "Brazil", "Deforestation", "Trees and forests", "Environment", "Americas", "World news", "Activism", "Protest"], "title": "Brazil salutes Chico Mendes 25 years after his murder"},{"date": "2013-12-20T12:45:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "America is a continent that is divided in three parts: Central, North and South. Yet, when people say \"America\" it is immediately clear that they don't mean the continent with 35 ethnically, culturally and linguistically diverse countries, they mean the United States of America. That might be where the aggressive envy many South Americans have towards the US starts: why do we have to be \"South Americans\" and people from the US get to be just Americans, no explanatory prefix required?But that's just the beginning of it.Brazil has been overwhelmingly influenced by American culture. We absorb the TV shows, the slang, the humour and even the dreams. I know a lot of people who learned English by watching Friends, laughing at Homer Simpson and listening to Britney Spears. It's a second culture that complements our own. That's not a bad thing: Brazilians admire American pop culture, the importance that is given to music, art and entertainment. In fact, a lot of us watch Family Guy instead of national productions because the jokes are so much funnier than any Brazilian comedy show. The United States isn't perfect, but there is a general consensus that it is better than my home country in many fundamental ways. It's common to see families going to Florida to do their yearly clothes, make-up and electronic shopping in December. The importation taxes in Brazil are much too high, and it is surprisingly more cost-effective to travel to the United States to buy a Wii U for the original price of $400, than the ridiculously inflated price it is being sold for here ($900, I kid you not). Brazil is actually known for selling the most expensive electronics in the world.Although the United States is seen as a deeply divided country politically, with many extremely conservative and outdated laws and views (this image is particularly true of southern states), there are states that are very liberal and are attractive to Brazilians. California and New York, in particular, are attractive to LGBT communities here, because of the acceptance they imagine is rampant. Having a pro-LGBT rights president is also a huge plus. While the United States is still seen by many as homophobic, misogynist, sexist and classist \u2013 these conditions are still worse in Brazil.But perhaps the biggest draw to the United States is the relative accountability of your political leaders. Barack Obama should be considered a national treasure. If the United States doesn't want him, we will take him. The man is not perfect, but at least he tries to improve the country and respects his people. Here in South America, politicians constantly embezzle money, are hardly ever held accountable for their crimes, and generally neglect the population. I don't know how much corruption goes on in American specifically, but I am willing to bet that it nowhere near as prevalent and blatant as in Brazil and many other South American countries.Of course, the US has a huge problem with the privacy invasion perpetrated by the NSA, as was revealed by this very publication. They have spied on world leaders, including Brazil's president. And while the US government attempts to dodge accountability, it was also revealed that Brazil's government has also been spying on the US and other countries' leaders. So it seems like the Brazilian government is also abusive in the name of \"national security\". In terms of political impact, it has definitely soured a usually smooth diplomatic relationship, but this hasn't really changed the opinions of the masses.The way the people are treated here, the constant misery we see in the streets, the violence and the government continually spitting in our faces by stealing public money \u2013  and giving priority to unnecessary international events \u2013 is more than many of us can bear. This is especially true when we are dominated and overwhelmed by the culture of a country that, while again, is not perfect, is definitely much more successful than ours. The negligence our population suffers is the reason why the view of America as an \"escape\" is held predominantly by the middle to upper class: the lower income population isn't exposed to American culture. They, too, deeply feel the leaders' abuse of power, but it is the middle to upper classes who have the resources needed to leave.It is for these reasons that Brazilians have aggressive envy of America, and why more privileged Brazilians escape to the US, be it via a yearly trip or permanent immigration. Though the problems of the United States are clear, the opportunities are much more attractive than in our own country and our neighbors'. We know that despite our potential, we can't get our act together \u2013 most of my extended family has escaped to first world countries, primarily to the US.Although the trend of escaping to the US existed before Obama's presidency, his leadership has convinced me and many others that our people deserve greater respect from our leaders. The accountability and pressure Obama is put under by the American people is, in and of itself, remarkable to us. So if you really don't want Barack Obama to be your president anymore, give him to us. We'll take him.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Barack Obama", "US news", "World news", "LGBT rights", "Surveillance", "NSA", "Retail industry", "US politics", "Governance"], "title": "If America doesn't want Obama, give him to Brazil | Nicole Froio"},{"date": "2013-12-04T23:23:33Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "World Cup courts are likely to be established at next year's tournament in Brazil as organisers address the country's high crime rate and brace for the possible return of the mass demonstrations that overshadowed the Confederations Cup this summer.Although the rallies, which brought more than a million people on to the streets this year, were largely peaceful, the host nation said it will establish exclusion zones around stadiums and step up intelligence-gathering operations aimed at preventing violent protest.\"We have boosted the gathering process to prevent demonstrations during large-scale events, to gather relevant information to put in place whatever measures are required to prevent violent demonstrations,\" said Andre Rodrigues, special adviser for major events at the Ministry of Justice. He said the creation of dedicated courts has also been proposed by national, state and city level governments.It as yet unclear what powers World Cup courts would have, but at the South African World Cup in 2010, similar bodies were established to fast-track judicial proceedings despite concerns of rushed justice. They dealt with cases ranging for robberies of visiting fans and assault to ambush marketing in contravention of Fifa's regulations.For South Africa, one of the chief goals of this exercise was to offset concerns about its high crime levels. This is a problem shared by Brazil, which has some of the world's worst rates for murder and armed robbery. Last year, there were 27 homicides for every 100,000 inhabitants, according to the health ministry, compared with 1 per 100,000 in the UK and 5 per 100,000 in the US.As many of the killings are associated with drug traffickers, Rio de Janeiro has taken exceptional measures in recent years to remove armed gangs from favelas near tourist areas and World Cup sites. In a process known as \"pacification\", it has already sent in heavily armed troops and paramilitary police to regain control of 36 communities. Four more such campaigns are expected before the World Cup.Police in charge of the operation closest to the England base camp in S\u00e3o Conrado insist the strategy has been a success. \"I don't think there will be extra crime because of the World Cup,\" Major Pricilla de Oliveira Azevedo, who heads the pacification program in the city's biggest favela, Rocinha, told the Guardian. \"It's not a big deal for us. In fact, I'm so wrapped up in this work that sometimes I forget that the tournament is about to take place.\"However, there are still sporadic gunfights in this and other communities and there have been worrying signs in recent months that the improvements of recent years may be reversing. The persistent threat of crime was also apparent last month, when dozens of holidaymakers on the beach were the victims of an \"arrastao\", a wave of thefts by more than a dozen young boys. The country's football violence also makes English hooliganism seem tame. Clashes between rival \"organizado\" fan groups can be murderous. By one estimate, 155 people have been killed in such attacks since 1988. Murders are also not unknown on the field of play. Earlier this year, a referee in the northern state of Maranh\u00e3o stabbed a dissenting player to death, and was then decapitated by the crowd. At a national level, however, Brazil's fans have a far more benign reputation, partly because ticket prices and travel costs draw a more middle-class, less passionate crowd. Crowd violence inside the grounds is not considered a major threat during the World Cup.Security forces have trained for the possiblity of an organised assault, but that too looks unlikely. There is no history of attacks by drug cartels on international events, despite rumours that the biggest gang in S\u00e3o Paulo \u2013 the First Capital Command (known by its Portuguese acronym PCC) \u2013 may expand their long-running war against the police, possibly in conjunction with Rio's leading cartel, the Red Command. Similarly, Brazil is not known as a terrorist target.Nonetheless, the authorities will deploy anti-aircraft guns around World Cup stadiums to prevent a 9-11 type assault. The defence minister, Celso Amorim, said the 1,400 troops dispatched to each stadium would also be equipped to deal with chemical, biological and nuclear attacks. Tens of thousands of police will also be on duty, many in riot gear following the unexpectedly large demonstrations that took place in June.Since then the protests have dwindled in number, but there have been several small, violent clashes between police \u2013 who have often been trigger happy with rubber bullets and tear gas \u2013 and \"Black Bloc\" agitators.Protest organisers are cautious about the prospects of large demonstrations next year, but they say the World Cup is a possible target because it symbolises many of the problems that brought people on to the streets in June: corruption, inequality, police violence, poor public services, forced evictions and wasteful spending on stadiums.\"These issues are far from being resolved. In other words, the possibility of protests always exists,\" said Demian Castro, who is a member of the Popular Committee, which organised the demonstrations.Other activists, journalists and commentators are certain there will be more rallies next June, but the questions is how large and how violent they will be.\"The World Cup is more than a target, it's a moment in Brazilian history. It's about using what the World Cup brings and hacking that to show the world what's is really happening in Brazil,\" said Rafael Vilela, a journalist with the Media Ninja collective, which has been on the frontline of the protests.He told the Guardian that the government had already begun arresting activists and predicted that the government would implement new laws to outlaw the \"Black Bloc\" as a terrorist group. \"They're not terrorists \u2013 they're really angry about the problems we have in Brazil,\" he said.Tost\u00e3o, one of the 1970 World Cup winning squad, also expects tense protests. \"The demonstrations are correct and just. They raise concerns about the resources that Brazil has spent on hosting the tournament,\" he said. \"There will probably be a repeat of them next year, but they will not take over the World Cup.\"Juca Kfouri, one of Brazil's leading commentators, said the outside world is likely to get an image of Brazil that will be very different from that of carnival, the beach and beautiful women.\"There is a false idea of Brazilian happiness that is based on a wrong assumption that Brazilians do not claim ownership,\" he said. \"But next year, there will be big parties inside the stadiums and big protests outside.\"", "tags": ["World Cup 2014", "Brazil", "Protest", "World Cup", "Football", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil plans 'World Cup courts'"},{"date": "2013-12-20T17:35:47Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When Chico Mendes was gunned down in the Amazon, the two policemen who were supposed to protect him were playing dominoes at his kitchen table. It was 22 December 1988.The officers had been sent to the union activist's small wooden home in Xapuri after he received death threats from landowners, who were enraged by his campaign to prevent forest clearance. But the police dropped their guard when Mendes stepped out to have a shower in the backyard. A single bullet from a .22 rifle killed him instantly. The assassin, a rancher named Darcy Alves, said \"it was like shooting a jaguar\".This weekend, Brazil will mark the 25th anniversary of that murder, which far from killing off the forest conservation campaign has boosted its profile throughout the country and across the world, influencing a generation of conservationists and policymakers. Mendes is now a symbol of the global environment movement.The Brazilian government has declared him Patron of the Brazilian Environment. Institutions have been named after him, including the main state agency in charge of conservation \u2013 the Instituto Chico Mendes de Conserva\u00e7\u00e3o da Biodiversidade. After his death, Mendes's home state of Acre in the western Amazon has pioneered the establishment of extractive reserves.Mendes's story has been the subject of books and films. In recognition of his achievements, there will be memorial ceremonies, documentaries and discussions about his legacy this weekend. Many of his ideas live on through associates, notably Marina Silva, who became environment minister and put in place Amazon protection systems that are credited with an impressive fall in the rate of deforestation until recently.But the celebrations will be tempered by the resurgent influence of the landowners' lobby, a recent sharp uptick in Amazon clearance and renewed questions about the Brazilian government's willingness to protect forest workers and conserve the biodiverse habitat on which they depend.Mendes would have recognised the destructive forces at work, though contrary to his reputation as an environmentalist, he was first and foremost a union activist campaigning on behalf of rubber tappers whose way of life was being decimated along with the loss of the Amazon. Mendes had personal experience of the consequences.Born in 1944, Francisco Alves Mendes Filho \u2013 as he was christened \u2013 was the son of a soldier in the \"Rubber Army\", the 50,000 men recruited in 1943 from Brazil's impoverished north-east and shipped to the Amazon to tap rubber for the allied war effort. With Malaya occupied by the Japanese, the US was desperate for rubber, and Brazil promised to revive its once booming rubber industry to meet the need. The tappers were largely abandoned to their own fate, many dying from disease or attacks by wild animals. When the war ended, government promises of compensation and tickets home were forgotten and many, including Mendes's father, never returned.Growing up in the forest, Chico began tapping as a child. Influenced by priests of the progressive Liberation Theology movement and former members of the Communist party, he helped found the Acre branch of the PT, the Workers' party. As president of the Xapuri tappers' union, he set up a national organisation, bringing the tappers' fight to save the forest to global attention.American environmentalists took him to Washington to persuade the World Bank, the Inter-American Bank and Congress that cattle projects in the Amazon, which covers an area bigger than western Europe, should not be funded. As an alternative, he proposed the creation of extractive reserves \u2013 protected areas that would allow public land to be managed by local communities, with rights to harvest forest products. It marked an important step forward for the conservation community.In 1987 Mendes won the UN's Global 500 award in recognition of his environmental achievements, although he saw himself primarily as a campaigner for a fairer society. As he said: \"At first I thought I was fighting to save rubber trees, then I thought I was fighting to save the Amazon rainforest. Now I realise I am fighting for humanity.\"His opponents were cattle ranchers, who had been moving into the Amazon since the 1970s when they were encouraged by the military who ruled Brazil and financed by official banks. After the dictatorship ended in 1985, these landowners set up the Rural Democratic Union \u2013 better known by its Portuguese initials UDR \u2013 to thwart the land reforms promised by the government and intimidate unionists and conservation activists. Beatings and killings were common in the remote and largely lawless Amazon region, which is often described as Brazil's wild west.Mendes was neither the first nor the last to lose his life for standing up to landowners. Since 2002, Brazil has accounted for half the killings worldwide of conservation activists, according to a survey last year by Global Witness. Some victims, such as American nun Dorothy Stang who was murdered in 2005, have become martyrs. Others like Jos\u00e9 Cl\u00e1udio Ribeiro da Silva and his wife Maria do Espirito Santo \u2013 who were shot as they got out of a car near a landless workers camp in 2011 \u2013 or Mouth Organ John \u2013 who was killed in Para in 2012 after he reported on the illegal logging \u2013 make the headlines for a few days. Many other killings, particularly of indigenous land rights activists, go largely unreported in the international media. Dozens more activists are thought to have fled or gone into hiding.Mendes was an obvious target. As well as lobbying successfully to end international financing for Amazon clearance, he organised the rubber tappers in non-violent resistance. Men, women and children would form human barricades known as \"empates\" to prevent the bulldozers from tearing down trees. His success made him many enemies and he knew he was a marked man.His killer was from a family of cattle ranchers, whose efforts to expand their pastures was held up by the empates. Darcy Alves, 22, and his father Darly were convicted in 1990 and jailed for 19 years. Although they are now free, former associates of Mendes said the assassination backfired. \"Those who killed Chico got it wrong. They thought by killing him, the tappers' movement would be demobilised, but they made him immortal. His ideas still have a huge influence,\" said Gomercindo Rodriquez, who came to Xapuri as a young agronomist in 1986, and later became Mendes's trusted adviser.Mendes wanted the forest to be used sustainably rather than cut off from economic activity (as some environmentalists wanted) or cut down (as the farmers wanted). He proposed the establishment of extractive reserves for tappers, Brazil nut collectors and others who harvested nature in a balanced way. After his death the first of many such reserves in Brazil, the Chico Mendes Extractive Reserve, was created, covering 1m hectares of forest around Xapuri.After years of decline, the demand for latex from a local condom factory has boosted the price of rubber, and many tappers, who had turned to raising cattle, have returned to the forest. \"This is Chico's legacy,\" said Gomercindo. \"The extractive reserves have meant the preservation of the forest \u2013 all around it has been destroyed for cattle pasture. They have become an example, they now exist in other areas of Brazil.\"The Chico Mendes Reserve has electricity and schools. Many students have graduated from university. Some tappers now have motorbikes and cars and some have become forest guides. Trees are sustainably harvested, and there is an eco-lodge. Building on this model, 68 extractive reserves have been established in the Brazilian Amazon, covering more than 136,000 sq km.The Brazilian Space Institute INPE also started satellite monitoring of deforestation the year that Mendes was killed. The timing was a coincidence, but the effectiveness of this program has been heavily influenced by those who were inspired by Mendes. After forest clearance peaked in 2004, the environment minister Marina da Silva, another child of a rubber tapping family and former colleague of Mendes, put in place a more rigorous system of monitoring, penalties and incentives that has resulted in an 80% slowdown in the rate of deforestation.But this progress is at risk as power in Brazil moves towards big landowners and away from the rural workers, conservationists and indigenous groups that Mendes fought for.Last year, president Dilma Rousseff \u2013 who depends on the rural lobby for support in Congress \u2013 signed into law a change in the forest code reform of the forest code, which diluted environmental protection of the Amazon and other areas of biodiversity. The landowners' bloc in the legislature, which includes former members of the UDR, is now pushing for revision of other environmental laws and policies, including the rights of indigenous peoples guaranteed by the constitution of 1988 and the Brazilian National Protected Areas System.In a sign of the worrying trend, satellite data showed a 28% rise in deforestation this year, breaking a five-year trend of decline.Ahead of this weekend's anniversary, landowners in Congress vetoed a move to give Mendes's name to the room where the parliamentary agriculture committee meets. But conservation groups have vowed to continue his struggle.\"His legacy is an example that should guide all of us in keeping nature in our minds as a solution and a means to constructing a better world for all\", said Claudio Maretti, head of WWF's Amazon Initiative \u2013 one of many international organisations that will show their respects for Brazil's Patron of the Environment at this weekend's anniversary.", "tags": ["Amazon rainforest", "Brazil", "Deforestation", "Trees and forests", "Environment", "Americas", "World news", "Activism", "Protest"], "title": "Brazil salutes Chico Mendes 25 years after his murder"},{"date": "2013-12-20T12:45:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "America is a continent that is divided in three parts: Central, North and South. Yet, when people say \"America\" it is immediately clear that they don't mean the continent with 35 ethnically, culturally and linguistically diverse countries, they mean the United States of America. That might be where the aggressive envy many South Americans have towards the US starts: why do we have to be \"South Americans\" and people from the US get to be just Americans, no explanatory prefix required?But that's just the beginning of it.Brazil has been overwhelmingly influenced by American culture. We absorb the TV shows, the slang, the humour and even the dreams. I know a lot of people who learned English by watching Friends, laughing at Homer Simpson and listening to Britney Spears. It's a second culture that complements our own. That's not a bad thing: Brazilians admire American pop culture, the importance that is given to music, art and entertainment. In fact, a lot of us watch Family Guy instead of national productions because the jokes are so much funnier than any Brazilian comedy show. The United States isn't perfect, but there is a general consensus that it is better than my home country in many fundamental ways. It's common to see families going to Florida to do their yearly clothes, make-up and electronic shopping in December. The importation taxes in Brazil are much too high, and it is surprisingly more cost-effective to travel to the United States to buy a Wii U for the original price of $400, than the ridiculously inflated price it is being sold for here ($900, I kid you not). Brazil is actually known for selling the most expensive electronics in the world.Although the United States is seen as a deeply divided country politically, with many extremely conservative and outdated laws and views (this image is particularly true of southern states), there are states that are very liberal and are attractive to Brazilians. California and New York, in particular, are attractive to LGBT communities here, because of the acceptance they imagine is rampant. Having a pro-LGBT rights president is also a huge plus. While the United States is still seen by many as homophobic, misogynist, sexist and classist \u2013 these conditions are still worse in Brazil.But perhaps the biggest draw to the United States is the relative accountability of your political leaders. Barack Obama should be considered a national treasure. If the United States doesn't want him, we will take him. The man is not perfect, but at least he tries to improve the country and respects his people. Here in South America, politicians constantly embezzle money, are hardly ever held accountable for their crimes, and generally neglect the population. I don't know how much corruption goes on in American specifically, but I am willing to bet that it nowhere near as prevalent and blatant as in Brazil and many other South American countries.Of course, the US has a huge problem with the privacy invasion perpetrated by the NSA, as was revealed by this very publication. They have spied on world leaders, including Brazil's president. And while the US government attempts to dodge accountability, it was also revealed that Brazil's government has also been spying on the US and other countries' leaders. So it seems like the Brazilian government is also abusive in the name of \"national security\". In terms of political impact, it has definitely soured a usually smooth diplomatic relationship, but this hasn't really changed the opinions of the masses.The way the people are treated here, the constant misery we see in the streets, the violence and the government continually spitting in our faces by stealing public money \u2013  and giving priority to unnecessary international events \u2013 is more than many of us can bear. This is especially true when we are dominated and overwhelmed by the culture of a country that, while again, is not perfect, is definitely much more successful than ours. The negligence our population suffers is the reason why the view of America as an \"escape\" is held predominantly by the middle to upper class: the lower income population isn't exposed to American culture. They, too, deeply feel the leaders' abuse of power, but it is the middle to upper classes who have the resources needed to leave.It is for these reasons that Brazilians have aggressive envy of America, and why more privileged Brazilians escape to the US, be it via a yearly trip or permanent immigration. Though the problems of the United States are clear, the opportunities are much more attractive than in our own country and our neighbors'. We know that despite our potential, we can't get our act together \u2013 most of my extended family has escaped to first world countries, primarily to the US.Although the trend of escaping to the US existed before Obama's presidency, his leadership has convinced me and many others that our people deserve greater respect from our leaders. The accountability and pressure Obama is put under by the American people is, in and of itself, remarkable to us. So if you really don't want Barack Obama to be your president anymore, give him to us. We'll take him.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Barack Obama", "US news", "World news", "LGBT rights", "Surveillance", "NSA", "Retail industry", "US politics", "Governance"], "title": "If America doesn't want Obama, give him to Brazil | Nicole Froio"},{"date": "2013-12-06T19:31:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Forget about the opponents. What about the venues? When the England team run out on 14 June in Manaus to play their first match in Brazil 2014 (at 1am UK time, you note), they may find it is not just 11 Italians they are up against.June is the dry season in Manaus, which is something to be thankful for, but temperatures persist above 30C and the humidity is sticky at best, steamy and sapping at worst. Roy Hodgson made it clear before the draw that this jungle city, one of the remotest on Earth, was a place he wanted to avoid. \"The tropical nature of Manaus is the problem. I'm not an expert on the venue but I'm just mouthing what everybody has been saying to me. Manaus is the place ideally to avoid,\" Hodgson said.The feeling is mutual. The city's mayor, Arthur Virg\u00edlio Neto, responded curtly. \"We Amazonians would also prefer it if England did not come here,\" he said in a statement. \"We will be hoping for a better draw of a team with more sensitive, cultured and educated technicians.\" Alas, most teams in world football would disappoint him on that score.Matheus Augusto, a fan of the local Nacional team, said the England team would suffer because Manaus will be the hottest of all of Brazil's 12 host cities.\"It's really hot sometimes: 38\u201340C. Principally, the Europeans are going to suffer. It's going to be really hard for them. They're not used to heat like this,\" he predicted.But he played down the likelihood of England being a target of local hostility.\"I think the mayor misunderstood Hodgson's comments. He's being criticised a lot for this. When England come, it will be fine,\" he said. \"Everyone wants to avoid Manaus, so it's OK, it's really hot here. I'm not offended, it's normal.\"Located in one of the planet's last great wildernesses, Manaus is doubly isolated: first by the confluence of the Rio Negro and Rio Solim\u00f5es, then by a sea of green forest that stretches close to 600 miles on all sides. The electric storms that buffet Manaus sometimes overload the local grid and burn out computers, air conditioners and fridges. Rainy-season downpours can turn a building site into a swimming pool. The equatorial sunlight is so intense that it can bleach coloured plastic seating.Getting to the centre of the Amazon will also require a 1,700 mile journey, but once fans are there, Manaus will be one of the most exotic and locations that the England team and its fans have ever visited. For the more intrepid who need to while away the hours before kick-off, there are boat rides down the world's greatest river and the chance to swim with pink dolphins.Other attractions include the 19th century Manaus Opera House and the city's annual festival, Boi-Bumb\u00e1, a rumbustuous combination of indigenous and immigrant styles of music and dancing.But visitors will need to take mosquito repellent and ensure they are vaccinated against yellow fever.Indeed, Manaus is hardly a hotbed of football culture \u2013 Nacional are lucky to draw 3,000 supporters. The 43,000-seater stadium being built for Brazil 2014 is likely to sit empty once the World Cup carnival has moved on.The venue should be ready in time. Arena da Amaz\u00f4nia is due for completion shortly and the Brazilian authorities say it is back on schedule after delays earlier this year. The complex steel-lattice design, which is ostensibly modelled on a traditional hand-woven basket, looks remarkably similar to the \"bird's nest\" Olympic stadium in Beijing.All 6,700 tonnes of metal had to be smelted in Portugal, shipped across the Atlantic and then down through the Amazon to Manaus.Once the team is done with the Brazilian interior, another long five-hour flight awaits footballers and fans to get back to the cooler, more southerly region, and matches in S\u00e3o Paulo against Uruguay and in Brazil's third city, Belo Horizonte against Costa Rica.By the end of the first round, England will already have clocked up 4,300 miles and fans will already have spent several thousand pounds, depending on whether they have opted for the expensive or the fairly expensive accommodation option.If England progress further, the coastal cities of Rio de Janeiro or Recife await. The interior is left behind. A long way behind.", "tags": ["World Cup 2014 draw", "England", "Brazil", "World Cup 2014", "Americas", "Football", "World Cup", "Roy Hodgson", "World news", "UK news", "World Cup 2014 Group D"], "title": "Brazil 2014: England draw tough opponents \u2013 and a tougher climate"},{"date": "2014-01-26T06:29:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I have no photographs of my first holiday to Brazil \u2013 a two-week package deal in the early 90s including flights to Rio, a hotel in Copacabana and carnival tickets. I\u00a0decided not to take a\u00a0camera because I didn't want to \"stand out as a tourist\". But as I sat on the beach in my sensible swimsuit, white English thighs sizzling, my Lonely Planet guidebook propped open on my head as a sun hat, a crowd of children gathered, pointing, laughing and shouting \"Camar\u00e3o!\" (which means prawn). The notion that a camera would be the thing to mark me out as a hapless gringo seemed laughable.So, no photos to look at, but the memories are indelible: the lights from the favelas twinkling on the hillsides, the ground shaking in the sambadromo as the drummers marched towards us, the shock of seeing small children sleeping under flyovers, my first taste of passion fruit\u2026Each time I return to Brazil I fall in love with it again. Here's a guide to some of the highlights which await both football fans and those inspired by the wall-to-wall coverage to visit.SAO PAULOWhy go? S\u00e3o Paulo is hosting the World Cup opening ceremony and at least one England game (against Uruguay on 19 June). It has the most exciting cultural, culinary and nightlife scene in Latin America. Don't be daunted by the size of this sprawling metropolis \u2013 just pick a\u00a0neighbourhood and get a local to show you around. Vayable.com offers walking and cycling tours led by Paulistanos, or embark on a\u00a0Taste of S\u00e3o Paulo (tasteofsaopaulofoodtours.com) foodie walking tour.If you do only one thing Masp (masp.art.br) is home to the finest collection of western art in Latin America. At weekends the space beneath it is given over to an antiques and craft market, and street food, too.Where to hang out Sample two great Brazilian traditions \u2013 samba and feijoada (pork and bean stew) \u2013 at Bar Samba in Vila Madalena on a\u00a0Saturday (Rua Fidalga, 308, +55 11 3819 4619). The neighbourhood has lots of little galleries, bookshops and botecos (bars) to hang out in.Escape the crowds S\u00e3o Paulo is a\u00a0hard-working town, but on Sundays you can see its softer side by hiring a\u00a0bike and exploring the Ciclofaixas de Lazer \u2013 30km of car-free cycle lanes which link the major parks (ciclofaixa.com.br).RIO DE JANEIRONo trip to Brazil is complete without a\u00a0visit to Rio, a\u00a0city that turns the dial up to 11. All life can be found on the beaches of Copacabana, Ipanema and Leblon, from surfing street kids to strutting supermodels. Take the streetcar up to the bohemian neighbourhood of Santa Teresa, all arty caf\u00e9s and colonial charm, or hire a pedalo or bike at Rodrigo de Freitas Lagoon, Rio's version of Central Park.If you do only one thing It's hard to overstate the beauty of Rio's setting, its jungle-clad mountains and series of scalloped bays. Board the cable car to the top of Sugar Loaf Mountain (bondinho.com.br) at sunset, and you'll be in a\u00a0postcard.Where to hang out The Lapa district is Rio's nightlife hub. Every night samba bands busk on the streets or play in dance halls, such as Carioca Da Gema (Rua Mem de Sa, 79) or the slightly touristy (but fab) Rio Scenarium (Rua do Lavradio, 28).Escape the crowds Tijuca National Park is the world's largest urban forest, and it's located in the heart of Rio. Jungle Me Tours can arrange hiking tours through the rainforest and a climb to the top of Corcovado to see the iconic Christ the Redeemer statue (jungleme.com.br).MANAUSManaus will host England's first game of the tournament \u2013 the city was also overrun by rampaging Europeans during the 19th-century rubber boom, which left a legacy of grand buildings, such as the ornate Teatro Amazonas and the Rio Negro Palace. Today it's the jumping-off point for Amazon rainforest adventures. The launch in June of flights from London with Tap Air Portugal (flytap.com) will further raise this fast-growing city's profile.If you do only one thing Guided tours of the gold-domed Teatro Amazonas, built in 1896, run most days (best when the orchestra is rehearsing). People-watch at Pra\u00e7a S\u00e2o Sebasti\u00e2o, the square out in front.Where to hang out On the banks of the chocolate-coloured Rio Negro, Ponta Negra beach is popular for locals and tourists. Kiosks sell tropical juice, beer, caipirinhas and snacks, and there's often music from boi-bumba bands, the Amazon's answer to samba.Escape the crowds Manaus is a launchpad for riverboat adventures on the Rio Negro and Amazon \u2013 Swallows & Amazons organises cruises for all budgets (swallowsandamazonstours.com). Or book a few nights at a jungle lodge \u2013 at the Tariri Amazon Lodge outside Manaus, stay in thatched cabins on stilts (taririamazonlodge.com).SALVADORSultry Salvador, the heartland of Afro-Brazilian culture, was the main entry point for slaves from the African continent. Their legacy lives on in capoeira and spicy cuisine.If you do only one thing Take a\u00a0walking tour of the Pelourinho, a Unesco World Heritage Site (the neighbourhood still has an edge though). Here you'll find capoeira and drumming schools, many offering classes to tourists. On Tuesday nights there's a massive street party, including drumming group Olodum.Where to hang out Rio Vermelho is an up-and-coming area for nightlife with a bohemian flavour. Look out for the barracas do acaraj\u00e9 \u2013 stalls selling street foods.Escape the crowds Most people head north by bus to Bahia's golden beaches dotted with laid-back resorts. In the rainy season, which coincides with the World Cup, head to the wild Chapada Diamantina. Fly from Salvador to Len\u00e7\u00f3is, where agencies provide walking guides and camping gear.BELO HORIZONTEFootball fans visiting for England's game against Costa Rica on 24 June should schedule in a few days in this likeable city ringed by mountains with a lively cultural scene, striking modernist architecture, a handful of world-class museums and galleries, great food and some of the best nightlife outside of Rio and S\u00e3o Paulo.If you do only one thing The Pampulha complex is a\u00a0man-made lake surrounded by modern buildings, several designed by Brazil's most famous architect, Oscar Niemeyer. It's home to the museum of modern art, the university and the S\u00e3o Francisco de Assis church. Near the lake you'll find the botanical gardens, zoo and the Mineir\u00e3o football stadium.Where to hang out The city is famed for its botecos which compete for best bar snacks in the annual Comida di Buteco festival. Experience the lively bar scene around the Pra\u00e7a da Savassi, where the city's bright young things flock. Escape the crowds Inhotim is one of Brazil's most extraordinary places: an open-air contemporary art gallery surrounded by botanical gardens and coffee plantations, a\u00a090-minute drive away (inhotim.org.br). Those with time to spare should visit a nearby colonial town: Ouro Preto and Tiradentes are beautiful and easily reached by public transport.", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel", "Football"], "title": "Highlights of Brazil | Joanne O'Connor"},{"date": "2014-01-26T06:29:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I have no photographs of my first holiday to Brazil \u2013 a two-week package deal in the early 90s including flights to Rio, a hotel in Copacabana and carnival tickets. I\u00a0decided not to take a\u00a0camera because I didn't want to \"stand out as a tourist\". But as I sat on the beach in my sensible swimsuit, white English thighs sizzling, my Lonely Planet guidebook propped open on my head as a sun hat, a crowd of children gathered, pointing, laughing and shouting \"Camar\u00e3o!\" (which means prawn). The notion that a camera would be the thing to mark me out as a hapless gringo seemed laughable.So, no photos to look at, but the memories are indelible: the lights from the favelas twinkling on the hillsides, the ground shaking in the sambadromo as the drummers marched towards us, the shock of seeing small children sleeping under flyovers, my first taste of passion fruit\u2026Each time I return to Brazil I fall in love with it again. Here's a guide to some of the highlights which await both football fans and those inspired by the wall-to-wall coverage to visit.SAO PAULOWhy go? S\u00e3o Paulo is hosting the World Cup opening ceremony and at least one England game (against Uruguay on 19 June). It has the most exciting cultural, culinary and nightlife scene in Latin America. Don't be daunted by the size of this sprawling metropolis \u2013 just pick a\u00a0neighbourhood and get a local to show you around. Vayable.com offers walking and cycling tours led by Paulistanos, or embark on a\u00a0Taste of S\u00e3o Paulo (tasteofsaopaulofoodtours.com) foodie walking tour.If you do only one thing Masp (masp.art.br) is home to the finest collection of western art in Latin America. At weekends the space beneath it is given over to an antiques and craft market, and street food, too.Where to hang out Sample two great Brazilian traditions \u2013 samba and feijoada (pork and bean stew) \u2013 at Bar Samba in Vila Madalena on a\u00a0Saturday (Rua Fidalga, 308, +55 11 3819 4619). The neighbourhood has lots of little galleries, bookshops and botecos (bars) to hang out in.Escape the crowds S\u00e3o Paulo is a\u00a0hard-working town, but on Sundays you can see its softer side by hiring a\u00a0bike and exploring the Ciclofaixas de Lazer \u2013 30km of car-free cycle lanes which link the major parks (ciclofaixa.com.br).RIO DE JANEIRONo trip to Brazil is complete without a\u00a0visit to Rio, a\u00a0city that turns the dial up to 11. All life can be found on the beaches of Copacabana, Ipanema and Leblon, from surfing street kids to strutting supermodels. Take the streetcar up to the bohemian neighbourhood of Santa Teresa, all arty caf\u00e9s and colonial charm, or hire a pedalo or bike at Rodrigo de Freitas Lagoon, Rio's version of Central Park.If you do only one thing It's hard to overstate the beauty of Rio's setting, its jungle-clad mountains and series of scalloped bays. Board the cable car to the top of Sugar Loaf Mountain (bondinho.com.br) at sunset, and you'll be in a\u00a0postcard.Where to hang out The Lapa district is Rio's nightlife hub. Every night samba bands busk on the streets or play in dance halls, such as Carioca Da Gema (Rua Mem de Sa, 79) or the slightly touristy (but fab) Rio Scenarium (Rua do Lavradio, 28).Escape the crowds Tijuca National Park is the world's largest urban forest, and it's located in the heart of Rio. Jungle Me Tours can arrange hiking tours through the rainforest and a climb to the top of Corcovado to see the iconic Christ the Redeemer statue (jungleme.com.br).MANAUSManaus will host England's first game of the tournament \u2013 the city was also overrun by rampaging Europeans during the 19th-century rubber boom, which left a legacy of grand buildings, such as the ornate Teatro Amazonas and the Rio Negro Palace. Today it's the jumping-off point for Amazon rainforest adventures. The launch in June of flights from London with Tap Air Portugal (flytap.com) will further raise this fast-growing city's profile.If you do only one thing Guided tours of the gold-domed Teatro Amazonas, built in 1896, run most days (best when the orchestra is rehearsing). People-watch at Pra\u00e7a S\u00e2o Sebasti\u00e2o, the square out in front.Where to hang out On the banks of the chocolate-coloured Rio Negro, Ponta Negra beach is popular for locals and tourists. Kiosks sell tropical juice, beer, caipirinhas and snacks, and there's often music from boi-bumba bands, the Amazon's answer to samba.Escape the crowds Manaus is a launchpad for riverboat adventures on the Rio Negro and Amazon \u2013 Swallows & Amazons organises cruises for all budgets (swallowsandamazonstours.com). Or book a few nights at a jungle lodge \u2013 at the Tariri Amazon Lodge outside Manaus, stay in thatched cabins on stilts (taririamazonlodge.com).SALVADORSultry Salvador, the heartland of Afro-Brazilian culture, was the main entry point for slaves from the African continent. Their legacy lives on in capoeira and spicy cuisine.If you do only one thing Take a\u00a0walking tour of the Pelourinho, a Unesco World Heritage Site (the neighbourhood still has an edge though). Here you'll find capoeira and drumming schools, many offering classes to tourists. On Tuesday nights there's a massive street party, including drumming group Olodum.Where to hang out Rio Vermelho is an up-and-coming area for nightlife with a bohemian flavour. Look out for the barracas do acaraj\u00e9 \u2013 stalls selling street foods.Escape the crowds Most people head north by bus to Bahia's golden beaches dotted with laid-back resorts. In the rainy season, which coincides with the World Cup, head to the wild Chapada Diamantina. Fly from Salvador to Len\u00e7\u00f3is, where agencies provide walking guides and camping gear.BELO HORIZONTEFootball fans visiting for England's game against Costa Rica on 24 June should schedule in a few days in this likeable city ringed by mountains with a lively cultural scene, striking modernist architecture, a handful of world-class museums and galleries, great food and some of the best nightlife outside of Rio and S\u00e3o Paulo.If you do only one thing The Pampulha complex is a\u00a0man-made lake surrounded by modern buildings, several designed by Brazil's most famous architect, Oscar Niemeyer. It's home to the museum of modern art, the university and the S\u00e3o Francisco de Assis church. Near the lake you'll find the botanical gardens, zoo and the Mineir\u00e3o football stadium.Where to hang out The city is famed for its botecos which compete for best bar snacks in the annual Comida di Buteco festival. Experience the lively bar scene around the Pra\u00e7a da Savassi, where the city's bright young things flock. Escape the crowds Inhotim is one of Brazil's most extraordinary places: an open-air contemporary art gallery surrounded by botanical gardens and coffee plantations, a\u00a090-minute drive away (inhotim.org.br). Those with time to spare should visit a nearby colonial town: Ouro Preto and Tiradentes are beautiful and easily reached by public transport.", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel", "Football"], "title": "Highlights of Brazil | Joanne O'Connor"},{"date": "2014-01-26T08:00:37Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Heavily made up and dressed in a white bathrobe and heels, Isis Valverde marches into a\u00a0suite at Rio's Copacabana Palace, stretches out an elegant hand to greet me and says, with a winning smile: \"Looks like a gringo, huh?\"She could be forgiven a little grandeza: at just 26, the actor is already one of the most famous women in Brazil \u2013 a star of novelas, or soap operas, that the country watches every night with such relish. \"Our novela is what cinema is abroad. It is very well done. There is a lot of money involved,\" she says. \"A lot more than there is in cinema, which is a great shame, because I am in love with cinema.\"Valverde has made just one film to date \u2013 a\u00a0\"Brazilian Western\" called Faroeste Caboclo \u2013 and she previously declined a test for the James Bond film Casino Royale as she was not yet fluent in English, she says, punctuating her rapid-fire Portuguese with frequent husky laughs, and occasionally referring to herself in the third person.She has just finished filming a mini-series called Amores Roubados (Stolen Loves) for Brazil's dominant Globo network, to which she is exclusively contracted, and is at the Copacabana Palace for a high-glamour photoshoot for a Brazilian newspaper.This is a role she relishes. \"See Isis, full of Dolce e Gabbana, in an amazing hotel,\" she says. \"It shows the different faces you have, in a different way: 'Oh, she's modern, she also likes fashion.'\" As Valverde observes, the photoshoot is a vivid contrast to her most famous role to date \u2013 that of Suelen, a brash, loud and hugely entertaining footballer's girlfriend from a poor Rio suburb in the hit 2012 novela Avenida Brasil.The soap caught the imagination of Brazilians with its boisterous characterisation of the lives of the country's \"Class C\" \u2013 a colourful and consumerist lower-middle class created after a decade of economic advancement enabled millions of Brazilians to come out of poverty and become consumers. More than half the population is now classified as Class C, but they had never been so expertly depicted in a\u00a0soap before.Clad in skin-tight, colourful leggings, heels and crop tops, Suelen clacked and wise-talked her way into Brazilians hearts, and a new slang word was coined: periguete. \"She is that kind of woman who is more self-interested, who wears clothes to show her body, who always likes to wear short, clingy clothes, she is a very vain woman,\" Valverde explains.Like the novela, which has since been sold to over 100 countries, the word \"periguete\" took off in Brazil \u2013 there was even a\u00a0samba written about it. But despite \u2013 or perhaps because \u2013 of Suelen's inner gold-digger, the character resounded in an extrovert culture which is deeply macho, but which also prizes women with powerful personalities. \"The strength of a woman. The seduction of a woman. The way she is potent. I think the character brought this,\" says Valverde.Valverde grew up in the small town of Aiuruoca, in the interior of Minas Gerais state. Her father was a chemist and her mother a lawyer and former actor. Isis was signed up for a Globo soap at 17. She always wanted to be an actor. \"I think that it is one of the most beautiful expressions that exists, because you live your life, and you live various others,\" she says.When a million Brazilians took to the streets in June last year to protest on a range of issues, from failing public services to the costs of staging next year's World Cup, she joined them. \"Brazil has to start to focus more on education, on health, on teachers' salaries,\" she says. \"I think that education and health are the principal points for a society to evolve and grow.\"Money spent on stadiums could have been better invested, she continues, but she remains cautiously optimistic about the World Cup. \"There is a real lack of infrastructure. But I think it will be good for the country.\"Instead, she called for better salaries for teachers and an end to a constitutional amendment called PEC 37, which had been passing through Congress, and which would have taken the power of prosecution away from Brazilian public prosecutors and given it to police. PEC 37 was seen as a blueprint for yet more corruption. But Congress threw the amendment out following the protests \u2013 which Valverde saw as a success.\"We have to ask for few things. If you ask for a whole list, they end up doing nothing,\" she adds with a throaty laugh. \"But Brazil's endemic corruption is a much bigger problem. \"I think it's a big mess. \"But we are Brazilians and we never give up.\"", "tags": ["Portrait of Brazil 2014"], "title": "Voices of Brazil: the actor Brazilians love"},{"date": "2014-01-26T06:29:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I have no photographs of my first holiday to Brazil \u2013 a two-week package deal in the early 90s including flights to Rio, a hotel in Copacabana and carnival tickets. I\u00a0decided not to take a\u00a0camera because I didn't want to \"stand out as a tourist\". But as I sat on the beach in my sensible swimsuit, white English thighs sizzling, my Lonely Planet guidebook propped open on my head as a sun hat, a crowd of children gathered, pointing, laughing and shouting \"Camar\u00e3o!\" (which means prawn). The notion that a camera would be the thing to mark me out as a hapless gringo seemed laughable.So, no photos to look at, but the memories are indelible: the lights from the favelas twinkling on the hillsides, the ground shaking in the sambadromo as the drummers marched towards us, the shock of seeing small children sleeping under flyovers, my first taste of passion fruit\u2026Each time I return to Brazil I fall in love with it again. Here's a guide to some of the highlights which await both football fans and those inspired by the wall-to-wall coverage to visit.SAO PAULOWhy go? S\u00e3o Paulo is hosting the World Cup opening ceremony and at least one England game (against Uruguay on 19 June). It has the most exciting cultural, culinary and nightlife scene in Latin America. Don't be daunted by the size of this sprawling metropolis \u2013 just pick a\u00a0neighbourhood and get a local to show you around. Vayable.com offers walking and cycling tours led by Paulistanos, or embark on a\u00a0Taste of S\u00e3o Paulo (tasteofsaopaulofoodtours.com) foodie walking tour.If you do only one thing Masp (masp.art.br) is home to the finest collection of western art in Latin America. At weekends the space beneath it is given over to an antiques and craft market, and street food, too.Where to hang out Sample two great Brazilian traditions \u2013 samba and feijoada (pork and bean stew) \u2013 at Bar Samba in Vila Madalena on a\u00a0Saturday (Rua Fidalga, 308, +55 11 3819 4619). The neighbourhood has lots of little galleries, bookshops and botecos (bars) to hang out in.Escape the crowds S\u00e3o Paulo is a\u00a0hard-working town, but on Sundays you can see its softer side by hiring a\u00a0bike and exploring the Ciclofaixas de Lazer \u2013 30km of car-free cycle lanes which link the major parks (ciclofaixa.com.br).RIO DE JANEIRONo trip to Brazil is complete without a\u00a0visit to Rio, a\u00a0city that turns the dial up to 11. All life can be found on the beaches of Copacabana, Ipanema and Leblon, from surfing street kids to strutting supermodels. Take the streetcar up to the bohemian neighbourhood of Santa Teresa, all arty caf\u00e9s and colonial charm, or hire a pedalo or bike at Rodrigo de Freitas Lagoon, Rio's version of Central Park.If you do only one thing It's hard to overstate the beauty of Rio's setting, its jungle-clad mountains and series of scalloped bays. Board the cable car to the top of Sugar Loaf Mountain (bondinho.com.br) at sunset, and you'll be in a\u00a0postcard.Where to hang out The Lapa district is Rio's nightlife hub. Every night samba bands busk on the streets or play in dance halls, such as Carioca Da Gema (Rua Mem de Sa, 79) or the slightly touristy (but fab) Rio Scenarium (Rua do Lavradio, 28).Escape the crowds Tijuca National Park is the world's largest urban forest, and it's located in the heart of Rio. Jungle Me Tours can arrange hiking tours through the rainforest and a climb to the top of Corcovado to see the iconic Christ the Redeemer statue (jungleme.com.br).MANAUSManaus will host England's first game of the tournament \u2013 the city was also overrun by rampaging Europeans during the 19th-century rubber boom, which left a legacy of grand buildings, such as the ornate Teatro Amazonas and the Rio Negro Palace. Today it's the jumping-off point for Amazon rainforest adventures. The launch in June of flights from London with Tap Air Portugal (flytap.com) will further raise this fast-growing city's profile.If you do only one thing Guided tours of the gold-domed Teatro Amazonas, built in 1896, run most days (best when the orchestra is rehearsing). People-watch at Pra\u00e7a S\u00e2o Sebasti\u00e2o, the square out in front.Where to hang out On the banks of the chocolate-coloured Rio Negro, Ponta Negra beach is popular for locals and tourists. Kiosks sell tropical juice, beer, caipirinhas and snacks, and there's often music from boi-bumba bands, the Amazon's answer to samba.Escape the crowds Manaus is a launchpad for riverboat adventures on the Rio Negro and Amazon \u2013 Swallows & Amazons organises cruises for all budgets (swallowsandamazonstours.com). Or book a few nights at a jungle lodge \u2013 at the Tariri Amazon Lodge outside Manaus, stay in thatched cabins on stilts (taririamazonlodge.com).SALVADORSultry Salvador, the heartland of Afro-Brazilian culture, was the main entry point for slaves from the African continent. Their legacy lives on in capoeira and spicy cuisine.If you do only one thing Take a\u00a0walking tour of the Pelourinho, a Unesco World Heritage Site (the neighbourhood still has an edge though). Here you'll find capoeira and drumming schools, many offering classes to tourists. On Tuesday nights there's a massive street party, including drumming group Olodum.Where to hang out Rio Vermelho is an up-and-coming area for nightlife with a bohemian flavour. Look out for the barracas do acaraj\u00e9 \u2013 stalls selling street foods.Escape the crowds Most people head north by bus to Bahia's golden beaches dotted with laid-back resorts. In the rainy season, which coincides with the World Cup, head to the wild Chapada Diamantina. Fly from Salvador to Len\u00e7\u00f3is, where agencies provide walking guides and camping gear.BELO HORIZONTEFootball fans visiting for England's game against Costa Rica on 24 June should schedule in a few days in this likeable city ringed by mountains with a lively cultural scene, striking modernist architecture, a handful of world-class museums and galleries, great food and some of the best nightlife outside of Rio and S\u00e3o Paulo.If you do only one thing The Pampulha complex is a\u00a0man-made lake surrounded by modern buildings, several designed by Brazil's most famous architect, Oscar Niemeyer. It's home to the museum of modern art, the university and the S\u00e3o Francisco de Assis church. Near the lake you'll find the botanical gardens, zoo and the Mineir\u00e3o football stadium.Where to hang out The city is famed for its botecos which compete for best bar snacks in the annual Comida di Buteco festival. Experience the lively bar scene around the Pra\u00e7a da Savassi, where the city's bright young things flock. Escape the crowds Inhotim is one of Brazil's most extraordinary places: an open-air contemporary art gallery surrounded by botanical gardens and coffee plantations, a\u00a090-minute drive away (inhotim.org.br). Those with time to spare should visit a nearby colonial town: Ouro Preto and Tiradentes are beautiful and easily reached by public transport.", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel", "Football"], "title": "Highlights of Brazil | Joanne O'Connor"},{"date": "2014-01-26T08:00:37Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Heavily made up and dressed in a white bathrobe and heels, Isis Valverde marches into a\u00a0suite at Rio's Copacabana Palace, stretches out an elegant hand to greet me and says, with a winning smile: \"Looks like a gringo, huh?\"She could be forgiven a little grandeza: at just 26, the actor is already one of the most famous women in Brazil \u2013 a star of novelas, or soap operas, that the country watches every night with such relish. \"Our novela is what cinema is abroad. It is very well done. There is a lot of money involved,\" she says. \"A lot more than there is in cinema, which is a great shame, because I am in love with cinema.\"Valverde has made just one film to date \u2013 a\u00a0\"Brazilian Western\" called Faroeste Caboclo \u2013 and she previously declined a test for the James Bond film Casino Royale as she was not yet fluent in English, she says, punctuating her rapid-fire Portuguese with frequent husky laughs, and occasionally referring to herself in the third person.She has just finished filming a mini-series called Amores Roubados (Stolen Loves) for Brazil's dominant Globo network, to which she is exclusively contracted, and is at the Copacabana Palace for a high-glamour photoshoot for a Brazilian newspaper.This is a role she relishes. \"See Isis, full of Dolce e Gabbana, in an amazing hotel,\" she says. \"It shows the different faces you have, in a different way: 'Oh, she's modern, she also likes fashion.'\" As Valverde observes, the photoshoot is a vivid contrast to her most famous role to date \u2013 that of Suelen, a brash, loud and hugely entertaining footballer's girlfriend from a poor Rio suburb in the hit 2012 novela Avenida Brasil.The soap caught the imagination of Brazilians with its boisterous characterisation of the lives of the country's \"Class C\" \u2013 a colourful and consumerist lower-middle class created after a decade of economic advancement enabled millions of Brazilians to come out of poverty and become consumers. More than half the population is now classified as Class C, but they had never been so expertly depicted in a\u00a0soap before.Clad in skin-tight, colourful leggings, heels and crop tops, Suelen clacked and wise-talked her way into Brazilians hearts, and a new slang word was coined: periguete. \"She is that kind of woman who is more self-interested, who wears clothes to show her body, who always likes to wear short, clingy clothes, she is a very vain woman,\" Valverde explains.Like the novela, which has since been sold to over 100 countries, the word \"periguete\" took off in Brazil \u2013 there was even a\u00a0samba written about it. But despite \u2013 or perhaps because \u2013 of Suelen's inner gold-digger, the character resounded in an extrovert culture which is deeply macho, but which also prizes women with powerful personalities. \"The strength of a woman. The seduction of a woman. The way she is potent. I think the character brought this,\" says Valverde.Valverde grew up in the small town of Aiuruoca, in the interior of Minas Gerais state. Her father was a chemist and her mother a lawyer and former actor. Isis was signed up for a Globo soap at 17. She always wanted to be an actor. \"I think that it is one of the most beautiful expressions that exists, because you live your life, and you live various others,\" she says.When a million Brazilians took to the streets in June last year to protest on a range of issues, from failing public services to the costs of staging next year's World Cup, she joined them. \"Brazil has to start to focus more on education, on health, on teachers' salaries,\" she says. \"I think that education and health are the principal points for a society to evolve and grow.\"Money spent on stadiums could have been better invested, she continues, but she remains cautiously optimistic about the World Cup. \"There is a real lack of infrastructure. But I think it will be good for the country.\"Instead, she called for better salaries for teachers and an end to a constitutional amendment called PEC 37, which had been passing through Congress, and which would have taken the power of prosecution away from Brazilian public prosecutors and given it to police. PEC 37 was seen as a blueprint for yet more corruption. But Congress threw the amendment out following the protests \u2013 which Valverde saw as a success.\"We have to ask for few things. If you ask for a whole list, they end up doing nothing,\" she adds with a throaty laugh. \"But Brazil's endemic corruption is a much bigger problem. \"I think it's a big mess. \"But we are Brazilians and we never give up.\"", "tags": ["Portrait of Brazil 2014"], "title": "Voices of Brazil: the actor Brazilians love"},{"date": "2014-01-26T08:01:14Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When the world's most ambitious policing operation was shaken last year by reports that officers tortured and killed a resident in Rio de Janeiro's biggest favela, the authorities knew exactly who to call.Major Pricilla de Oliveira Azevedo \u2013 a 35-year-old pioneer of Rio's \"pacification\" programme \u2013 was appointed to handle the political fall-out from the arrest of her predecessor and 12 other officers, who were charged with the murder of Amarildo de Souza, a bricklayer who was last seen at police headquarters being interrogated with electric shocks and asphyxiation.That case sparked mass protests and threatened to undermine Rio's five-year strategy to regain control of more than 40 favela complexes that had previously been run by armed gangs. But tension has been eased by the arrests and de Oliveira's appointment as chief of police in Rocinha, a community of mostly poor, non-white residents overlooking some of the wealthiest neighbourhoods in Brazil.Major Pricilla \u2013 as she is best known \u2013 is the friendly, positive face of the pacification programme that she has helped to spearhead. She is in charge of hundreds of officers in one of the most violent police forces on the planet and is playing a prominent role in trying to shift perceptions of their tole.Veja Magazine named her Defender of the City. The US State Department gave her an \"outstanding leadership and courage\" award.In her five months in Rocinha, she has had to deal with murders, drug trafficking, gun running and frequent nightly shoot-outs between residents and police, not to mention the day-to-day task of liaising with community representatives.We meet on a day of relative calm in Rocinha at the make-shift police headquarters \u2013 a Lego-like structure of shipping containers high up by the forest line. The major is delayed by a long discussion with a man with a mohican who wants to organise a festival. For the infectiously positive de Oliveira such interactions are a sign of progress.\"Places like Rocinha used to be isolated, but now they have merged with the wider community. That has brought in big changes,\" she says as we sit between two of the concrete benefits \u2013 a new public toilet and football pitch. \"There is still crime as there is everywhere, but it has changed. The number of murders has gone down enormously.\"Although she was brought up in the middle-class Rio neighbourhood of Laranjeiras, de Oliveira has first-hand experience of the terror felt by victims of crime. In 2007 she was robbed, tied up and taken to a favela. \"That was the most frightening moment of my life. I was completely alone,\" she recalls. But it also proved to be a turning point. De Oliveira escaped, then returned to arrest her captors, bursting in on them with a gun. \"I guess that doesn't happen much in your country,\" she laughs.Her career has since followed a meteoric rise. In 2008, de Oliveira was put in charge of the first pacification operation in the Santa Marta favela, which proceeded peacefully and opened the path for social services and public investment.Rio de Janeiro's favelas, which are home to more than a fifth of the city's 6.3 million people, are a symbol of Brazil's acute inequality, murderous crime and stark social divisions. Although pacification targets only 40 of the city's 600 favelas, the operation is fraught with logistical, physical and political challenges.\"Without a doubt, this is the most ambitious policing project in the world,\" de Oliveira says. \"We have moved into areas that were long abandoned by public institutions. Because the state didn't take care of these communities, crime took over. The point of our programme is to return responsibility to the authorities.\"As the Amarildo case showed, it is far from smooth sailing. As well as occasional killings by and of police, there have been complaints that the authorities have stopped backing the initial force with long-term funds. De Oliveira acknowledges room for improvement. \"The politicians could be doing more to accelerate development. They should be bringing in social services as the same speed as UPP units as they did in Santa Marta.\"After impressive initial gains, there were signs last year that crime was once again starting to rise. Keeping on top of a fast-changing situation in a community of 67,000 residents takes its toll.\"There are lots of problems that require attention. Last night I finished at 10pm and was then called back in at 1am. I've been here since,\" says De Oliveira during our later afternoon interview. \"I'm exhausted but I love it. I'm very happy with the part I've played.\"Fitting in a personal life is difficult. Her boyfriend calls and while they chat, I'm drawn for the first time by her bright pink nail polish rather than the three stars on her shoulder. \"I can't tell him that I was called to come to work at 1am or he'll never want to marry me,\" she says with a smile after they hang up. \"Police life is very complicated.\"Relentlessly upbeat about the future, however, she says the coming year will see new steps forward for the pacification programme. \"My hope for 2014 is more peace,\" she says. \"As for my fears, well, I am aware of the difficulties of the pacification programme, but I have a very positive view. I can't say I'm afraid of anything.\"Additional reporting by Anna Kaiser", "tags": ["Portrait of Brazil 2014", "World news", "Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Voices of Brazil: the police chief pioneer"},{"date": "2014-01-26T06:29:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I have no photographs of my first holiday to Brazil \u2013 a two-week package deal in the early 90s including flights to Rio, a hotel in Copacabana and carnival tickets. I\u00a0decided not to take a\u00a0camera because I didn't want to \"stand out as a tourist\". But as I sat on the beach in my sensible swimsuit, white English thighs sizzling, my Lonely Planet guidebook propped open on my head as a sun hat, a crowd of children gathered, pointing, laughing and shouting \"Camar\u00e3o!\" (which means prawn). The notion that a camera would be the thing to mark me out as a hapless gringo seemed laughable.So, no photos to look at, but the memories are indelible: the lights from the favelas twinkling on the hillsides, the ground shaking in the sambadromo as the drummers marched towards us, the shock of seeing small children sleeping under flyovers, my first taste of passion fruit\u2026Each time I return to Brazil I fall in love with it again. Here's a guide to some of the highlights which await both football fans and those inspired by the wall-to-wall coverage to visit.SAO PAULOWhy go? S\u00e3o Paulo is hosting the World Cup opening ceremony and at least one England game (against Uruguay on 19 June). It has the most exciting cultural, culinary and nightlife scene in Latin America. Don't be daunted by the size of this sprawling metropolis \u2013 just pick a\u00a0neighbourhood and get a local to show you around. Vayable.com offers walking and cycling tours led by Paulistanos, or embark on a\u00a0Taste of S\u00e3o Paulo (tasteofsaopaulofoodtours.com) foodie walking tour.If you do only one thing Masp (masp.art.br) is home to the finest collection of western art in Latin America. At weekends the space beneath it is given over to an antiques and craft market, and street food, too.Where to hang out Sample two great Brazilian traditions \u2013 samba and feijoada (pork and bean stew) \u2013 at Bar Samba in Vila Madalena on a\u00a0Saturday (Rua Fidalga, 308, +55 11 3819 4619). The neighbourhood has lots of little galleries, bookshops and botecos (bars) to hang out in.Escape the crowds S\u00e3o Paulo is a\u00a0hard-working town, but on Sundays you can see its softer side by hiring a\u00a0bike and exploring the Ciclofaixas de Lazer \u2013 30km of car-free cycle lanes which link the major parks (ciclofaixa.com.br).RIO DE JANEIRONo trip to Brazil is complete without a\u00a0visit to Rio, a\u00a0city that turns the dial up to 11. All life can be found on the beaches of Copacabana, Ipanema and Leblon, from surfing street kids to strutting supermodels. Take the streetcar up to the bohemian neighbourhood of Santa Teresa, all arty caf\u00e9s and colonial charm, or hire a pedalo or bike at Rodrigo de Freitas Lagoon, Rio's version of Central Park.If you do only one thing It's hard to overstate the beauty of Rio's setting, its jungle-clad mountains and series of scalloped bays. Board the cable car to the top of Sugar Loaf Mountain (bondinho.com.br) at sunset, and you'll be in a\u00a0postcard.Where to hang out The Lapa district is Rio's nightlife hub. Every night samba bands busk on the streets or play in dance halls, such as Carioca Da Gema (Rua Mem de Sa, 79) or the slightly touristy (but fab) Rio Scenarium (Rua do Lavradio, 28).Escape the crowds Tijuca National Park is the world's largest urban forest, and it's located in the heart of Rio. Jungle Me Tours can arrange hiking tours through the rainforest and a climb to the top of Corcovado to see the iconic Christ the Redeemer statue (jungleme.com.br).MANAUSManaus will host England's first game of the tournament \u2013 the city was also overrun by rampaging Europeans during the 19th-century rubber boom, which left a legacy of grand buildings, such as the ornate Teatro Amazonas and the Rio Negro Palace. Today it's the jumping-off point for Amazon rainforest adventures. The launch in June of flights from London with Tap Air Portugal (flytap.com) will further raise this fast-growing city's profile.If you do only one thing Guided tours of the gold-domed Teatro Amazonas, built in 1896, run most days (best when the orchestra is rehearsing). People-watch at Pra\u00e7a S\u00e2o Sebasti\u00e2o, the square out in front.Where to hang out On the banks of the chocolate-coloured Rio Negro, Ponta Negra beach is popular for locals and tourists. Kiosks sell tropical juice, beer, caipirinhas and snacks, and there's often music from boi-bumba bands, the Amazon's answer to samba.Escape the crowds Manaus is a launchpad for riverboat adventures on the Rio Negro and Amazon \u2013 Swallows & Amazons organises cruises for all budgets (swallowsandamazonstours.com). Or book a few nights at a jungle lodge \u2013 at the Tariri Amazon Lodge outside Manaus, stay in thatched cabins on stilts (taririamazonlodge.com).SALVADORSultry Salvador, the heartland of Afro-Brazilian culture, was the main entry point for slaves from the African continent. Their legacy lives on in capoeira and spicy cuisine.If you do only one thing Take a\u00a0walking tour of the Pelourinho, a Unesco World Heritage Site (the neighbourhood still has an edge though). Here you'll find capoeira and drumming schools, many offering classes to tourists. On Tuesday nights there's a massive street party, including drumming group Olodum.Where to hang out Rio Vermelho is an up-and-coming area for nightlife with a bohemian flavour. Look out for the barracas do acaraj\u00e9 \u2013 stalls selling street foods.Escape the crowds Most people head north by bus to Bahia's golden beaches dotted with laid-back resorts. In the rainy season, which coincides with the World Cup, head to the wild Chapada Diamantina. Fly from Salvador to Len\u00e7\u00f3is, where agencies provide walking guides and camping gear.BELO HORIZONTEFootball fans visiting for England's game against Costa Rica on 24 June should schedule in a few days in this likeable city ringed by mountains with a lively cultural scene, striking modernist architecture, a handful of world-class museums and galleries, great food and some of the best nightlife outside of Rio and S\u00e3o Paulo.If you do only one thing The Pampulha complex is a\u00a0man-made lake surrounded by modern buildings, several designed by Brazil's most famous architect, Oscar Niemeyer. It's home to the museum of modern art, the university and the S\u00e3o Francisco de Assis church. Near the lake you'll find the botanical gardens, zoo and the Mineir\u00e3o football stadium.Where to hang out The city is famed for its botecos which compete for best bar snacks in the annual Comida di Buteco festival. Experience the lively bar scene around the Pra\u00e7a da Savassi, where the city's bright young things flock. Escape the crowds Inhotim is one of Brazil's most extraordinary places: an open-air contemporary art gallery surrounded by botanical gardens and coffee plantations, a\u00a090-minute drive away (inhotim.org.br). Those with time to spare should visit a nearby colonial town: Ouro Preto and Tiradentes are beautiful and easily reached by public transport.", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel", "Football"], "title": "Highlights of Brazil | Joanne O'Connor"},{"date": "2014-01-26T08:00:37Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Heavily made up and dressed in a white bathrobe and heels, Isis Valverde marches into a\u00a0suite at Rio's Copacabana Palace, stretches out an elegant hand to greet me and says, with a winning smile: \"Looks like a gringo, huh?\"She could be forgiven a little grandeza: at just 26, the actor is already one of the most famous women in Brazil \u2013 a star of novelas, or soap operas, that the country watches every night with such relish. \"Our novela is what cinema is abroad. It is very well done. There is a lot of money involved,\" she says. \"A lot more than there is in cinema, which is a great shame, because I am in love with cinema.\"Valverde has made just one film to date \u2013 a\u00a0\"Brazilian Western\" called Faroeste Caboclo \u2013 and she previously declined a test for the James Bond film Casino Royale as she was not yet fluent in English, she says, punctuating her rapid-fire Portuguese with frequent husky laughs, and occasionally referring to herself in the third person.She has just finished filming a mini-series called Amores Roubados (Stolen Loves) for Brazil's dominant Globo network, to which she is exclusively contracted, and is at the Copacabana Palace for a high-glamour photoshoot for a Brazilian newspaper.This is a role she relishes. \"See Isis, full of Dolce e Gabbana, in an amazing hotel,\" she says. \"It shows the different faces you have, in a different way: 'Oh, she's modern, she also likes fashion.'\" As Valverde observes, the photoshoot is a vivid contrast to her most famous role to date \u2013 that of Suelen, a brash, loud and hugely entertaining footballer's girlfriend from a poor Rio suburb in the hit 2012 novela Avenida Brasil.The soap caught the imagination of Brazilians with its boisterous characterisation of the lives of the country's \"Class C\" \u2013 a colourful and consumerist lower-middle class created after a decade of economic advancement enabled millions of Brazilians to come out of poverty and become consumers. More than half the population is now classified as Class C, but they had never been so expertly depicted in a\u00a0soap before.Clad in skin-tight, colourful leggings, heels and crop tops, Suelen clacked and wise-talked her way into Brazilians hearts, and a new slang word was coined: periguete. \"She is that kind of woman who is more self-interested, who wears clothes to show her body, who always likes to wear short, clingy clothes, she is a very vain woman,\" Valverde explains.Like the novela, which has since been sold to over 100 countries, the word \"periguete\" took off in Brazil \u2013 there was even a\u00a0samba written about it. But despite \u2013 or perhaps because \u2013 of Suelen's inner gold-digger, the character resounded in an extrovert culture which is deeply macho, but which also prizes women with powerful personalities. \"The strength of a woman. The seduction of a woman. The way she is potent. I think the character brought this,\" says Valverde.Valverde grew up in the small town of Aiuruoca, in the interior of Minas Gerais state. Her father was a chemist and her mother a lawyer and former actor. Isis was signed up for a Globo soap at 17. She always wanted to be an actor. \"I think that it is one of the most beautiful expressions that exists, because you live your life, and you live various others,\" she says.When a million Brazilians took to the streets in June last year to protest on a range of issues, from failing public services to the costs of staging next year's World Cup, she joined them. \"Brazil has to start to focus more on education, on health, on teachers' salaries,\" she says. \"I think that education and health are the principal points for a society to evolve and grow.\"Money spent on stadiums could have been better invested, she continues, but she remains cautiously optimistic about the World Cup. \"There is a real lack of infrastructure. But I think it will be good for the country.\"Instead, she called for better salaries for teachers and an end to a constitutional amendment called PEC 37, which had been passing through Congress, and which would have taken the power of prosecution away from Brazilian public prosecutors and given it to police. PEC 37 was seen as a blueprint for yet more corruption. But Congress threw the amendment out following the protests \u2013 which Valverde saw as a success.\"We have to ask for few things. If you ask for a whole list, they end up doing nothing,\" she adds with a throaty laugh. \"But Brazil's endemic corruption is a much bigger problem. \"I think it's a big mess. \"But we are Brazilians and we never give up.\"", "tags": ["Portrait of Brazil 2014"], "title": "Voices of Brazil: the actor Brazilians love"},{"date": "2014-01-26T08:01:14Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When the world's most ambitious policing operation was shaken last year by reports that officers tortured and killed a resident in Rio de Janeiro's biggest favela, the authorities knew exactly who to call.Major Pricilla de Oliveira Azevedo \u2013 a 35-year-old pioneer of Rio's \"pacification\" programme \u2013 was appointed to handle the political fall-out from the arrest of her predecessor and 12 other officers, who were charged with the murder of Amarildo de Souza, a bricklayer who was last seen at police headquarters being interrogated with electric shocks and asphyxiation.That case sparked mass protests and threatened to undermine Rio's five-year strategy to regain control of more than 40 favela complexes that had previously been run by armed gangs. But tension has been eased by the arrests and de Oliveira's appointment as chief of police in Rocinha, a community of mostly poor, non-white residents overlooking some of the wealthiest neighbourhoods in Brazil.Major Pricilla \u2013 as she is best known \u2013 is the friendly, positive face of the pacification programme that she has helped to spearhead. She is in charge of hundreds of officers in one of the most violent police forces on the planet and is playing a prominent role in trying to shift perceptions of their tole.Veja Magazine named her Defender of the City. The US State Department gave her an \"outstanding leadership and courage\" award.In her five months in Rocinha, she has had to deal with murders, drug trafficking, gun running and frequent nightly shoot-outs between residents and police, not to mention the day-to-day task of liaising with community representatives.We meet on a day of relative calm in Rocinha at the make-shift police headquarters \u2013 a Lego-like structure of shipping containers high up by the forest line. The major is delayed by a long discussion with a man with a mohican who wants to organise a festival. For the infectiously positive de Oliveira such interactions are a sign of progress.\"Places like Rocinha used to be isolated, but now they have merged with the wider community. That has brought in big changes,\" she says as we sit between two of the concrete benefits \u2013 a new public toilet and football pitch. \"There is still crime as there is everywhere, but it has changed. The number of murders has gone down enormously.\"Although she was brought up in the middle-class Rio neighbourhood of Laranjeiras, de Oliveira has first-hand experience of the terror felt by victims of crime. In 2007 she was robbed, tied up and taken to a favela. \"That was the most frightening moment of my life. I was completely alone,\" she recalls. But it also proved to be a turning point. De Oliveira escaped, then returned to arrest her captors, bursting in on them with a gun. \"I guess that doesn't happen much in your country,\" she laughs.Her career has since followed a meteoric rise. In 2008, de Oliveira was put in charge of the first pacification operation in the Santa Marta favela, which proceeded peacefully and opened the path for social services and public investment.Rio de Janeiro's favelas, which are home to more than a fifth of the city's 6.3 million people, are a symbol of Brazil's acute inequality, murderous crime and stark social divisions. Although pacification targets only 40 of the city's 600 favelas, the operation is fraught with logistical, physical and political challenges.\"Without a doubt, this is the most ambitious policing project in the world,\" de Oliveira says. \"We have moved into areas that were long abandoned by public institutions. Because the state didn't take care of these communities, crime took over. The point of our programme is to return responsibility to the authorities.\"As the Amarildo case showed, it is far from smooth sailing. As well as occasional killings by and of police, there have been complaints that the authorities have stopped backing the initial force with long-term funds. De Oliveira acknowledges room for improvement. \"The politicians could be doing more to accelerate development. They should be bringing in social services as the same speed as UPP units as they did in Santa Marta.\"After impressive initial gains, there were signs last year that crime was once again starting to rise. Keeping on top of a fast-changing situation in a community of 67,000 residents takes its toll.\"There are lots of problems that require attention. Last night I finished at 10pm and was then called back in at 1am. I've been here since,\" says De Oliveira during our later afternoon interview. \"I'm exhausted but I love it. I'm very happy with the part I've played.\"Fitting in a personal life is difficult. Her boyfriend calls and while they chat, I'm drawn for the first time by her bright pink nail polish rather than the three stars on her shoulder. \"I can't tell him that I was called to come to work at 1am or he'll never want to marry me,\" she says with a smile after they hang up. \"Police life is very complicated.\"Relentlessly upbeat about the future, however, she says the coming year will see new steps forward for the pacification programme. \"My hope for 2014 is more peace,\" she says. \"As for my fears, well, I am aware of the difficulties of the pacification programme, but I have a very positive view. I can't say I'm afraid of anything.\"Additional reporting by Anna Kaiser", "tags": ["Portrait of Brazil 2014", "World news", "Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Voices of Brazil: the police chief pioneer"},{"date": "2014-01-26T08:00:56Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Eighty-six years old and looking not a\u00a0shade over 60, Divaldo Franco is Brazil's most important spiritual medium, selling more than 10m books worldwide. His home is in the middle of one of Brazil's most violent favelas, Pau da Lima, on the outskirts of Salvador. But Franco's world is serene and peaceful.It's set inside the physical embodiment of his life's work, the Mans\u00e3o do Caminho \u2013 an institution which provides housing, education and care for children and young people. Where once stood a giant rubbish dump the Mans\u00e3o is a vast, ultra-modern community complex. The building is regarded as untouchable by the drug traffickers as many of them, or their families, use its services.Hundreds of mothers drop their kids off every day at the free cr\u00e8che. More than 30,000 children are estimated to have passed through the Mans\u00e3o over the past 60 years. A large part is financed by the sale of Franco's books. He claims to channel spirits and transcribe their words in a\u00a0method known as \"psychography\".It all came about because of a vision he had in 1948, aged 21. \"I saw a huge number of children and an old man,\" he recalls. \"I\u00a0went up to the elderly man. He turned around and I realised it was me in old age. And a voice said to me: 'This is what you will do with your life.'\"He was later introduced to the doctrine of spiritism, coined by the French writer Allan Kardec in 1857, which believes in the existence of, and communication with, spirits through mediums. \"Spiritism is growing in Brazil because it attends to the cultural, emotional and spiritual needs of society,\" he says.Over the years, Franco has adopted more than 600 abandoned children, many of whom now have their own children and grandchildren, and Franco sees hope in that youngest generation.\"We are living through a remarkable moment,\" he says. \"The country has woken up to its responsibilities and the people are slowly winning their rights as citizens and moving towards democratic freedoms and social justice. The country has consciously prepared for 2014, when the whole world will be following the football, to show that the nation has higher values, above those of carnival or even football, and that it is a strong nation that is ready to take on the here and now.\"Despite his age, the diminutive Franco still packs his own suitcase and travels the world alone, as he has done for decades, delivering hundreds of lectures.\"These trips open doors for those who will come in the future,\" he says. \"My message is of love, of hope, of caring. To say to people that our lives have a meaning and that we are not on the Earth to suffer.'\"", "tags": ["Portrait of Brazil 2014"], "title": "Voices of Brazil: the spiritual medium"},{"date": "2014-01-26T06:29:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I have no photographs of my first holiday to Brazil \u2013 a two-week package deal in the early 90s including flights to Rio, a hotel in Copacabana and carnival tickets. I\u00a0decided not to take a\u00a0camera because I didn't want to \"stand out as a tourist\". But as I sat on the beach in my sensible swimsuit, white English thighs sizzling, my Lonely Planet guidebook propped open on my head as a sun hat, a crowd of children gathered, pointing, laughing and shouting \"Camar\u00e3o!\" (which means prawn). The notion that a camera would be the thing to mark me out as a hapless gringo seemed laughable.So, no photos to look at, but the memories are indelible: the lights from the favelas twinkling on the hillsides, the ground shaking in the sambadromo as the drummers marched towards us, the shock of seeing small children sleeping under flyovers, my first taste of passion fruit\u2026Each time I return to Brazil I fall in love with it again. Here's a guide to some of the highlights which await both football fans and those inspired by the wall-to-wall coverage to visit.SAO PAULOWhy go? S\u00e3o Paulo is hosting the World Cup opening ceremony and at least one England game (against Uruguay on 19 June). It has the most exciting cultural, culinary and nightlife scene in Latin America. Don't be daunted by the size of this sprawling metropolis \u2013 just pick a\u00a0neighbourhood and get a local to show you around. Vayable.com offers walking and cycling tours led by Paulistanos, or embark on a\u00a0Taste of S\u00e3o Paulo (tasteofsaopaulofoodtours.com) foodie walking tour.If you do only one thing Masp (masp.art.br) is home to the finest collection of western art in Latin America. At weekends the space beneath it is given over to an antiques and craft market, and street food, too.Where to hang out Sample two great Brazilian traditions \u2013 samba and feijoada (pork and bean stew) \u2013 at Bar Samba in Vila Madalena on a\u00a0Saturday (Rua Fidalga, 308, +55 11 3819 4619). The neighbourhood has lots of little galleries, bookshops and botecos (bars) to hang out in.Escape the crowds S\u00e3o Paulo is a\u00a0hard-working town, but on Sundays you can see its softer side by hiring a\u00a0bike and exploring the Ciclofaixas de Lazer \u2013 30km of car-free cycle lanes which link the major parks (ciclofaixa.com.br).RIO DE JANEIRONo trip to Brazil is complete without a\u00a0visit to Rio, a\u00a0city that turns the dial up to 11. All life can be found on the beaches of Copacabana, Ipanema and Leblon, from surfing street kids to strutting supermodels. Take the streetcar up to the bohemian neighbourhood of Santa Teresa, all arty caf\u00e9s and colonial charm, or hire a pedalo or bike at Rodrigo de Freitas Lagoon, Rio's version of Central Park.If you do only one thing It's hard to overstate the beauty of Rio's setting, its jungle-clad mountains and series of scalloped bays. Board the cable car to the top of Sugar Loaf Mountain (bondinho.com.br) at sunset, and you'll be in a\u00a0postcard.Where to hang out The Lapa district is Rio's nightlife hub. Every night samba bands busk on the streets or play in dance halls, such as Carioca Da Gema (Rua Mem de Sa, 79) or the slightly touristy (but fab) Rio Scenarium (Rua do Lavradio, 28).Escape the crowds Tijuca National Park is the world's largest urban forest, and it's located in the heart of Rio. Jungle Me Tours can arrange hiking tours through the rainforest and a climb to the top of Corcovado to see the iconic Christ the Redeemer statue (jungleme.com.br).MANAUSManaus will host England's first game of the tournament \u2013 the city was also overrun by rampaging Europeans during the 19th-century rubber boom, which left a legacy of grand buildings, such as the ornate Teatro Amazonas and the Rio Negro Palace. Today it's the jumping-off point for Amazon rainforest adventures. The launch in June of flights from London with Tap Air Portugal (flytap.com) will further raise this fast-growing city's profile.If you do only one thing Guided tours of the gold-domed Teatro Amazonas, built in 1896, run most days (best when the orchestra is rehearsing). People-watch at Pra\u00e7a S\u00e2o Sebasti\u00e2o, the square out in front.Where to hang out On the banks of the chocolate-coloured Rio Negro, Ponta Negra beach is popular for locals and tourists. Kiosks sell tropical juice, beer, caipirinhas and snacks, and there's often music from boi-bumba bands, the Amazon's answer to samba.Escape the crowds Manaus is a launchpad for riverboat adventures on the Rio Negro and Amazon \u2013 Swallows & Amazons organises cruises for all budgets (swallowsandamazonstours.com). Or book a few nights at a jungle lodge \u2013 at the Tariri Amazon Lodge outside Manaus, stay in thatched cabins on stilts (taririamazonlodge.com).SALVADORSultry Salvador, the heartland of Afro-Brazilian culture, was the main entry point for slaves from the African continent. Their legacy lives on in capoeira and spicy cuisine.If you do only one thing Take a\u00a0walking tour of the Pelourinho, a Unesco World Heritage Site (the neighbourhood still has an edge though). Here you'll find capoeira and drumming schools, many offering classes to tourists. On Tuesday nights there's a massive street party, including drumming group Olodum.Where to hang out Rio Vermelho is an up-and-coming area for nightlife with a bohemian flavour. Look out for the barracas do acaraj\u00e9 \u2013 stalls selling street foods.Escape the crowds Most people head north by bus to Bahia's golden beaches dotted with laid-back resorts. In the rainy season, which coincides with the World Cup, head to the wild Chapada Diamantina. Fly from Salvador to Len\u00e7\u00f3is, where agencies provide walking guides and camping gear.BELO HORIZONTEFootball fans visiting for England's game against Costa Rica on 24 June should schedule in a few days in this likeable city ringed by mountains with a lively cultural scene, striking modernist architecture, a handful of world-class museums and galleries, great food and some of the best nightlife outside of Rio and S\u00e3o Paulo.If you do only one thing The Pampulha complex is a\u00a0man-made lake surrounded by modern buildings, several designed by Brazil's most famous architect, Oscar Niemeyer. It's home to the museum of modern art, the university and the S\u00e3o Francisco de Assis church. Near the lake you'll find the botanical gardens, zoo and the Mineir\u00e3o football stadium.Where to hang out The city is famed for its botecos which compete for best bar snacks in the annual Comida di Buteco festival. Experience the lively bar scene around the Pra\u00e7a da Savassi, where the city's bright young things flock. Escape the crowds Inhotim is one of Brazil's most extraordinary places: an open-air contemporary art gallery surrounded by botanical gardens and coffee plantations, a\u00a090-minute drive away (inhotim.org.br). Those with time to spare should visit a nearby colonial town: Ouro Preto and Tiradentes are beautiful and easily reached by public transport.", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel", "Football"], "title": "Highlights of Brazil | Joanne O'Connor"},{"date": "2014-01-26T08:00:37Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Heavily made up and dressed in a white bathrobe and heels, Isis Valverde marches into a\u00a0suite at Rio's Copacabana Palace, stretches out an elegant hand to greet me and says, with a winning smile: \"Looks like a gringo, huh?\"She could be forgiven a little grandeza: at just 26, the actor is already one of the most famous women in Brazil \u2013 a star of novelas, or soap operas, that the country watches every night with such relish. \"Our novela is what cinema is abroad. It is very well done. There is a lot of money involved,\" she says. \"A lot more than there is in cinema, which is a great shame, because I am in love with cinema.\"Valverde has made just one film to date \u2013 a\u00a0\"Brazilian Western\" called Faroeste Caboclo \u2013 and she previously declined a test for the James Bond film Casino Royale as she was not yet fluent in English, she says, punctuating her rapid-fire Portuguese with frequent husky laughs, and occasionally referring to herself in the third person.She has just finished filming a mini-series called Amores Roubados (Stolen Loves) for Brazil's dominant Globo network, to which she is exclusively contracted, and is at the Copacabana Palace for a high-glamour photoshoot for a Brazilian newspaper.This is a role she relishes. \"See Isis, full of Dolce e Gabbana, in an amazing hotel,\" she says. \"It shows the different faces you have, in a different way: 'Oh, she's modern, she also likes fashion.'\" As Valverde observes, the photoshoot is a vivid contrast to her most famous role to date \u2013 that of Suelen, a brash, loud and hugely entertaining footballer's girlfriend from a poor Rio suburb in the hit 2012 novela Avenida Brasil.The soap caught the imagination of Brazilians with its boisterous characterisation of the lives of the country's \"Class C\" \u2013 a colourful and consumerist lower-middle class created after a decade of economic advancement enabled millions of Brazilians to come out of poverty and become consumers. More than half the population is now classified as Class C, but they had never been so expertly depicted in a\u00a0soap before.Clad in skin-tight, colourful leggings, heels and crop tops, Suelen clacked and wise-talked her way into Brazilians hearts, and a new slang word was coined: periguete. \"She is that kind of woman who is more self-interested, who wears clothes to show her body, who always likes to wear short, clingy clothes, she is a very vain woman,\" Valverde explains.Like the novela, which has since been sold to over 100 countries, the word \"periguete\" took off in Brazil \u2013 there was even a\u00a0samba written about it. But despite \u2013 or perhaps because \u2013 of Suelen's inner gold-digger, the character resounded in an extrovert culture which is deeply macho, but which also prizes women with powerful personalities. \"The strength of a woman. The seduction of a woman. The way she is potent. I think the character brought this,\" says Valverde.Valverde grew up in the small town of Aiuruoca, in the interior of Minas Gerais state. Her father was a chemist and her mother a lawyer and former actor. Isis was signed up for a Globo soap at 17. She always wanted to be an actor. \"I think that it is one of the most beautiful expressions that exists, because you live your life, and you live various others,\" she says.When a million Brazilians took to the streets in June last year to protest on a range of issues, from failing public services to the costs of staging next year's World Cup, she joined them. \"Brazil has to start to focus more on education, on health, on teachers' salaries,\" she says. \"I think that education and health are the principal points for a society to evolve and grow.\"Money spent on stadiums could have been better invested, she continues, but she remains cautiously optimistic about the World Cup. \"There is a real lack of infrastructure. But I think it will be good for the country.\"Instead, she called for better salaries for teachers and an end to a constitutional amendment called PEC 37, which had been passing through Congress, and which would have taken the power of prosecution away from Brazilian public prosecutors and given it to police. PEC 37 was seen as a blueprint for yet more corruption. But Congress threw the amendment out following the protests \u2013 which Valverde saw as a success.\"We have to ask for few things. If you ask for a whole list, they end up doing nothing,\" she adds with a throaty laugh. \"But Brazil's endemic corruption is a much bigger problem. \"I think it's a big mess. \"But we are Brazilians and we never give up.\"", "tags": ["Portrait of Brazil 2014"], "title": "Voices of Brazil: the actor Brazilians love"},{"date": "2014-01-26T08:01:14Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When the world's most ambitious policing operation was shaken last year by reports that officers tortured and killed a resident in Rio de Janeiro's biggest favela, the authorities knew exactly who to call.Major Pricilla de Oliveira Azevedo \u2013 a 35-year-old pioneer of Rio's \"pacification\" programme \u2013 was appointed to handle the political fall-out from the arrest of her predecessor and 12 other officers, who were charged with the murder of Amarildo de Souza, a bricklayer who was last seen at police headquarters being interrogated with electric shocks and asphyxiation.That case sparked mass protests and threatened to undermine Rio's five-year strategy to regain control of more than 40 favela complexes that had previously been run by armed gangs. But tension has been eased by the arrests and de Oliveira's appointment as chief of police in Rocinha, a community of mostly poor, non-white residents overlooking some of the wealthiest neighbourhoods in Brazil.Major Pricilla \u2013 as she is best known \u2013 is the friendly, positive face of the pacification programme that she has helped to spearhead. She is in charge of hundreds of officers in one of the most violent police forces on the planet and is playing a prominent role in trying to shift perceptions of their tole.Veja Magazine named her Defender of the City. The US State Department gave her an \"outstanding leadership and courage\" award.In her five months in Rocinha, she has had to deal with murders, drug trafficking, gun running and frequent nightly shoot-outs between residents and police, not to mention the day-to-day task of liaising with community representatives.We meet on a day of relative calm in Rocinha at the make-shift police headquarters \u2013 a Lego-like structure of shipping containers high up by the forest line. The major is delayed by a long discussion with a man with a mohican who wants to organise a festival. For the infectiously positive de Oliveira such interactions are a sign of progress.\"Places like Rocinha used to be isolated, but now they have merged with the wider community. That has brought in big changes,\" she says as we sit between two of the concrete benefits \u2013 a new public toilet and football pitch. \"There is still crime as there is everywhere, but it has changed. The number of murders has gone down enormously.\"Although she was brought up in the middle-class Rio neighbourhood of Laranjeiras, de Oliveira has first-hand experience of the terror felt by victims of crime. In 2007 she was robbed, tied up and taken to a favela. \"That was the most frightening moment of my life. I was completely alone,\" she recalls. But it also proved to be a turning point. De Oliveira escaped, then returned to arrest her captors, bursting in on them with a gun. \"I guess that doesn't happen much in your country,\" she laughs.Her career has since followed a meteoric rise. In 2008, de Oliveira was put in charge of the first pacification operation in the Santa Marta favela, which proceeded peacefully and opened the path for social services and public investment.Rio de Janeiro's favelas, which are home to more than a fifth of the city's 6.3 million people, are a symbol of Brazil's acute inequality, murderous crime and stark social divisions. Although pacification targets only 40 of the city's 600 favelas, the operation is fraught with logistical, physical and political challenges.\"Without a doubt, this is the most ambitious policing project in the world,\" de Oliveira says. \"We have moved into areas that were long abandoned by public institutions. Because the state didn't take care of these communities, crime took over. The point of our programme is to return responsibility to the authorities.\"As the Amarildo case showed, it is far from smooth sailing. As well as occasional killings by and of police, there have been complaints that the authorities have stopped backing the initial force with long-term funds. De Oliveira acknowledges room for improvement. \"The politicians could be doing more to accelerate development. They should be bringing in social services as the same speed as UPP units as they did in Santa Marta.\"After impressive initial gains, there were signs last year that crime was once again starting to rise. Keeping on top of a fast-changing situation in a community of 67,000 residents takes its toll.\"There are lots of problems that require attention. Last night I finished at 10pm and was then called back in at 1am. I've been here since,\" says De Oliveira during our later afternoon interview. \"I'm exhausted but I love it. I'm very happy with the part I've played.\"Fitting in a personal life is difficult. Her boyfriend calls and while they chat, I'm drawn for the first time by her bright pink nail polish rather than the three stars on her shoulder. \"I can't tell him that I was called to come to work at 1am or he'll never want to marry me,\" she says with a smile after they hang up. \"Police life is very complicated.\"Relentlessly upbeat about the future, however, she says the coming year will see new steps forward for the pacification programme. \"My hope for 2014 is more peace,\" she says. \"As for my fears, well, I am aware of the difficulties of the pacification programme, but I have a very positive view. I can't say I'm afraid of anything.\"Additional reporting by Anna Kaiser", "tags": ["Portrait of Brazil 2014", "World news", "Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Voices of Brazil: the police chief pioneer"},{"date": "2014-01-26T08:00:56Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Eighty-six years old and looking not a\u00a0shade over 60, Divaldo Franco is Brazil's most important spiritual medium, selling more than 10m books worldwide. His home is in the middle of one of Brazil's most violent favelas, Pau da Lima, on the outskirts of Salvador. But Franco's world is serene and peaceful.It's set inside the physical embodiment of his life's work, the Mans\u00e3o do Caminho \u2013 an institution which provides housing, education and care for children and young people. Where once stood a giant rubbish dump the Mans\u00e3o is a vast, ultra-modern community complex. The building is regarded as untouchable by the drug traffickers as many of them, or their families, use its services.Hundreds of mothers drop their kids off every day at the free cr\u00e8che. More than 30,000 children are estimated to have passed through the Mans\u00e3o over the past 60 years. A large part is financed by the sale of Franco's books. He claims to channel spirits and transcribe their words in a\u00a0method known as \"psychography\".It all came about because of a vision he had in 1948, aged 21. \"I saw a huge number of children and an old man,\" he recalls. \"I\u00a0went up to the elderly man. He turned around and I realised it was me in old age. And a voice said to me: 'This is what you will do with your life.'\"He was later introduced to the doctrine of spiritism, coined by the French writer Allan Kardec in 1857, which believes in the existence of, and communication with, spirits through mediums. \"Spiritism is growing in Brazil because it attends to the cultural, emotional and spiritual needs of society,\" he says.Over the years, Franco has adopted more than 600 abandoned children, many of whom now have their own children and grandchildren, and Franco sees hope in that youngest generation.\"We are living through a remarkable moment,\" he says. \"The country has woken up to its responsibilities and the people are slowly winning their rights as citizens and moving towards democratic freedoms and social justice. The country has consciously prepared for 2014, when the whole world will be following the football, to show that the nation has higher values, above those of carnival or even football, and that it is a strong nation that is ready to take on the here and now.\"Despite his age, the diminutive Franco still packs his own suitcase and travels the world alone, as he has done for decades, delivering hundreds of lectures.\"These trips open doors for those who will come in the future,\" he says. \"My message is of love, of hope, of caring. To say to people that our lives have a meaning and that we are not on the Earth to suffer.'\"", "tags": ["Portrait of Brazil 2014"], "title": "Voices of Brazil: the spiritual medium"},{"date": "2014-01-26T08:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is hosting a back-to-back World Cup and Olympics. When it was announced, the then-president Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva summed up the mood. \"Our hour has arrived,\" he proclaimed to cheers in 2009.Few doubted it at the time. Long dismissed as the land of unfulfilled potential, Brazil appeared to be on an unstoppable winning streak. The economy was booming, poverty falling, the destruction of the Amazon was slowing and Lula was one of the most popular presidents in the world. The long-held belief that \"God is Brazilian\" seemed to ring true. But five years on, with Brazil's hour in the global spotlight imminent, the divine touch seems to have deserted this nation. Last June's street protests \u2013 the biggest in a generation \u2013 highlighted dissatisfaction with the dire public services, political corruption, police violence and wasteful spending on stadiums. Since 2011 the economy has slowed dramatically. Environmental concerns have been put on the back burner. Dam and mining megaprojects are eating into land owned by indigenous tribes. Conservationists appear increasingly sidelined and Amazon clearance has suffered its sharpest uptick in a decade.Throw in delays and deaths at stadium construction sites, shoddy infrastructure, high murder rates and a presidential election, and it is clear that Brazil could come out of 2014 looking a lot worse than it went in. Just as likely, though, is that the government, now led by Dilma Rousseff, will muddle through, bend the rules a little and try to make everyone happy with a creative last-minute fudge. Such is the culture of the jeitinho Brasileiro \u2013 \"the Brazilian short cut\".We can expect to weigh up that approach a great deal in 2014 as the world dwells long enough on Brazil to go beyond the old stereotypes of carnival, coffee, beaches and football.No single image, of course, could ever do justice to this nation. More than twice as large as Europe, Brazil has a population of 199 million, made up of descendants of colonial settlers, their slaves, survivors of the indigenous tribes they decimated and 20th-century waves of migration from Japan, Lebanon, Europe and elsewhere.The predominantly white elites of Rio de Janeiro, S\u00e3o Paulo and Brasilia enjoy a\u00a0standard of living as good as anywhere on the planet. But the masses in megacities such as Salvador and Recife are plagued by some of the world's highest rates of murder and crack addiction. In rural areas, plantation owners have a grip on local politics in the northeast that is little short of feudal, while the soy and cattle barons of the interior push landless peasants and Indian communities further to the margins.A more positive and common story is that of the numerous poor communities whose lives have been significantly improved in recent years by cash transfers from the government. But not everyone wants more cash and civilisation. Brazil is also still home to some of the world's last uncontacted tribes.Fully understanding what makes such a\u00a0country tick in a single story is futile. Instead, this series of interviews presents a snapshot of Brazil as it enters this pivotal year. Many of the individuals are little known in the outside world, but they highlight trends in society.We interview, among many others, the politician who has earned plaudits for standing on a platform of gay rights. We talk to a health worker \u2013 one of many in the public sector who believes that dire services are a major cause of unrest \u2013 and a member of the M\u00eddia Ninja collective challenging the way news organisations cover social activism.In the world of culture, we skip samba and bossanova to meet a leading influence in funk carioca, the sound that has spread from favela parties to the mainstream. We also interview Isis Valverde, an actor and campaigner for social equality.For a take on the spiritual life of the nation, the alternative is still further from conventionality. Brazil is often described as the world's biggest Catholic nation, but that is only half the story. Divaldo Franco, a spiritual medium who claims to speak to the dead and who has adopted more than 600 abandoned children, is among the most popular figures in the country. On the environment and human rights side we talk to a tribal leader, and for sport we introduce Ca\u00e7a-Rato \u2013 a striker who rose from catching rats as a child to scoring the goal that secured promotion for Santa Cruz.We hope to introduce some intriguing characters and highlight what may well be Brazil's defining characteristic: diversity. Socially liberal, religiously conservative, politically progressive and economically divided, this country defies easy categorisation. Whether Brazil's time has indeed come, this year should at least leave the world with a broader view of what it represents.", "tags": ["Portrait of Brazil 2014", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news", "World Cup 2014", "World Cup", "Football"], "title": "Voices of Brazil: 'Our hour has arrived'"},{"date": "2014-01-26T06:29:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I have no photographs of my first holiday to Brazil \u2013 a two-week package deal in the early 90s including flights to Rio, a hotel in Copacabana and carnival tickets. I\u00a0decided not to take a\u00a0camera because I didn't want to \"stand out as a tourist\". But as I sat on the beach in my sensible swimsuit, white English thighs sizzling, my Lonely Planet guidebook propped open on my head as a sun hat, a crowd of children gathered, pointing, laughing and shouting \"Camar\u00e3o!\" (which means prawn). The notion that a camera would be the thing to mark me out as a hapless gringo seemed laughable.So, no photos to look at, but the memories are indelible: the lights from the favelas twinkling on the hillsides, the ground shaking in the sambadromo as the drummers marched towards us, the shock of seeing small children sleeping under flyovers, my first taste of passion fruit\u2026Each time I return to Brazil I fall in love with it again. Here's a guide to some of the highlights which await both football fans and those inspired by the wall-to-wall coverage to visit.SAO PAULOWhy go? S\u00e3o Paulo is hosting the World Cup opening ceremony and at least one England game (against Uruguay on 19 June). It has the most exciting cultural, culinary and nightlife scene in Latin America. Don't be daunted by the size of this sprawling metropolis \u2013 just pick a\u00a0neighbourhood and get a local to show you around. Vayable.com offers walking and cycling tours led by Paulistanos, or embark on a\u00a0Taste of S\u00e3o Paulo (tasteofsaopaulofoodtours.com) foodie walking tour.If you do only one thing Masp (masp.art.br) is home to the finest collection of western art in Latin America. At weekends the space beneath it is given over to an antiques and craft market, and street food, too.Where to hang out Sample two great Brazilian traditions \u2013 samba and feijoada (pork and bean stew) \u2013 at Bar Samba in Vila Madalena on a\u00a0Saturday (Rua Fidalga, 308, +55 11 3819 4619). The neighbourhood has lots of little galleries, bookshops and botecos (bars) to hang out in.Escape the crowds S\u00e3o Paulo is a\u00a0hard-working town, but on Sundays you can see its softer side by hiring a\u00a0bike and exploring the Ciclofaixas de Lazer \u2013 30km of car-free cycle lanes which link the major parks (ciclofaixa.com.br).RIO DE JANEIRONo trip to Brazil is complete without a\u00a0visit to Rio, a\u00a0city that turns the dial up to 11. All life can be found on the beaches of Copacabana, Ipanema and Leblon, from surfing street kids to strutting supermodels. Take the streetcar up to the bohemian neighbourhood of Santa Teresa, all arty caf\u00e9s and colonial charm, or hire a pedalo or bike at Rodrigo de Freitas Lagoon, Rio's version of Central Park.If you do only one thing It's hard to overstate the beauty of Rio's setting, its jungle-clad mountains and series of scalloped bays. Board the cable car to the top of Sugar Loaf Mountain (bondinho.com.br) at sunset, and you'll be in a\u00a0postcard.Where to hang out The Lapa district is Rio's nightlife hub. Every night samba bands busk on the streets or play in dance halls, such as Carioca Da Gema (Rua Mem de Sa, 79) or the slightly touristy (but fab) Rio Scenarium (Rua do Lavradio, 28).Escape the crowds Tijuca National Park is the world's largest urban forest, and it's located in the heart of Rio. Jungle Me Tours can arrange hiking tours through the rainforest and a climb to the top of Corcovado to see the iconic Christ the Redeemer statue (jungleme.com.br).MANAUSManaus will host England's first game of the tournament \u2013 the city was also overrun by rampaging Europeans during the 19th-century rubber boom, which left a legacy of grand buildings, such as the ornate Teatro Amazonas and the Rio Negro Palace. Today it's the jumping-off point for Amazon rainforest adventures. The launch in June of flights from London with Tap Air Portugal (flytap.com) will further raise this fast-growing city's profile.If you do only one thing Guided tours of the gold-domed Teatro Amazonas, built in 1896, run most days (best when the orchestra is rehearsing). People-watch at Pra\u00e7a S\u00e2o Sebasti\u00e2o, the square out in front.Where to hang out On the banks of the chocolate-coloured Rio Negro, Ponta Negra beach is popular for locals and tourists. Kiosks sell tropical juice, beer, caipirinhas and snacks, and there's often music from boi-bumba bands, the Amazon's answer to samba.Escape the crowds Manaus is a launchpad for riverboat adventures on the Rio Negro and Amazon \u2013 Swallows & Amazons organises cruises for all budgets (swallowsandamazonstours.com). Or book a few nights at a jungle lodge \u2013 at the Tariri Amazon Lodge outside Manaus, stay in thatched cabins on stilts (taririamazonlodge.com).SALVADORSultry Salvador, the heartland of Afro-Brazilian culture, was the main entry point for slaves from the African continent. Their legacy lives on in capoeira and spicy cuisine.If you do only one thing Take a\u00a0walking tour of the Pelourinho, a Unesco World Heritage Site (the neighbourhood still has an edge though). Here you'll find capoeira and drumming schools, many offering classes to tourists. On Tuesday nights there's a massive street party, including drumming group Olodum.Where to hang out Rio Vermelho is an up-and-coming area for nightlife with a bohemian flavour. Look out for the barracas do acaraj\u00e9 \u2013 stalls selling street foods.Escape the crowds Most people head north by bus to Bahia's golden beaches dotted with laid-back resorts. In the rainy season, which coincides with the World Cup, head to the wild Chapada Diamantina. Fly from Salvador to Len\u00e7\u00f3is, where agencies provide walking guides and camping gear.BELO HORIZONTEFootball fans visiting for England's game against Costa Rica on 24 June should schedule in a few days in this likeable city ringed by mountains with a lively cultural scene, striking modernist architecture, a handful of world-class museums and galleries, great food and some of the best nightlife outside of Rio and S\u00e3o Paulo.If you do only one thing The Pampulha complex is a\u00a0man-made lake surrounded by modern buildings, several designed by Brazil's most famous architect, Oscar Niemeyer. It's home to the museum of modern art, the university and the S\u00e3o Francisco de Assis church. Near the lake you'll find the botanical gardens, zoo and the Mineir\u00e3o football stadium.Where to hang out The city is famed for its botecos which compete for best bar snacks in the annual Comida di Buteco festival. Experience the lively bar scene around the Pra\u00e7a da Savassi, where the city's bright young things flock. Escape the crowds Inhotim is one of Brazil's most extraordinary places: an open-air contemporary art gallery surrounded by botanical gardens and coffee plantations, a\u00a090-minute drive away (inhotim.org.br). Those with time to spare should visit a nearby colonial town: Ouro Preto and Tiradentes are beautiful and easily reached by public transport.", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel", "Football"], "title": "Highlights of Brazil | Joanne O'Connor"},{"date": "2014-01-26T08:00:37Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Heavily made up and dressed in a white bathrobe and heels, Isis Valverde marches into a\u00a0suite at Rio's Copacabana Palace, stretches out an elegant hand to greet me and says, with a winning smile: \"Looks like a gringo, huh?\"She could be forgiven a little grandeza: at just 26, the actor is already one of the most famous women in Brazil \u2013 a star of novelas, or soap operas, that the country watches every night with such relish. \"Our novela is what cinema is abroad. It is very well done. There is a lot of money involved,\" she says. \"A lot more than there is in cinema, which is a great shame, because I am in love with cinema.\"Valverde has made just one film to date \u2013 a\u00a0\"Brazilian Western\" called Faroeste Caboclo \u2013 and she previously declined a test for the James Bond film Casino Royale as she was not yet fluent in English, she says, punctuating her rapid-fire Portuguese with frequent husky laughs, and occasionally referring to herself in the third person.She has just finished filming a mini-series called Amores Roubados (Stolen Loves) for Brazil's dominant Globo network, to which she is exclusively contracted, and is at the Copacabana Palace for a high-glamour photoshoot for a Brazilian newspaper.This is a role she relishes. \"See Isis, full of Dolce e Gabbana, in an amazing hotel,\" she says. \"It shows the different faces you have, in a different way: 'Oh, she's modern, she also likes fashion.'\" As Valverde observes, the photoshoot is a vivid contrast to her most famous role to date \u2013 that of Suelen, a brash, loud and hugely entertaining footballer's girlfriend from a poor Rio suburb in the hit 2012 novela Avenida Brasil.The soap caught the imagination of Brazilians with its boisterous characterisation of the lives of the country's \"Class C\" \u2013 a colourful and consumerist lower-middle class created after a decade of economic advancement enabled millions of Brazilians to come out of poverty and become consumers. More than half the population is now classified as Class C, but they had never been so expertly depicted in a\u00a0soap before.Clad in skin-tight, colourful leggings, heels and crop tops, Suelen clacked and wise-talked her way into Brazilians hearts, and a new slang word was coined: periguete. \"She is that kind of woman who is more self-interested, who wears clothes to show her body, who always likes to wear short, clingy clothes, she is a very vain woman,\" Valverde explains.Like the novela, which has since been sold to over 100 countries, the word \"periguete\" took off in Brazil \u2013 there was even a\u00a0samba written about it. But despite \u2013 or perhaps because \u2013 of Suelen's inner gold-digger, the character resounded in an extrovert culture which is deeply macho, but which also prizes women with powerful personalities. \"The strength of a woman. The seduction of a woman. The way she is potent. I think the character brought this,\" says Valverde.Valverde grew up in the small town of Aiuruoca, in the interior of Minas Gerais state. Her father was a chemist and her mother a lawyer and former actor. Isis was signed up for a Globo soap at 17. She always wanted to be an actor. \"I think that it is one of the most beautiful expressions that exists, because you live your life, and you live various others,\" she says.When a million Brazilians took to the streets in June last year to protest on a range of issues, from failing public services to the costs of staging next year's World Cup, she joined them. \"Brazil has to start to focus more on education, on health, on teachers' salaries,\" she says. \"I think that education and health are the principal points for a society to evolve and grow.\"Money spent on stadiums could have been better invested, she continues, but she remains cautiously optimistic about the World Cup. \"There is a real lack of infrastructure. But I think it will be good for the country.\"Instead, she called for better salaries for teachers and an end to a constitutional amendment called PEC 37, which had been passing through Congress, and which would have taken the power of prosecution away from Brazilian public prosecutors and given it to police. PEC 37 was seen as a blueprint for yet more corruption. But Congress threw the amendment out following the protests \u2013 which Valverde saw as a success.\"We have to ask for few things. If you ask for a whole list, they end up doing nothing,\" she adds with a throaty laugh. \"But Brazil's endemic corruption is a much bigger problem. \"I think it's a big mess. \"But we are Brazilians and we never give up.\"", "tags": ["Portrait of Brazil 2014"], "title": "Voices of Brazil: the actor Brazilians love"},{"date": "2014-01-26T08:01:14Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When the world's most ambitious policing operation was shaken last year by reports that officers tortured and killed a resident in Rio de Janeiro's biggest favela, the authorities knew exactly who to call.Major Pricilla de Oliveira Azevedo \u2013 a 35-year-old pioneer of Rio's \"pacification\" programme \u2013 was appointed to handle the political fall-out from the arrest of her predecessor and 12 other officers, who were charged with the murder of Amarildo de Souza, a bricklayer who was last seen at police headquarters being interrogated with electric shocks and asphyxiation.That case sparked mass protests and threatened to undermine Rio's five-year strategy to regain control of more than 40 favela complexes that had previously been run by armed gangs. But tension has been eased by the arrests and de Oliveira's appointment as chief of police in Rocinha, a community of mostly poor, non-white residents overlooking some of the wealthiest neighbourhoods in Brazil.Major Pricilla \u2013 as she is best known \u2013 is the friendly, positive face of the pacification programme that she has helped to spearhead. She is in charge of hundreds of officers in one of the most violent police forces on the planet and is playing a prominent role in trying to shift perceptions of their tole.Veja Magazine named her Defender of the City. The US State Department gave her an \"outstanding leadership and courage\" award.In her five months in Rocinha, she has had to deal with murders, drug trafficking, gun running and frequent nightly shoot-outs between residents and police, not to mention the day-to-day task of liaising with community representatives.We meet on a day of relative calm in Rocinha at the make-shift police headquarters \u2013 a Lego-like structure of shipping containers high up by the forest line. The major is delayed by a long discussion with a man with a mohican who wants to organise a festival. For the infectiously positive de Oliveira such interactions are a sign of progress.\"Places like Rocinha used to be isolated, but now they have merged with the wider community. That has brought in big changes,\" she says as we sit between two of the concrete benefits \u2013 a new public toilet and football pitch. \"There is still crime as there is everywhere, but it has changed. The number of murders has gone down enormously.\"Although she was brought up in the middle-class Rio neighbourhood of Laranjeiras, de Oliveira has first-hand experience of the terror felt by victims of crime. In 2007 she was robbed, tied up and taken to a favela. \"That was the most frightening moment of my life. I was completely alone,\" she recalls. But it also proved to be a turning point. De Oliveira escaped, then returned to arrest her captors, bursting in on them with a gun. \"I guess that doesn't happen much in your country,\" she laughs.Her career has since followed a meteoric rise. In 2008, de Oliveira was put in charge of the first pacification operation in the Santa Marta favela, which proceeded peacefully and opened the path for social services and public investment.Rio de Janeiro's favelas, which are home to more than a fifth of the city's 6.3 million people, are a symbol of Brazil's acute inequality, murderous crime and stark social divisions. Although pacification targets only 40 of the city's 600 favelas, the operation is fraught with logistical, physical and political challenges.\"Without a doubt, this is the most ambitious policing project in the world,\" de Oliveira says. \"We have moved into areas that were long abandoned by public institutions. Because the state didn't take care of these communities, crime took over. The point of our programme is to return responsibility to the authorities.\"As the Amarildo case showed, it is far from smooth sailing. As well as occasional killings by and of police, there have been complaints that the authorities have stopped backing the initial force with long-term funds. De Oliveira acknowledges room for improvement. \"The politicians could be doing more to accelerate development. They should be bringing in social services as the same speed as UPP units as they did in Santa Marta.\"After impressive initial gains, there were signs last year that crime was once again starting to rise. Keeping on top of a fast-changing situation in a community of 67,000 residents takes its toll.\"There are lots of problems that require attention. Last night I finished at 10pm and was then called back in at 1am. I've been here since,\" says De Oliveira during our later afternoon interview. \"I'm exhausted but I love it. I'm very happy with the part I've played.\"Fitting in a personal life is difficult. Her boyfriend calls and while they chat, I'm drawn for the first time by her bright pink nail polish rather than the three stars on her shoulder. \"I can't tell him that I was called to come to work at 1am or he'll never want to marry me,\" she says with a smile after they hang up. \"Police life is very complicated.\"Relentlessly upbeat about the future, however, she says the coming year will see new steps forward for the pacification programme. \"My hope for 2014 is more peace,\" she says. \"As for my fears, well, I am aware of the difficulties of the pacification programme, but I have a very positive view. I can't say I'm afraid of anything.\"Additional reporting by Anna Kaiser", "tags": ["Portrait of Brazil 2014", "World news", "Brazil", "Americas"], "title": "Voices of Brazil: the police chief pioneer"},{"date": "2014-01-26T08:00:56Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Eighty-six years old and looking not a\u00a0shade over 60, Divaldo Franco is Brazil's most important spiritual medium, selling more than 10m books worldwide. His home is in the middle of one of Brazil's most violent favelas, Pau da Lima, on the outskirts of Salvador. But Franco's world is serene and peaceful.It's set inside the physical embodiment of his life's work, the Mans\u00e3o do Caminho \u2013 an institution which provides housing, education and care for children and young people. Where once stood a giant rubbish dump the Mans\u00e3o is a vast, ultra-modern community complex. The building is regarded as untouchable by the drug traffickers as many of them, or their families, use its services.Hundreds of mothers drop their kids off every day at the free cr\u00e8che. More than 30,000 children are estimated to have passed through the Mans\u00e3o over the past 60 years. A large part is financed by the sale of Franco's books. He claims to channel spirits and transcribe their words in a\u00a0method known as \"psychography\".It all came about because of a vision he had in 1948, aged 21. \"I saw a huge number of children and an old man,\" he recalls. \"I\u00a0went up to the elderly man. He turned around and I realised it was me in old age. And a voice said to me: 'This is what you will do with your life.'\"He was later introduced to the doctrine of spiritism, coined by the French writer Allan Kardec in 1857, which believes in the existence of, and communication with, spirits through mediums. \"Spiritism is growing in Brazil because it attends to the cultural, emotional and spiritual needs of society,\" he says.Over the years, Franco has adopted more than 600 abandoned children, many of whom now have their own children and grandchildren, and Franco sees hope in that youngest generation.\"We are living through a remarkable moment,\" he says. \"The country has woken up to its responsibilities and the people are slowly winning their rights as citizens and moving towards democratic freedoms and social justice. The country has consciously prepared for 2014, when the whole world will be following the football, to show that the nation has higher values, above those of carnival or even football, and that it is a strong nation that is ready to take on the here and now.\"Despite his age, the diminutive Franco still packs his own suitcase and travels the world alone, as he has done for decades, delivering hundreds of lectures.\"These trips open doors for those who will come in the future,\" he says. \"My message is of love, of hope, of caring. To say to people that our lives have a meaning and that we are not on the Earth to suffer.'\"", "tags": ["Portrait of Brazil 2014"], "title": "Voices of Brazil: the spiritual medium"},{"date": "2014-01-26T08:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil is hosting a back-to-back World Cup and Olympics. When it was announced, the then-president Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva summed up the mood. \"Our hour has arrived,\" he proclaimed to cheers in 2009.Few doubted it at the time. Long dismissed as the land of unfulfilled potential, Brazil appeared to be on an unstoppable winning streak. The economy was booming, poverty falling, the destruction of the Amazon was slowing and Lula was one of the most popular presidents in the world. The long-held belief that \"God is Brazilian\" seemed to ring true. But five years on, with Brazil's hour in the global spotlight imminent, the divine touch seems to have deserted this nation. Last June's street protests \u2013 the biggest in a generation \u2013 highlighted dissatisfaction with the dire public services, political corruption, police violence and wasteful spending on stadiums. Since 2011 the economy has slowed dramatically. Environmental concerns have been put on the back burner. Dam and mining megaprojects are eating into land owned by indigenous tribes. Conservationists appear increasingly sidelined and Amazon clearance has suffered its sharpest uptick in a decade.Throw in delays and deaths at stadium construction sites, shoddy infrastructure, high murder rates and a presidential election, and it is clear that Brazil could come out of 2014 looking a lot worse than it went in. Just as likely, though, is that the government, now led by Dilma Rousseff, will muddle through, bend the rules a little and try to make everyone happy with a creative last-minute fudge. Such is the culture of the jeitinho Brasileiro \u2013 \"the Brazilian short cut\".We can expect to weigh up that approach a great deal in 2014 as the world dwells long enough on Brazil to go beyond the old stereotypes of carnival, coffee, beaches and football.No single image, of course, could ever do justice to this nation. More than twice as large as Europe, Brazil has a population of 199 million, made up of descendants of colonial settlers, their slaves, survivors of the indigenous tribes they decimated and 20th-century waves of migration from Japan, Lebanon, Europe and elsewhere.The predominantly white elites of Rio de Janeiro, S\u00e3o Paulo and Brasilia enjoy a\u00a0standard of living as good as anywhere on the planet. But the masses in megacities such as Salvador and Recife are plagued by some of the world's highest rates of murder and crack addiction. In rural areas, plantation owners have a grip on local politics in the northeast that is little short of feudal, while the soy and cattle barons of the interior push landless peasants and Indian communities further to the margins.A more positive and common story is that of the numerous poor communities whose lives have been significantly improved in recent years by cash transfers from the government. But not everyone wants more cash and civilisation. Brazil is also still home to some of the world's last uncontacted tribes.Fully understanding what makes such a\u00a0country tick in a single story is futile. Instead, this series of interviews presents a snapshot of Brazil as it enters this pivotal year. Many of the individuals are little known in the outside world, but they highlight trends in society.We interview, among many others, the politician who has earned plaudits for standing on a platform of gay rights. We talk to a health worker \u2013 one of many in the public sector who believes that dire services are a major cause of unrest \u2013 and a member of the M\u00eddia Ninja collective challenging the way news organisations cover social activism.In the world of culture, we skip samba and bossanova to meet a leading influence in funk carioca, the sound that has spread from favela parties to the mainstream. We also interview Isis Valverde, an actor and campaigner for social equality.For a take on the spiritual life of the nation, the alternative is still further from conventionality. Brazil is often described as the world's biggest Catholic nation, but that is only half the story. Divaldo Franco, a spiritual medium who claims to speak to the dead and who has adopted more than 600 abandoned children, is among the most popular figures in the country. On the environment and human rights side we talk to a tribal leader, and for sport we introduce Ca\u00e7a-Rato \u2013 a striker who rose from catching rats as a child to scoring the goal that secured promotion for Santa Cruz.We hope to introduce some intriguing characters and highlight what may well be Brazil's defining characteristic: diversity. Socially liberal, religiously conservative, politically progressive and economically divided, this country defies easy categorisation. Whether Brazil's time has indeed come, this year should at least leave the world with a broader view of what it represents.", "tags": ["Portrait of Brazil 2014", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news", "World Cup 2014", "World Cup", "Football"], "title": "Voices of Brazil: 'Our hour has arrived'"},{"date": "2014-03-24T16:12:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The Brazilian semi-arid region has over the last few years experienced the worst drought in decades. According its national agency of water, this drought is increasingly proving to be major challenge for South America's largest nation.\"The water level of the S\u00e3o Francisco River [one of the most important in Brazil] is so low and water quality is so poor that it is no longer possible to fish. Our cattle are dying of thirst,\" said Ed\u00e9lcio Rodrigues, a former fisherman and resident of the municipality of Manga, in Minas Gerais state, one of the worst-affected areas.\"What is giving hope for the future are projects to store water in tanks, and others that teach families better agriculture, taking care of the environment. If not, we will see the semi-arid land dry up.\"The ministry of national integration estimates that more than 10 million people have been impacted by the drought in the semi-arid region. Since 2012, more than 1,000 municipalities have asked the federal government for help. The actions of adaptation and combating desertification planned were inadequate \u2013 the northeast is the poorest region of the country and still suffers from the lowest allocation of resources by the federal state \u2013 the only result was the creation of a National Emergency Response Force for Droughts.Now the government is applying a income transfer programme, inspired by the Bolsa-Familia, such as Bolsa Estiagem and Garantia Safra. The first is focused on family farmers with an income of up to two monthly minimum wages living in emergency areas. About 940,000 families are receiving R$80 a month ($34,64). The Garantia Safra programme provides support to farmers who have lost at least 50% of their harvests. More than 700,000 farmers have received R$70 in five payments. So far, the federal government has spent about R$16bn to mitigate the effects of drought on the livelihood of farmers.To get an idea of the scale of the climate shifts, the temperature increase has reached 1.75 degrees celsius over the past 50 years in this region. A study of this this severe temperature rise in the semi-arid region by the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, the University of California and Embrapa was the starting point for the Adapta Sert\u00e3o project, which is testing a production model based on agroforestry with a more efficient use of water for small farmers in the state of Bahia.Apart from empowering farmers to plan the storage of water for the drier periods of the year, the project focuses on reforestation. One of its creators, Daniele Cesano, explains that climate change is exacerbated by local factors: \"The main economic activity of the region is cattle farming, besides agriculture. To make room for cattle, farmers deforest and use herbicides. With the drastic reduction of the vegetation cover, the humidity falls and the rains subside. Furthermore, the use of pesticides pollutes water and hampers the regeneration of the forests.\" A pilot reforestation programme re-introduced native plants as a biophysical storage, regulating the local climate and hydrating animals that the eat plants. It benefited 500 people and received the Seed 2008 award.However, the most important initiative in the semi-arid region, which is also part of the National Emergency Response Force for Droughts, is the construction of tanks launched by an NGO called Articula\u00e7\u00e3o do Semi\u00e1rido. With capacity for 16,000 litres of water, the tank fills the need for consumption of a family of five people for a dry period of eight months. Some are collectively built and used, shared by families, according to co-ordinator Naidison Baptista.In total, 850,000 households already have access to this technology, which means around 4.5 million people. This project is reducing an old phenomenon in Brazil, known as the drought industry: \"Unable to store water, people used to lose their farming and become hungry. They were vulnerable and accepted any job offer for poverty wages. It is an exploitation of misery. That's what we're trying to change with this programme.\"The Brazilian government has failed to prevent the tragedy of drought. Despite these initiatives, the situation is still very serious. Nevertheless, the projects that are under development by NGOs have become references as solutions to combat desertification, not just in Brazil, but in other nations, including some in Africa. The projects propose that reforestation and water storage have to be designed and built with farmers, not only conceived by governments and corporations.It is not possible to control the weather, but it is possible to understand its dynamics and to prepare to avoid tragedies affecting the most vulnerable populations of the globe. That's the lesson the people of the Brazilian semi-arid region are trying to put in practice.Join the community of global development professionals and experts. Become a GDPN member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Water", "Climate change", "Climate change", "Deserts", "Desertification", "Environment", "Global development", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Desperately seeking solutions to worst drought in decades in Brazil"},{"date": "2014-06-23T11:29:15Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Tiradentes, along with Diamantina, Ouro Preto and Mariana, is one of the Brazilian Klondike towns that exploded during Brazil's 18th-century gold rush. Beautiful mountains, extravagant baroque churches with interiors bedecked in gold make for one of the most interesting parts of Brazil. Tiradentes is a smaller town with fewer tourists, some great restaurants and an independent film festival.\u2022 Stay: Pousada Villa Bizuca with 13 guestrooms from \u00a339 per nightChris VineItacar\u00e9 is a great place to be ... a small town with beautiful beaches right in the middle of the jungle. It is the gateway to the most beautiful stretches of coastline in Brazil, where the dense forest rolls right down to meet a chain of coves and inlets, many only accessible by forest trails. The surrounding countryside provides wonderful forest walks to isolated beaches or waterfalls. It also has the best rafting in Brazil. \u2022 Stay: Pousada T\u00e3nara, just seconds from the sand, has doubles from \u00a342Vinicius NascimentoAround 30km from the Amazon rainforest city of Santarem, Alter do Chao is the jungle's answer to the Caribbean \u2013 and, after the jungle, Alter do Chao is the perfect place to relax: you can lounge on the river beaches in the morning and gorge yourself on a local grilled fish in the afternoon.\u2022 Stay: Pousada Tupaiulandia is not very expensive and pretty small, like all places in Alter do Chao, but has a lot of characterPieca LevyA granite outcrop in the Mantiqueira mountains in the state of S\u00e3o Paulo, close to its border with the state of Minas Gerais. With peaks of around 2,000m, Pedra do Ba\u00fa has an almost alpine feel at its higher levels. The surrounding countryside, which is something like a sub-tropical north Wales with its rolling hills and peaks, contains a number of small towns such as S\u00e3o Bento do Sapuca\u00ed and Gon\u00e7alves.ThorpetowersThe Rubber Museum (officially the Museu Seringal da Vila Paraiso) is actually a set for a Brazilian film \u2013 based on the 1930 novel A Selva (The Forest) by Jos\u00e9 Maria Ferreira de Castro \u2013 which lovingly recreates a real rubber plantation on the Rio Purus at the turn of the 20th century. The set includes various buildings as well as a trail along which visitors are shown how rubber is tapped and the latex treated. It is one of relatively few genuine attractions in Manaus and is usually missed by visitors because it is only accessible by boat and is in the wrong direction if you also want to see the Meeting of Waters \u2013 the confluence of the Rio Negro, a river with dark water, and the sandy-coloured Amazon River \u2013 and the city centre all in one day.It is relatively easy to reach, costs only R$5 (\u00a31.30) to get in, and is a fascinating insight into the lives of the rubber tappers and the rubber barons of the age. It puts Manaus and the famous rubber boom in context and is a perfect half-day trip (more if you want to spend some time at the beach you pass en route). The guided tours are in Portuguese only, but the enthusiasm of the guides generally overcomes any communication difficulties!\u2022 \u00a0Igarape Sao Joao, Taruma. A 20-minute boat ride (R$7, \u00a31.90) from Marina Dav\u00ed near the Hotel Tropical. Admission is \u00a31.30. Open daily 8am-4pm (except Mon) Clive Maguire, The Amazon HandbookThe Football Museum at Pacaembu Stadium in S\u00e3o Paulo celebrates the history of the beautiful game in Brazil and the special place that the sele\u00e7\u00e3o (national team) \u2013 the most successful team in history, winning five World Cups, and the only nation to compete at every World Cup \u2013 holds in the pantheon of the sport.\u2022 Pra\u00e7a Charles Miller, Pacaembu, stadiumguide.com/pacaembu. Open Tues-Sun 9am to 5pm. Entrance R$6felfsilIlha do Mel (Honey Island) is a beautiful island about a 30-minute ferry-boat ride away from Paranagu\u00e1 in southern Brazil. Most of the car-free island is a nature reserve and the numbers of visitors are restricted to about 4,000. On the east coast of the island, which faces the Atlantic, the wind is strong and the waves are usually very big. I've been told that this is the best surfing in Paran\u00e1. On the more sheltered west, the waves are very gentle and there is practically no current, making it perfect for families. The view is somewhat spoiled by the huge ships coming into port, but you can ignore them after a few caipirinhas from the beach front bar. Explore the island along its sandy paths, lounge around in a bar or on the beach, or take a dolphin-watching boat trip around the island. \u2022 Stay: Enseada das Conchas is a four-room family-run guesthouse. Little English is spoken but the welcome is warm, rooms commfortable and the owners very helpfulblueinbrasilLocated in the centre of the city (not too far from Republica station), this restaurant is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week and is guaranteed to be packed over the weekend. Why? The pernil (pork) sandwich. Costing less than R$20 (\u00a35) and cooked to perfection, this isn't just great value for money, it is like nothing I've ever tasted before. The diner-like restaurant is just on the right side of chaotic, with incredibly fast service and some pretty interesting looking people eating here. You're not likely to find many tourists, so don't expect to see the place listed in too many guide books (though the staff are incredibly accommodating to foreign visitors). However, Estadao comes highly recommended (and advertised) by the crowds queuing for food at any given time of the weekend.\u2022 Viaduto 9 de Julho 193, Triangulo, estadaolanches.com.brID2398616Since 1969, Geraldo Simpl\u00edcio, nicknamed \"N\u00eago\" has been carving huge sculptures of women into the slopes of his garden in Nova Friburgo. There are nearly 20 sculptures made of clay scattered throughout the garden \u2013 giant mermaids, a Potira Indian giving birth, a shepherdess. You'll usually find him working in the garden and he's happy to talk to visitors about his work.\u2022 Highway Teresopolis Friburgo (RJ-130), 55 km, Nova Friburgo, Rio de Janeiro. Open daily 8am-5pm. Entrance R$15Gabriela SilveiraThe coast between Paraty, in the state of Rio de Janeiro, and Juque\u00ed beach, in the state of S\u00e3o Paulo, offers literally hundreds of near-empty beaches with the rainforest running into the ocean \u2013 think white sands, green mountains and transparent water, warm all year round. There are wonderful small cities, such as S\u00e3o Sebasti\u00e3o, and traditional cuisine such as pescado a cambucu \u2013 a type of hake \u2013 as well as activities such as surfing, sailing, diving, trekking and bird-watching.\u2022\u00a0Stay: Juquehy Beach Hotel, from \u00a3115Thomas RaissThis is remote Brazil - in the far north-east of the country, where dazzling salt pans and sandbanks skirt the Atlantic coastline. Len\u00e7ois Maranhenses translates as \"the sheets of Maranh\u00e3o\" and refers to a billowing, dazzling-white desert dotted with silvery lakes which stretches 140km along the coast. It has a reputation as the most otherworldly of Brazil's many dramatic landscapes in a region often overlooked by tourists.\u2022\u00a0Stay: Barreirinhas - Pousada Rio Pregui\u00e7as, \u00a346. Excursions from Barreirinhas to the Len\u00e7ois can be organised Vinicius NascimentoThis astonishing state park of waterfalls, caves and canyons is a four-hour drive by car north of Rio. There's a visitor centre with interactive media about the park, restaurant, camping area and guides giving assistance plus a parking area. Visitor numbers are limited to 300 a day during the week, and 800 a day at weekends. Gerson NassorThe fish market in Manaus is huge, as are the fish. Some of the 3,000 species of fish that live in the Amazon are sold from hundreds of stalls stretching almost as far as the eye can see. There are many towns on the Amazon, and each seems to have very a large fish market. It's hard to believe the Amazon can sustain this level of fishing daily.  Rua Juvenal Tavares 204TomMcMasterSao Paulo has the largest population of Japanese outside of Japan in the world, so it's no surprise that the city offers amazing Japanese restaurants. My favourite is Sushibol, where the culinary inventions of chef Danilo Miyabara are amazing.\u2022 Rua Doutor Homem de Melo 436, sushibol.com.br. The newest one - Sushibol Lounge - is located at Rua Doutor M\u00e1rio Ferraz 402Tati SatoThe stunning Chapada dos Veadeiros national park, in the north-eastern state of Goias, three hours from Brasilia, is one of the best destinations for ecotourism in the country, yet is little known outside Brazil. Its hundreds of kilometres of wilderness comprise extraordinary geological formations, cave systems, waterfalls and hiking trails. Vale da Lua (\"Moon Valley\") is a particularly beautiful place to visit and is close to the park. S\u00e3o Jorge, a village close to the entrance of the park, is popular for its bed and breakfasts and peaceful atmosphere. \u2022 Stay: Bagu\u00e1 Pousada, doubles from \u00a362Lu\u00eds Bogliolo Piancastelli", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Best of Brazil \u2013 readers' tips"},{"date": "2014-06-23T11:29:15Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Tiradentes, along with Diamantina, Ouro Preto and Mariana, is one of the Brazilian Klondike towns that exploded during Brazil's 18th-century gold rush. Beautiful mountains, extravagant baroque churches with interiors bedecked in gold make for one of the most interesting parts of Brazil. Tiradentes is a smaller town with fewer tourists, some great restaurants and an independent film festival.\u2022 Stay: Pousada Villa Bizuca with 13 guestrooms from \u00a339 per nightChris VineItacar\u00e9 is a great place to be ... a small town with beautiful beaches right in the middle of the jungle. It is the gateway to the most beautiful stretches of coastline in Brazil, where the dense forest rolls right down to meet a chain of coves and inlets, many only accessible by forest trails. The surrounding countryside provides wonderful forest walks to isolated beaches or waterfalls. It also has the best rafting in Brazil. \u2022 Stay: Pousada T\u00e3nara, just seconds from the sand, has doubles from \u00a342Vinicius NascimentoAround 30km from the Amazon rainforest city of Santarem, Alter do Chao is the jungle's answer to the Caribbean \u2013 and, after the jungle, Alter do Chao is the perfect place to relax: you can lounge on the river beaches in the morning and gorge yourself on a local grilled fish in the afternoon.\u2022 Stay: Pousada Tupaiulandia is not very expensive and pretty small, like all places in Alter do Chao, but has a lot of characterPieca LevyA granite outcrop in the Mantiqueira mountains in the state of S\u00e3o Paulo, close to its border with the state of Minas Gerais. With peaks of around 2,000m, Pedra do Ba\u00fa has an almost alpine feel at its higher levels. The surrounding countryside, which is something like a sub-tropical north Wales with its rolling hills and peaks, contains a number of small towns such as S\u00e3o Bento do Sapuca\u00ed and Gon\u00e7alves.ThorpetowersThe Rubber Museum (officially the Museu Seringal da Vila Paraiso) is actually a set for a Brazilian film \u2013 based on the 1930 novel A Selva (The Forest) by Jos\u00e9 Maria Ferreira de Castro \u2013 which lovingly recreates a real rubber plantation on the Rio Purus at the turn of the 20th century. The set includes various buildings as well as a trail along which visitors are shown how rubber is tapped and the latex treated. It is one of relatively few genuine attractions in Manaus and is usually missed by visitors because it is only accessible by boat and is in the wrong direction if you also want to see the Meeting of Waters \u2013 the confluence of the Rio Negro, a river with dark water, and the sandy-coloured Amazon River \u2013 and the city centre all in one day.It is relatively easy to reach, costs only R$5 (\u00a31.30) to get in, and is a fascinating insight into the lives of the rubber tappers and the rubber barons of the age. It puts Manaus and the famous rubber boom in context and is a perfect half-day trip (more if you want to spend some time at the beach you pass en route). The guided tours are in Portuguese only, but the enthusiasm of the guides generally overcomes any communication difficulties!\u2022 \u00a0Igarape Sao Joao, Taruma. A 20-minute boat ride (R$7, \u00a31.90) from Marina Dav\u00ed near the Hotel Tropical. Admission is \u00a31.30. Open daily 8am-4pm (except Mon) Clive Maguire, The Amazon HandbookThe Football Museum at Pacaembu Stadium in S\u00e3o Paulo celebrates the history of the beautiful game in Brazil and the special place that the sele\u00e7\u00e3o (national team) \u2013 the most successful team in history, winning five World Cups, and the only nation to compete at every World Cup \u2013 holds in the pantheon of the sport.\u2022 Pra\u00e7a Charles Miller, Pacaembu, stadiumguide.com/pacaembu. Open Tues-Sun 9am to 5pm. Entrance R$6felfsilIlha do Mel (Honey Island) is a beautiful island about a 30-minute ferry-boat ride away from Paranagu\u00e1 in southern Brazil. Most of the car-free island is a nature reserve and the numbers of visitors are restricted to about 4,000. On the east coast of the island, which faces the Atlantic, the wind is strong and the waves are usually very big. I've been told that this is the best surfing in Paran\u00e1. On the more sheltered west, the waves are very gentle and there is practically no current, making it perfect for families. The view is somewhat spoiled by the huge ships coming into port, but you can ignore them after a few caipirinhas from the beach front bar. Explore the island along its sandy paths, lounge around in a bar or on the beach, or take a dolphin-watching boat trip around the island. \u2022 Stay: Enseada das Conchas is a four-room family-run guesthouse. Little English is spoken but the welcome is warm, rooms commfortable and the owners very helpfulblueinbrasilLocated in the centre of the city (not too far from Republica station), this restaurant is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week and is guaranteed to be packed over the weekend. Why? The pernil (pork) sandwich. Costing less than R$20 (\u00a35) and cooked to perfection, this isn't just great value for money, it is like nothing I've ever tasted before. The diner-like restaurant is just on the right side of chaotic, with incredibly fast service and some pretty interesting looking people eating here. You're not likely to find many tourists, so don't expect to see the place listed in too many guide books (though the staff are incredibly accommodating to foreign visitors). However, Estadao comes highly recommended (and advertised) by the crowds queuing for food at any given time of the weekend.\u2022 Viaduto 9 de Julho 193, Triangulo, estadaolanches.com.brID2398616Since 1969, Geraldo Simpl\u00edcio, nicknamed \"N\u00eago\" has been carving huge sculptures of women into the slopes of his garden in Nova Friburgo. There are nearly 20 sculptures made of clay scattered throughout the garden \u2013 giant mermaids, a Potira Indian giving birth, a shepherdess. You'll usually find him working in the garden and he's happy to talk to visitors about his work.\u2022 Highway Teresopolis Friburgo (RJ-130), 55 km, Nova Friburgo, Rio de Janeiro. Open daily 8am-5pm. Entrance R$15Gabriela SilveiraThe coast between Paraty, in the state of Rio de Janeiro, and Juque\u00ed beach, in the state of S\u00e3o Paulo, offers literally hundreds of near-empty beaches with the rainforest running into the ocean \u2013 think white sands, green mountains and transparent water, warm all year round. There are wonderful small cities, such as S\u00e3o Sebasti\u00e3o, and traditional cuisine such as pescado a cambucu \u2013 a type of hake \u2013 as well as activities such as surfing, sailing, diving, trekking and bird-watching.\u2022\u00a0Stay: Juquehy Beach Hotel, from \u00a3115Thomas RaissThis is remote Brazil - in the far north-east of the country, where dazzling salt pans and sandbanks skirt the Atlantic coastline. Len\u00e7ois Maranhenses translates as \"the sheets of Maranh\u00e3o\" and refers to a billowing, dazzling-white desert dotted with silvery lakes which stretches 140km along the coast. It has a reputation as the most otherworldly of Brazil's many dramatic landscapes in a region often overlooked by tourists.\u2022\u00a0Stay: Barreirinhas - Pousada Rio Pregui\u00e7as, \u00a346. Excursions from Barreirinhas to the Len\u00e7ois can be organised Vinicius NascimentoThis astonishing state park of waterfalls, caves and canyons is a four-hour drive by car north of Rio. There's a visitor centre with interactive media about the park, restaurant, camping area and guides giving assistance plus a parking area. Visitor numbers are limited to 300 a day during the week, and 800 a day at weekends. Gerson NassorThe fish market in Manaus is huge, as are the fish. Some of the 3,000 species of fish that live in the Amazon are sold from hundreds of stalls stretching almost as far as the eye can see. There are many towns on the Amazon, and each seems to have very a large fish market. It's hard to believe the Amazon can sustain this level of fishing daily.  Rua Juvenal Tavares 204TomMcMasterSao Paulo has the largest population of Japanese outside of Japan in the world, so it's no surprise that the city offers amazing Japanese restaurants. My favourite is Sushibol, where the culinary inventions of chef Danilo Miyabara are amazing.\u2022 Rua Doutor Homem de Melo 436, sushibol.com.br. The newest one - Sushibol Lounge - is located at Rua Doutor M\u00e1rio Ferraz 402Tati SatoThe stunning Chapada dos Veadeiros national park, in the north-eastern state of Goias, three hours from Brasilia, is one of the best destinations for ecotourism in the country, yet is little known outside Brazil. Its hundreds of kilometres of wilderness comprise extraordinary geological formations, cave systems, waterfalls and hiking trails. Vale da Lua (\"Moon Valley\") is a particularly beautiful place to visit and is close to the park. S\u00e3o Jorge, a village close to the entrance of the park, is popular for its bed and breakfasts and peaceful atmosphere. \u2022 Stay: Bagu\u00e1 Pousada, doubles from \u00a362Lu\u00eds Bogliolo Piancastelli", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Best of Brazil \u2013 readers' tips"},{"date": "2014-05-20T13:19:11Z", "country": "brazil", "content": " Guardian Travel is putting together an insiders\u2019 guide to Brazil\u2019s hidden gems \u2013 and we need your help. If you are from Brazil, or know it well, we\u2019d love you to share your tips on where to go and what to see and do in the country \u2013 particularly in and around the World Cup cities. We\u2019d like to hear about places and experiences you might not find in the guide books \u2013 trips and excursions, little-known cities, towns or villages, natural wonders, great neighbourhood restaurants and bars, and of course amazing beaches. Share your tips and photos \u2013 with your full name, where you\u2019re from, and as much detail as possible, including, where relevant, addresses, telephone numbers (though only if these are public) and websites of the places you want us to see \u2013 and we will publish the best in our online guide. If you're sharing photos or videos, please make sure they are taken by you or you have permission to use them. You can submit your contributions by clicking on one of the blue 'Contribute' buttons on this article or by downloading the free GuardianWitness app, if you have a smartphone. Obrigado! ", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel", "World Cup"], "title": "The Brazilians' guide to Brazil"},{"date": "2014-08-15T10:35:22Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Mo Kolours (real name Joseph Deenmamode) has made a big impression since his debut album launched in February this year \u2013 a soulful cut-and-paste project drawing on funk, dub, reggae and drifting vocal hooks. The producer, singer and percussionist, who has an English/Mauritian heritage, has chosen to focus his summer session \u2013 a real party mix \u2013 on Brazil\u2019s prolific jazz drummer Airto Moreira , a long-time musical inspiration of his.\u201cAirto\u2019s music is still fresh, his music is joyful, fruity, rich with life, and bursting with optimism,\u201d says Deenmamode. \u201cThat\u2019s a great summer recipe that will work well as a salad for your hazy evening barbecue!\u201dThe songs in the mix all feature Airto in some way, either as a musican, writer or producer. \u201cI think Airto brings heartfelt, raw self expression, that shows a kind of freedom that we all understand,\u201d says Deenmamode. \u201cBecause it\u2019s so real, people love what he does. A true creative force!\u201dFor Deenmamode, a summer party simply would not be complete without Airto\u2019s music: \u201cA party isn\u2019t a party, for me, unless the music is poppin\u2019,\u201d he says. \u201cAnd if Airto is on the turntable, then you just know it\u2019s going to be poppin.\u201d\u2022 Mo Kolours is playing at the Resident Advisor party during the launch weekend of The Hydra series on Friday 22 August at Studio Spaces, Londonasdsa", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel", "South America holidays", "Music", "Playlists"], "title": "Summer sessions: Mo Kolours' Brazil party mix"},{"date": "2014-08-15T10:35:22Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Mo Kolours (real name Joseph Deenmamode) has made a big impression since his debut album launched in February this year \u2013 a soulful cut-and-paste project drawing on funk, dub, reggae and drifting vocal hooks. The producer, singer and percussionist, who has an English/Mauritian heritage, has chosen to focus his summer session \u2013 a real party mix \u2013 on Brazil\u2019s prolific jazz drummer Airto Moreira , a long-time musical inspiration of his.\u201cAirto\u2019s music is still fresh, his music is joyful, fruity, rich with life, and bursting with optimism,\u201d says Deenmamode. \u201cThat\u2019s a great summer recipe that will work well as a salad for your hazy evening barbecue!\u201dThe songs in the mix all feature Airto in some way, either as a musican, writer or producer. \u201cI think Airto brings heartfelt, raw self expression, that shows a kind of freedom that we all understand,\u201d says Deenmamode. \u201cBecause it\u2019s so real, people love what he does. A true creative force!\u201dFor Deenmamode, a summer party simply would not be complete without Airto\u2019s music: \u201cA party isn\u2019t a party, for me, unless the music is poppin\u2019,\u201d he says. \u201cAnd if Airto is on the turntable, then you just know it\u2019s going to be poppin.\u201d\u2022 Mo Kolours is playing at the Resident Advisor party during the launch weekend of The Hydra series on Friday 22 August at Studio Spaces, Londonasdsa", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel", "South America holidays", "Music", "Playlists"], "title": "Summer sessions: Mo Kolours' Brazil party mix"},{"date": "2014-09-29T08:41:28Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Mark it down as a poor night for Brazilian democracy and tolerance. The penultimate televised debate before next weekend\u2019s presidential election was overshadowed by the homophobic rant of one of the fringe candidates.Levy Fidelix is a conservative and former journalist who has no hope of winning, with a support rate below 1%. But given almost equal airtime to the leading candidates on national television on Sunday, he let rip with a torrent of invective.The presidential hopeful claimed homosexuals \u201cneed psychological care\u201d and were better kept \u201cwell away from [the rest of] us\u201d.He joked that Brazil\u2019s population of 200 million would be reduced by half if homosexuality were encouraged because \u201cthe excretory system\u201d does not function as a means of reproduction.His comments went unremarked upon by the three main candidates \u2013 incumbent Dilma Rousseff of the Workers party, former environment minister Marina Silva and A\u00e9cio Neves of the pro-business Social Democratic party \u2013 though his insults quickly dominated post-debate discussion on social networks.The incident highlighted the challenge of maintaining fairness in a campaign with 12 candidates, only seven of whom are entitled to take part in the televised debates because their parties are in Congress, with all seven getting near-equal prominence in the debates despite four of them usually polling less than 1%.The convoluted format for Sunday night\u2019s one-hour encounter had several different sections, including one in which the candidates were obliged to ask a rival a question. Several times, the would-be leaders appeared unsure of the rules and either under- or overran their time, leaving their voices fading off. If that was not enough to ensure a low audience, the debate was broadcast live at midnight, when most people were asleep.Nevertheless, the campaign has been largely compelling and remains too close to call. According to the most recent polls, Rousseff will win the first round on 5 October and then face a run-off with Silva on 26 October. Second-round vote intentions have swung back and forth between the two, though the president recently opened up a narrow lead.With less than a week until polling day, the televised debate should have been an opportunity for the leading candidates to provide details about their programmes of government and to highlight weaknesses in their rivals\u2019 positions. Instead it was mostly a mix of bland statements and character attacks.Rousseff accused Silva of falsely claiming that she supported the tax on financial transactions, even though she voted against it four times. Political adverts during the commercial break tried to reinforce this message of \u201cMarina the liar\u201d. The president said she was the most reliable and experienced of the candidates. \u201cI humbly beg your vote,\u201d Rousseff said.Silva, who has about 80% less airtime and advertising money than the incumbent, presented herself as the face of change for a united Brazil that was in thrall neither to a \u201cmonopoly of the left or the right\u201d. She criticised Rousseff for dodging questions, failing to address runaway crime rates and neglecting the ethanol industry and options for a cleaner, more diverse energy mix.Looking forward to the runoff, she ended by saying: \u201cIn the second round, we will have more time, equal time and other opportunities to show our programme.\u201dNeves attacked Rousseff over a corruption scandal at the nation\u2019s biggest company, Petrobras. But his performance was unlikely to lift him beyond third place.With these three candidates vying for the middle ground with vanilla statements, the four fringe candidates stole the show with punchier lines and more radical viewpoints. Luciana Genro from the Socialism and Liberty party, made impressive use of her time to highlight the flaws in rival programmes and to warn of the social dangers of homophobia. As in previous debates, the Green party\u2019s Eduardo Jorge also won plaudits for his grasp of detail and support for marijuana liberalisation.That left televangelist pastor Everaldo Pereira, who is running on an anti-abortion, anti-gay rights platform, came across as relatively moderate in comparison with Fidelix.The final debate takes place on Thursday.\u2022 This article was amended on 30 September 2014 to clarify that there are a total of 12 candidates in the presidential election.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news", "LGBT rights"], "title": "Brazil presidential candidate airs homophobic rant during TV debate"},{"date": "2014-08-15T10:35:22Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Mo Kolours (real name Joseph Deenmamode) has made a big impression since his debut album launched in February this year \u2013 a soulful cut-and-paste project drawing on funk, dub, reggae and drifting vocal hooks. The producer, singer and percussionist, who has an English/Mauritian heritage, has chosen to focus his summer session \u2013 a real party mix \u2013 on Brazil\u2019s prolific jazz drummer Airto Moreira , a long-time musical inspiration of his.\u201cAirto\u2019s music is still fresh, his music is joyful, fruity, rich with life, and bursting with optimism,\u201d says Deenmamode. \u201cThat\u2019s a great summer recipe that will work well as a salad for your hazy evening barbecue!\u201dThe songs in the mix all feature Airto in some way, either as a musican, writer or producer. \u201cI think Airto brings heartfelt, raw self expression, that shows a kind of freedom that we all understand,\u201d says Deenmamode. \u201cBecause it\u2019s so real, people love what he does. A true creative force!\u201dFor Deenmamode, a summer party simply would not be complete without Airto\u2019s music: \u201cA party isn\u2019t a party, for me, unless the music is poppin\u2019,\u201d he says. \u201cAnd if Airto is on the turntable, then you just know it\u2019s going to be poppin.\u201d\u2022 Mo Kolours is playing at the Resident Advisor party during the launch weekend of The Hydra series on Friday 22 August at Studio Spaces, Londonasdsa", "tags": ["Brazil holidays", "Travel", "South America holidays", "Music", "Playlists"], "title": "Summer sessions: Mo Kolours' Brazil party mix"},{"date": "2014-09-29T08:41:28Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Mark it down as a poor night for Brazilian democracy and tolerance. The penultimate televised debate before next weekend\u2019s presidential election was overshadowed by the homophobic rant of one of the fringe candidates.Levy Fidelix is a conservative and former journalist who has no hope of winning, with a support rate below 1%. But given almost equal airtime to the leading candidates on national television on Sunday, he let rip with a torrent of invective.The presidential hopeful claimed homosexuals \u201cneed psychological care\u201d and were better kept \u201cwell away from [the rest of] us\u201d.He joked that Brazil\u2019s population of 200 million would be reduced by half if homosexuality were encouraged because \u201cthe excretory system\u201d does not function as a means of reproduction.His comments went unremarked upon by the three main candidates \u2013 incumbent Dilma Rousseff of the Workers party, former environment minister Marina Silva and A\u00e9cio Neves of the pro-business Social Democratic party \u2013 though his insults quickly dominated post-debate discussion on social networks.The incident highlighted the challenge of maintaining fairness in a campaign with 12 candidates, only seven of whom are entitled to take part in the televised debates because their parties are in Congress, with all seven getting near-equal prominence in the debates despite four of them usually polling less than 1%.The convoluted format for Sunday night\u2019s one-hour encounter had several different sections, including one in which the candidates were obliged to ask a rival a question. Several times, the would-be leaders appeared unsure of the rules and either under- or overran their time, leaving their voices fading off. If that was not enough to ensure a low audience, the debate was broadcast live at midnight, when most people were asleep.Nevertheless, the campaign has been largely compelling and remains too close to call. According to the most recent polls, Rousseff will win the first round on 5 October and then face a run-off with Silva on 26 October. Second-round vote intentions have swung back and forth between the two, though the president recently opened up a narrow lead.With less than a week until polling day, the televised debate should have been an opportunity for the leading candidates to provide details about their programmes of government and to highlight weaknesses in their rivals\u2019 positions. Instead it was mostly a mix of bland statements and character attacks.Rousseff accused Silva of falsely claiming that she supported the tax on financial transactions, even though she voted against it four times. Political adverts during the commercial break tried to reinforce this message of \u201cMarina the liar\u201d. The president said she was the most reliable and experienced of the candidates. \u201cI humbly beg your vote,\u201d Rousseff said.Silva, who has about 80% less airtime and advertising money than the incumbent, presented herself as the face of change for a united Brazil that was in thrall neither to a \u201cmonopoly of the left or the right\u201d. She criticised Rousseff for dodging questions, failing to address runaway crime rates and neglecting the ethanol industry and options for a cleaner, more diverse energy mix.Looking forward to the runoff, she ended by saying: \u201cIn the second round, we will have more time, equal time and other opportunities to show our programme.\u201dNeves attacked Rousseff over a corruption scandal at the nation\u2019s biggest company, Petrobras. But his performance was unlikely to lift him beyond third place.With these three candidates vying for the middle ground with vanilla statements, the four fringe candidates stole the show with punchier lines and more radical viewpoints. Luciana Genro from the Socialism and Liberty party, made impressive use of her time to highlight the flaws in rival programmes and to warn of the social dangers of homophobia. As in previous debates, the Green party\u2019s Eduardo Jorge also won plaudits for his grasp of detail and support for marijuana liberalisation.That left televangelist pastor Everaldo Pereira, who is running on an anti-abortion, anti-gay rights platform, came across as relatively moderate in comparison with Fidelix.The final debate takes place on Thursday.\u2022 This article was amended on 30 September 2014 to clarify that there are a total of 12 candidates in the presidential election.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news", "LGBT rights"], "title": "Brazil presidential candidate airs homophobic rant during TV debate"},{"date": "2014-09-05T14:19:16Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "From his front door to the banks of the Cantareira reservoir, Jos\u00e9 Christiano da Silva used to stroll only a hundred metres when he first moved to the area in 2009. Today, amid the worst drought in S\u00e3o Paulo's history, he must now trek a kilometre across the dried-up bed before he reaches what's left of the most important water supply for South America's biggest city.\"It's frightening to look at,\" says the retiree, standing on cracked mud. \"In the past, we'd already be under water here.\" After the driest six months since records began 84 years ago, the volume of the Cantareira system has fallen to 10.7% of its capacity, raising alarms for the nearby urban population of 20 million people and the most important economic hub on the continent.The drought, affecting Brazil's southeast and central regions, has prompted rationing in 19 cities, undermined hydropower generation, pushed up greenhouse gas emissions and led to squabbles between states vying for dwindling water resources.Supplies are usually abundant. Brazil has 12% of the world's freshwater and less than 3% of the world population. Apart from the arid northeastern Cerrado, its cities are normally more likely to be plagued with floods than droughts. With big rivers like the Amazon and Paran\u00e1, the country generally meets 80% of energy needs with hydropower.But this year, the rain fronts that are normally carried south from the humid Amazon have largely failed to materialise and temperatures have been higher than usual, prompting the authorities to scrabble to tap new sources and reduce demand. \"It has been a terrible year. The last rainy season was drier than the dry season,\" Mauro Arce, S\u00e3o Paulo's water resources secretary, told the Guardian. \"This is a crisis and we are responding with technical measures and the support of consumers.\"In S\u00e3o Paulo city, that has meant financial incentives to encourage residents and businesses to reduce consumption, the reduction of water pressure by 75% at night (which in effect means a cut for those \u2013 often the poor \u2013 living in high areas) and tapping alternative supplies. In neighbouring cities, like Gaurulhos, more draconian measures are in place with some neighbourhoods only able to get water one day in three.Tensions have emerged between cities, and between those who want water for energy and those who need it for drinking, food and sanitation.S\u00e3o Paulo has tussled with Rio de Janeiro over the use of the Rio Jaguari, a river that runs across state borders and is used by the latter for hydropower plants and to dilute sewage in the absence of adequate treatment plants. S\u00e3o Paulo, which is downstream, has tapped this river to partially recuperate the Paraiba reservoir system despite the protests of its neighbour and admonitions from the federal government.\"We're defending the inhabitants of S\u00e3o Paulo,\" said Arce. \"Brazilian law is very clear. In situations like the one we face now, the priority is people and animals \u2026 People in Rio should have no concerns. They have a lot of water.\"Local newspapers have referred to the dispute as a \"water war\", though it is more an argument about who will bear the costs of the drought. Water and electricity prices are expected to rise a month or two after the elections in October. Power utilities said last month that the loss of hydro-generating capacity had cost them 15.8bn reais (\u00a34.3bn). Most of this was spent on more expensive oil and other carbon-based fuels that filled the gap in electricity supply. This in turn has pushed up Brazil's greenhouse gas emissions this year.The outlook is as unpredictable as the weather. Government officials say that at current levels of depletion, the Cantareira system would empty in less than 100 days. The top two of the five reservoirs have been drawn down and now \"dead water\" \u2013 which is normally left untouched as a minimum level \u2013 is being pumped out of the third. City planners say they have an emergency plan to use still more dead water if the situation does not improve by November.The first rains of spring this week have brought only partial relief. Despite a downpour on Tuesday night, the water levels of the Cantareira reservoir remained unchanged. In the current climate, even this was hailed as a victory.\"For the first time since April, the level didn't go down,\" said Arce, who says he is now having to draw up a fresh set of plans for the city because statistical predictions have to be adjusted in the light of the new reality of this super-drought.Up next to the Cantareira too, the residents are also struggling to keep up with baselines and shorelines that keep moving further from the norm.After the top reservoir shrunk into the distance, Jos\u00e9 Christiano da Silva moved his boat to the next lake down, but even there the water is now retreating as a result of emergency pumping that started 15 days ago. It is already about 20 metres from where it was and he expects it to diminish further.\"I've never seen anything like it,\" he said.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Brazil", "Drought", "Water", "World news", "South America", "Environment"], "title": "Brazil drought crisis leads to rationing and tensions"},{"date": "2014-12-04T16:02:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Over the past two decades, Brazil has developed a tradition for helping move international climate negotiations forward at critical moments. However, in the face of climate emergency, lack of ambition and a set of shy measures towards carbon emission reductions can neutralise the best ideas and great diplomatic role played by the country.At the time of the Kyoto protocol, Brazil came up with the idea of a clean development fund, now the clean development mechanism, for helping developing countries engage in cutting emissions . It has also put on the table a bold, if controversial, proposal for burden-sharing based on historical responsibilities for the warming we\u2019ve seen so far.At the Copenhagen climate summit in 2009, Brazil showcased a significant voluntary target that delivered real CO2 reductions from controlling deforestation. In Durban, Brazilian diplomats used a smart twist of phrase to break a deadlock over the legal form of the 2015 climate agreement.Brazil\u2019s newest diplomatic contraption was submitted to the UN shortly before the Lima climate conference, which opened on Monday. It is a mechanism called \u201cconcentric differentiation\u201d, which allows for every country to collaborate in the effort towards the target of limiting temperature rises to 2C above pre-industrial levels. Its graphic representation consists of a series of three circles, the innermost of which should be occupied by developed countries with absolute, economy-wide targets; the middle one, by emerging economies, with intensity, per capita or relative reduction targets; and the outer circle, by other developing countries, with non-economy-wide targets. Every country should move towards the centre in time, according to its respective capabilities.While the proposal is certainly interesting for differentiating among developing countries, it still may leave major emitters such as Brazil and China off the hook, by allowing them to set targets that are not measured in absolute reductions for the post-2020 period. That would be a tragedy for the climate and also detrimental to the Brazilian economy.Brazil is far from being an innocent bystander of climate change \u2013 even by its own metric of historical responsibility. According to a recent peer-reviewed study, thanks to deforestation in the latter 20th century, the Latin American country is probably the  fourth top contributor to the observed global warming, responding for about 7% of the total temperature change. Therefore, while still a developing country, it is among the nations that should deliver ambitious emissions pledges (\u2018nationally determined contributions\u2019 in the UN jargon) for a post-2020 climate agreement.There are reasons to believe that the emission cuts the country has achieved over the past decade may now be waning. According to data released by the Climate Observatory, a coalition formed by Brazilian civil society organisations, Brazil\u2019s greenhouse gas emissions have grown 7.8% in 2013 in spite of a very low economic growth, with major contributions coming from land use and energy.Deforestation control is no longer taken for granted. Last year there was a 29% increase in the rate of forest clearing in the Amazon, and the 2015 data is pointing towards another increase.The country\u2019s energy mix is also getting dirtier: 70% of the planned investments on energy will go to fossil fuel in the next 10 years. After swearing off coal a few years back, the Brazilian government has helped it stage a comeback last month, by awarding a contract for its first new coal power plant in nine years. If Brazil is serious about the 2C goal, then it must revert to its former pathway on coal.The Climate Observatory\u2019s assessment for an equity-based 2030 climate target suggests that Brazilian non-land use emissions should peak well before 2025, and overall emissions should decline to significantly less than 1bn tons of CO2 equivalent per year by 2030. Achieving that would not be too hard for the country and can even be done while the economy grows \u2013 in fact, it can help set Brazil\u2019s struggling economy back to a growth trajectory.In 2008, the country committed itself to zero net deforestation by 2015. It could increase its planted forests area from 7m to 17m hectares by 2025. Just by implementing measures that are already in place, it could also cut emissions in the agricultural sector by one-third in 2020 \u2013 or even reach zero emissions from farming and cattle ranching if the Low Carbon Agriculture plan could be expanded to the whole set of yearly investments in agriculture.Brazil could also double its ethanol production by 2020 just by providing clear policies for the sector while reviewing its current policy of gasoline subsidies. With solar photovoltaic energy faring nearly as cheap as coal in the latest bids, and wind energy much cheaper than any fossil fuel, there is no reason for Brazil not to become again a renewables superpower. It actually might be helped in such quest by the current oil supply shock, which drove prices down and made Brazilian ultra-deep-water oil unattractive.While other big emitters, such as the EU, China and the US, start showing their cards on the climate table and betting big on renewables, Brazil seems to be holding itself back. Carlos Rittl is the executive secretary of the Brazilian Climate Observatory, a network of NGOs working on climate change", "tags": ["Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima", "Global climate talks", "Kyoto protocol", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Brazil", "Americas", "Amazon rainforest", "Deforestation", "Environment"], "title": "Brazil should take lead on climate, not just broker talks"},{"date": "2014-12-04T16:02:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Over the past two decades, Brazil has developed a tradition for helping move international climate negotiations forward at critical moments. However, in the face of climate emergency, lack of ambition and a set of shy measures towards carbon emission reductions can neutralise the best ideas and great diplomatic role played by the country.At the time of the Kyoto protocol, Brazil came up with the idea of a clean development fund, now the clean development mechanism, for helping developing countries engage in cutting emissions . It has also put on the table a bold, if controversial, proposal for burden-sharing based on historical responsibilities for the warming we\u2019ve seen so far.At the Copenhagen climate summit in 2009, Brazil showcased a significant voluntary target that delivered real CO2 reductions from controlling deforestation. In Durban, Brazilian diplomats used a smart twist of phrase to break a deadlock over the legal form of the 2015 climate agreement.Brazil\u2019s newest diplomatic contraption was submitted to the UN shortly before the Lima climate conference, which opened on Monday. It is a mechanism called \u201cconcentric differentiation\u201d, which allows for every country to collaborate in the effort towards the target of limiting temperature rises to 2C above pre-industrial levels. Its graphic representation consists of a series of three circles, the innermost of which should be occupied by developed countries with absolute, economy-wide targets; the middle one, by emerging economies, with intensity, per capita or relative reduction targets; and the outer circle, by other developing countries, with non-economy-wide targets. Every country should move towards the centre in time, according to its respective capabilities.While the proposal is certainly interesting for differentiating among developing countries, it still may leave major emitters such as Brazil and China off the hook, by allowing them to set targets that are not measured in absolute reductions for the post-2020 period. That would be a tragedy for the climate and also detrimental to the Brazilian economy.Brazil is far from being an innocent bystander of climate change \u2013 even by its own metric of historical responsibility. According to a recent peer-reviewed study, thanks to deforestation in the latter 20th century, the Latin American country is probably the  fourth top contributor to the observed global warming, responding for about 7% of the total temperature change. Therefore, while still a developing country, it is among the nations that should deliver ambitious emissions pledges (\u2018nationally determined contributions\u2019 in the UN jargon) for a post-2020 climate agreement.There are reasons to believe that the emission cuts the country has achieved over the past decade may now be waning. According to data released by the Climate Observatory, a coalition formed by Brazilian civil society organisations, Brazil\u2019s greenhouse gas emissions have grown 7.8% in 2013 in spite of a very low economic growth, with major contributions coming from land use and energy.Deforestation control is no longer taken for granted. Last year there was a 29% increase in the rate of forest clearing in the Amazon, and the 2015 data is pointing towards another increase.The country\u2019s energy mix is also getting dirtier: 70% of the planned investments on energy will go to fossil fuel in the next 10 years. After swearing off coal a few years back, the Brazilian government has helped it stage a comeback last month, by awarding a contract for its first new coal power plant in nine years. If Brazil is serious about the 2C goal, then it must revert to its former pathway on coal.The Climate Observatory\u2019s assessment for an equity-based 2030 climate target suggests that Brazilian non-land use emissions should peak well before 2025, and overall emissions should decline to significantly less than 1bn tons of CO2 equivalent per year by 2030. Achieving that would not be too hard for the country and can even be done while the economy grows \u2013 in fact, it can help set Brazil\u2019s struggling economy back to a growth trajectory.In 2008, the country committed itself to zero net deforestation by 2015. It could increase its planted forests area from 7m to 17m hectares by 2025. Just by implementing measures that are already in place, it could also cut emissions in the agricultural sector by one-third in 2020 \u2013 or even reach zero emissions from farming and cattle ranching if the Low Carbon Agriculture plan could be expanded to the whole set of yearly investments in agriculture.Brazil could also double its ethanol production by 2020 just by providing clear policies for the sector while reviewing its current policy of gasoline subsidies. With solar photovoltaic energy faring nearly as cheap as coal in the latest bids, and wind energy much cheaper than any fossil fuel, there is no reason for Brazil not to become again a renewables superpower. It actually might be helped in such quest by the current oil supply shock, which drove prices down and made Brazilian ultra-deep-water oil unattractive.While other big emitters, such as the EU, China and the US, start showing their cards on the climate table and betting big on renewables, Brazil seems to be holding itself back. Carlos Rittl is the executive secretary of the Brazilian Climate Observatory, a network of NGOs working on climate change", "tags": ["Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima", "Global climate talks", "Kyoto protocol", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Brazil", "Americas", "Amazon rainforest", "Deforestation", "Environment"], "title": "Brazil should take lead on climate, not just broker talks"},{"date": "2014-11-24T12:34:57Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Expanding nursery provision, improving educational standards and providing more vocational training to adults will be at the heart of Brazil\u2019s efforts to fight poverty and inequality over the next few years, according to the country\u2019s social development minister. While she trumpeted the successes of the bolsa familia poverty-relief programme \u2013 the cash handout given to almost a quarter of Brazilian families on condition that their children go to school and get vaccinated \u2013 Tereza Campello insisted that the country still had a long way to go in creating a fairer and more prosperous society.Introduced in 2003 by the government of President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, the bolsa familia is estimated to have kept 36m families out of extreme poverty and to have been responsible for a dramatic drop in infant mortality, with 0-5 deaths from diarrhoea falling by 46% and deaths from malnutrition down by 58%.But, said Campello, the programme was not solely responsible for the country\u2019s socio-economic progress: between 2002 and 2013, the poorest 20% of Brazilians saw their incomes rise by 6.2%, while those in the top 20% saw a rise of only 2.6%.\u201cEverybody thinks it\u2019s because of bolsa familia, but that\u2019s not the case,\u201d said Campello. \u201cBolsa familia is a small contributor to that, but we\u2019ve also had a 72% growth in the minimum wage \u2013 above the rate of inflation \u2013 and an increase in employment of 20.8m formal jobs.\u201d The minister, whose Workers party (PT) squeaked to victory in October\u2019s elections, stressed that education would remain the primary focus of President Dilma Rousseff\u2019s anti-poverty strategies.\u201cOur poor children don\u2019t have sufficient access to pre-school education,\u201d she said. \u201cWe want to ensure that by 2016, all children from 4-6 go to school, and we are starting to expand nursery provision for 0-3 year olds. It\u2019s particularly important in Brazil because when a child is in school, they are being stimulated and getting free school meals. It also allows the mother or the father to go to work. If you\u2019re a really poor family with small children, it\u2019s very limiting and one of the parents has to lose out.\u201dOf equal importance, said Campello, was raising educational standards by improving teacher training, building libraries and laboratories \u2013 and by ensuring that children spend a full day in school.\u201cWe\u2019ve made great efforts to have a full and integral school day,\u201d she said. \u201cGetting poorer children to stay at school all day is vital: not only do they get free meals; it also means they can be kept away from violence and criminality. We need to expand school provision, but we have a physical limitation as there are 260,000 schools in Brazil - we\u2019re not talking about a small country.\u201dCampello, who was in London to give a talk on Brazil\u2019s efforts to tackle extreme poverty, said the social and economic inclusion of adults was also \u201cabsolutely vital\u201d.Despite an unemployment rate of 4.9%, she added, the country had a serious shortage of skilled workers in the tourism and hospitality industries. \u201cOne of the main things is expanding adult opportunities in vocational qualifications,\u201d she said. \u201cA significant proportion of the population already works in those sectors, but we need to improve their skills. Training the poorest people would be an opportunity for both them and for Brazil as a whole.\u201dCampello rejected suggestions that the close election result reflected a lack of confidence in her party and its efforts to reduce inequality.\u201cWe\u2019re not taking it easy or saying that everything has been done: we still have a lot of work ahead of us,\u201d she said. \u201cBrazil was one of the most unequal countries in the world and you can\u2019t end 500 years of exclusion in 12 years. We\u2019ve made far more progress than at any other point in our history \u2013 but we still have a lot to do.\u201d", "tags": ["Universal primary education", "Global development", "Education", "Society", "Brazil", "Americas", "Poverty", "Equality", "Social exclusion", "Employment"], "title": "Brazil focuses on nurseries, schools and jobs to fight poverty"},{"date": "2014-12-04T16:02:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Over the past two decades, Brazil has developed a tradition for helping move international climate negotiations forward at critical moments. However, in the face of climate emergency, lack of ambition and a set of shy measures towards carbon emission reductions can neutralise the best ideas and great diplomatic role played by the country.At the time of the Kyoto protocol, Brazil came up with the idea of a clean development fund, now the clean development mechanism, for helping developing countries engage in cutting emissions . It has also put on the table a bold, if controversial, proposal for burden-sharing based on historical responsibilities for the warming we\u2019ve seen so far.At the Copenhagen climate summit in 2009, Brazil showcased a significant voluntary target that delivered real CO2 reductions from controlling deforestation. In Durban, Brazilian diplomats used a smart twist of phrase to break a deadlock over the legal form of the 2015 climate agreement.Brazil\u2019s newest diplomatic contraption was submitted to the UN shortly before the Lima climate conference, which opened on Monday. It is a mechanism called \u201cconcentric differentiation\u201d, which allows for every country to collaborate in the effort towards the target of limiting temperature rises to 2C above pre-industrial levels. Its graphic representation consists of a series of three circles, the innermost of which should be occupied by developed countries with absolute, economy-wide targets; the middle one, by emerging economies, with intensity, per capita or relative reduction targets; and the outer circle, by other developing countries, with non-economy-wide targets. Every country should move towards the centre in time, according to its respective capabilities.While the proposal is certainly interesting for differentiating among developing countries, it still may leave major emitters such as Brazil and China off the hook, by allowing them to set targets that are not measured in absolute reductions for the post-2020 period. That would be a tragedy for the climate and also detrimental to the Brazilian economy.Brazil is far from being an innocent bystander of climate change \u2013 even by its own metric of historical responsibility. According to a recent peer-reviewed study, thanks to deforestation in the latter 20th century, the Latin American country is probably the  fourth top contributor to the observed global warming, responding for about 7% of the total temperature change. Therefore, while still a developing country, it is among the nations that should deliver ambitious emissions pledges (\u2018nationally determined contributions\u2019 in the UN jargon) for a post-2020 climate agreement.There are reasons to believe that the emission cuts the country has achieved over the past decade may now be waning. According to data released by the Climate Observatory, a coalition formed by Brazilian civil society organisations, Brazil\u2019s greenhouse gas emissions have grown 7.8% in 2013 in spite of a very low economic growth, with major contributions coming from land use and energy.Deforestation control is no longer taken for granted. Last year there was a 29% increase in the rate of forest clearing in the Amazon, and the 2015 data is pointing towards another increase.The country\u2019s energy mix is also getting dirtier: 70% of the planned investments on energy will go to fossil fuel in the next 10 years. After swearing off coal a few years back, the Brazilian government has helped it stage a comeback last month, by awarding a contract for its first new coal power plant in nine years. If Brazil is serious about the 2C goal, then it must revert to its former pathway on coal.The Climate Observatory\u2019s assessment for an equity-based 2030 climate target suggests that Brazilian non-land use emissions should peak well before 2025, and overall emissions should decline to significantly less than 1bn tons of CO2 equivalent per year by 2030. Achieving that would not be too hard for the country and can even be done while the economy grows \u2013 in fact, it can help set Brazil\u2019s struggling economy back to a growth trajectory.In 2008, the country committed itself to zero net deforestation by 2015. It could increase its planted forests area from 7m to 17m hectares by 2025. Just by implementing measures that are already in place, it could also cut emissions in the agricultural sector by one-third in 2020 \u2013 or even reach zero emissions from farming and cattle ranching if the Low Carbon Agriculture plan could be expanded to the whole set of yearly investments in agriculture.Brazil could also double its ethanol production by 2020 just by providing clear policies for the sector while reviewing its current policy of gasoline subsidies. With solar photovoltaic energy faring nearly as cheap as coal in the latest bids, and wind energy much cheaper than any fossil fuel, there is no reason for Brazil not to become again a renewables superpower. It actually might be helped in such quest by the current oil supply shock, which drove prices down and made Brazilian ultra-deep-water oil unattractive.While other big emitters, such as the EU, China and the US, start showing their cards on the climate table and betting big on renewables, Brazil seems to be holding itself back. Carlos Rittl is the executive secretary of the Brazilian Climate Observatory, a network of NGOs working on climate change", "tags": ["Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima", "Global climate talks", "Kyoto protocol", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Brazil", "Americas", "Amazon rainforest", "Deforestation", "Environment"], "title": "Brazil should take lead on climate, not just broker talks"},{"date": "2014-11-24T12:34:57Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Expanding nursery provision, improving educational standards and providing more vocational training to adults will be at the heart of Brazil\u2019s efforts to fight poverty and inequality over the next few years, according to the country\u2019s social development minister. While she trumpeted the successes of the bolsa familia poverty-relief programme \u2013 the cash handout given to almost a quarter of Brazilian families on condition that their children go to school and get vaccinated \u2013 Tereza Campello insisted that the country still had a long way to go in creating a fairer and more prosperous society.Introduced in 2003 by the government of President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, the bolsa familia is estimated to have kept 36m families out of extreme poverty and to have been responsible for a dramatic drop in infant mortality, with 0-5 deaths from diarrhoea falling by 46% and deaths from malnutrition down by 58%.But, said Campello, the programme was not solely responsible for the country\u2019s socio-economic progress: between 2002 and 2013, the poorest 20% of Brazilians saw their incomes rise by 6.2%, while those in the top 20% saw a rise of only 2.6%.\u201cEverybody thinks it\u2019s because of bolsa familia, but that\u2019s not the case,\u201d said Campello. \u201cBolsa familia is a small contributor to that, but we\u2019ve also had a 72% growth in the minimum wage \u2013 above the rate of inflation \u2013 and an increase in employment of 20.8m formal jobs.\u201d The minister, whose Workers party (PT) squeaked to victory in October\u2019s elections, stressed that education would remain the primary focus of President Dilma Rousseff\u2019s anti-poverty strategies.\u201cOur poor children don\u2019t have sufficient access to pre-school education,\u201d she said. \u201cWe want to ensure that by 2016, all children from 4-6 go to school, and we are starting to expand nursery provision for 0-3 year olds. It\u2019s particularly important in Brazil because when a child is in school, they are being stimulated and getting free school meals. It also allows the mother or the father to go to work. If you\u2019re a really poor family with small children, it\u2019s very limiting and one of the parents has to lose out.\u201dOf equal importance, said Campello, was raising educational standards by improving teacher training, building libraries and laboratories \u2013 and by ensuring that children spend a full day in school.\u201cWe\u2019ve made great efforts to have a full and integral school day,\u201d she said. \u201cGetting poorer children to stay at school all day is vital: not only do they get free meals; it also means they can be kept away from violence and criminality. We need to expand school provision, but we have a physical limitation as there are 260,000 schools in Brazil - we\u2019re not talking about a small country.\u201dCampello, who was in London to give a talk on Brazil\u2019s efforts to tackle extreme poverty, said the social and economic inclusion of adults was also \u201cabsolutely vital\u201d.Despite an unemployment rate of 4.9%, she added, the country had a serious shortage of skilled workers in the tourism and hospitality industries. \u201cOne of the main things is expanding adult opportunities in vocational qualifications,\u201d she said. \u201cA significant proportion of the population already works in those sectors, but we need to improve their skills. Training the poorest people would be an opportunity for both them and for Brazil as a whole.\u201dCampello rejected suggestions that the close election result reflected a lack of confidence in her party and its efforts to reduce inequality.\u201cWe\u2019re not taking it easy or saying that everything has been done: we still have a lot of work ahead of us,\u201d she said. \u201cBrazil was one of the most unequal countries in the world and you can\u2019t end 500 years of exclusion in 12 years. We\u2019ve made far more progress than at any other point in our history \u2013 but we still have a lot to do.\u201d", "tags": ["Universal primary education", "Global development", "Education", "Society", "Brazil", "Americas", "Poverty", "Equality", "Social exclusion", "Employment"], "title": "Brazil focuses on nurseries, schools and jobs to fight poverty"},{"date": "2014-11-21T09:00:05Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has made huge strides in divesting from fossil fuels. In 2009 the country produced a staggering 85% of its electricity from renewable resources. Nearby Argentina hit just 29.2%, while renewably generated electricity is a scant 19.5% of the world\u2019s supply. Those impressive figures have been harvested mainly through heavy investment in hydro power, with 75% of its total renewable energy coming from this resource. Meanwhile its potential for wind power has been left largely untouched. At present Brazil invests just $5.42bn (\u00a33.4bn) in wind power despite having a total estimated potential of 300 gigawatts (GW). However, spending on hydropower projects, which have a smaller total energy potential of 260GW, has topped $150bn.It seems that Brazil has no plans to change the direction of its renewables investments. Headed by the Ministry of Mines and Energy and state-run energy research company Empresa de Pesquisa Energ\u00e9tica (EPE), Brazil\u2019s 10-year plan for energy expansion states that installed capacity from hydro will increase from 84.8GW to 119GW by 2022, yet installed capacity for other renewables (small hydroelectric, biomass and wind) will rise from 15.3GW to 38.1GW in the same time period. Meanwhile there is a new emphasis on fossil fuel, with plans to increase oil production to 5m barrels per day by 2023. Roberto Kishinami, the former executive director of Greenpeace Brazil and international board member for ActionAid, says that Brazil\u2019s energy plans represent a backtrack on previous commitments to a clean energy future.He said: \u201cThis is a kind of schizophrenic plan. Solar, wind and biomass are the alternative for the future. The choices the Brazilian government is taking in the energy sector are going backwards and will squander the investments. This will make us attached to an old model based on fossil fuels that has no future and shall end in three decades.\u201dThe second most competitive renewable resource in Brazil, wind is a much cheaper source of energy than solar or biomass and generation costs have been falling for a number of years. According to the World Energy Council and Bloomberg New Energy Finance, Brazil has the world\u2019s third lowest costs for wind power generation, behind India and China. \u201cThe estimation of wind potential can even be much higher because right now we are only calculating infrastructure onshore with a certain meters high of a wind turbine and a speed average of seven meters/second,\u201d said Kishinami. Wind plants are currently about 30 to 60 meters high, he says, but new plants under construction will be 100 metres tall, meaning that they can take advantage of faster and less turbulent wind, generating more energy. \u201cWe are far behind from what we can do,\u201d said Kishinami. \u201cWe could have a national plan for installing new capacity for 1GW of wind every year.\u201d For Elbia Melo, the executive president of the Brazilian Wind Energy Association, the map of wind potential in Brazil is concentrated on poor areas with low social indexes like the states of Bahia, Rio Grande do Norte, Pernambuco, Piau\u00ed and Cear\u00e1.\u201cIt is in those regions where we have the best wind. That is to say, the poorest areas in the country are the ones that have our most abundant winds. So we also have a possibility to increase life quality, regional income and human development index,\u201d said Melo.But crucially, in her opinion, producing wind energy will not mean that smallholder farmers are forced to give up agriculture or cattle-raising activities. \u201cThose farmers will also benefit from an increase in their annual income for the next 20 years \u2013 the lifecycle of those wind turbines and towers. We will change completely the lives of those families whose survival depends on the support of social programs,\u201d she said.By the end of 2014, it is expected that 140 wind farms will be operating across Brazil, providing energy to 12m homes, and creating 120,000 jobs by 2018. \u201cBrazil has a great chance to become one of the most renewable countries, using its natural resources and being competitive at the same time,\u201d said Melo. \u201cWe already produce the cheapest wind power in the world. What we need now is to better manage our advantages.\u201dRead more stories like this:\u2022 Chile\u2019s solar market is leading the way in South America\u2022 Why has \u2018microhydro\u2019 been neglected as a solution to energy poverty?\u2022 Negotiating a cheaper clean energy deal for all\u2022 Advertisement feature: Barefoot inspiration: power to the people, from the peopleJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Renewable energy: access and investment - global development professionals network", "Global development professionals network", "Wind power", "Renewable energy", "Fossil fuels", "Brazil", "Americas", "Energy"], "title": "Why isn't Brazil exploiting its amazing wind capacity?"},{"date": "2014-12-04T16:02:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Over the past two decades, Brazil has developed a tradition for helping move international climate negotiations forward at critical moments. However, in the face of climate emergency, lack of ambition and a set of shy measures towards carbon emission reductions can neutralise the best ideas and great diplomatic role played by the country.At the time of the Kyoto protocol, Brazil came up with the idea of a clean development fund, now the clean development mechanism, for helping developing countries engage in cutting emissions . It has also put on the table a bold, if controversial, proposal for burden-sharing based on historical responsibilities for the warming we\u2019ve seen so far.At the Copenhagen climate summit in 2009, Brazil showcased a significant voluntary target that delivered real CO2 reductions from controlling deforestation. In Durban, Brazilian diplomats used a smart twist of phrase to break a deadlock over the legal form of the 2015 climate agreement.Brazil\u2019s newest diplomatic contraption was submitted to the UN shortly before the Lima climate conference, which opened on Monday. It is a mechanism called \u201cconcentric differentiation\u201d, which allows for every country to collaborate in the effort towards the target of limiting temperature rises to 2C above pre-industrial levels. Its graphic representation consists of a series of three circles, the innermost of which should be occupied by developed countries with absolute, economy-wide targets; the middle one, by emerging economies, with intensity, per capita or relative reduction targets; and the outer circle, by other developing countries, with non-economy-wide targets. Every country should move towards the centre in time, according to its respective capabilities.While the proposal is certainly interesting for differentiating among developing countries, it still may leave major emitters such as Brazil and China off the hook, by allowing them to set targets that are not measured in absolute reductions for the post-2020 period. That would be a tragedy for the climate and also detrimental to the Brazilian economy.Brazil is far from being an innocent bystander of climate change \u2013 even by its own metric of historical responsibility. According to a recent peer-reviewed study, thanks to deforestation in the latter 20th century, the Latin American country is probably the  fourth top contributor to the observed global warming, responding for about 7% of the total temperature change. Therefore, while still a developing country, it is among the nations that should deliver ambitious emissions pledges (\u2018nationally determined contributions\u2019 in the UN jargon) for a post-2020 climate agreement.There are reasons to believe that the emission cuts the country has achieved over the past decade may now be waning. According to data released by the Climate Observatory, a coalition formed by Brazilian civil society organisations, Brazil\u2019s greenhouse gas emissions have grown 7.8% in 2013 in spite of a very low economic growth, with major contributions coming from land use and energy.Deforestation control is no longer taken for granted. Last year there was a 29% increase in the rate of forest clearing in the Amazon, and the 2015 data is pointing towards another increase.The country\u2019s energy mix is also getting dirtier: 70% of the planned investments on energy will go to fossil fuel in the next 10 years. After swearing off coal a few years back, the Brazilian government has helped it stage a comeback last month, by awarding a contract for its first new coal power plant in nine years. If Brazil is serious about the 2C goal, then it must revert to its former pathway on coal.The Climate Observatory\u2019s assessment for an equity-based 2030 climate target suggests that Brazilian non-land use emissions should peak well before 2025, and overall emissions should decline to significantly less than 1bn tons of CO2 equivalent per year by 2030. Achieving that would not be too hard for the country and can even be done while the economy grows \u2013 in fact, it can help set Brazil\u2019s struggling economy back to a growth trajectory.In 2008, the country committed itself to zero net deforestation by 2015. It could increase its planted forests area from 7m to 17m hectares by 2025. Just by implementing measures that are already in place, it could also cut emissions in the agricultural sector by one-third in 2020 \u2013 or even reach zero emissions from farming and cattle ranching if the Low Carbon Agriculture plan could be expanded to the whole set of yearly investments in agriculture.Brazil could also double its ethanol production by 2020 just by providing clear policies for the sector while reviewing its current policy of gasoline subsidies. With solar photovoltaic energy faring nearly as cheap as coal in the latest bids, and wind energy much cheaper than any fossil fuel, there is no reason for Brazil not to become again a renewables superpower. It actually might be helped in such quest by the current oil supply shock, which drove prices down and made Brazilian ultra-deep-water oil unattractive.While other big emitters, such as the EU, China and the US, start showing their cards on the climate table and betting big on renewables, Brazil seems to be holding itself back. Carlos Rittl is the executive secretary of the Brazilian Climate Observatory, a network of NGOs working on climate change", "tags": ["Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima", "Global climate talks", "Kyoto protocol", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Brazil", "Americas", "Amazon rainforest", "Deforestation", "Environment"], "title": "Brazil should take lead on climate, not just broker talks"},{"date": "2014-11-24T12:34:57Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Expanding nursery provision, improving educational standards and providing more vocational training to adults will be at the heart of Brazil\u2019s efforts to fight poverty and inequality over the next few years, according to the country\u2019s social development minister. While she trumpeted the successes of the bolsa familia poverty-relief programme \u2013 the cash handout given to almost a quarter of Brazilian families on condition that their children go to school and get vaccinated \u2013 Tereza Campello insisted that the country still had a long way to go in creating a fairer and more prosperous society.Introduced in 2003 by the government of President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, the bolsa familia is estimated to have kept 36m families out of extreme poverty and to have been responsible for a dramatic drop in infant mortality, with 0-5 deaths from diarrhoea falling by 46% and deaths from malnutrition down by 58%.But, said Campello, the programme was not solely responsible for the country\u2019s socio-economic progress: between 2002 and 2013, the poorest 20% of Brazilians saw their incomes rise by 6.2%, while those in the top 20% saw a rise of only 2.6%.\u201cEverybody thinks it\u2019s because of bolsa familia, but that\u2019s not the case,\u201d said Campello. \u201cBolsa familia is a small contributor to that, but we\u2019ve also had a 72% growth in the minimum wage \u2013 above the rate of inflation \u2013 and an increase in employment of 20.8m formal jobs.\u201d The minister, whose Workers party (PT) squeaked to victory in October\u2019s elections, stressed that education would remain the primary focus of President Dilma Rousseff\u2019s anti-poverty strategies.\u201cOur poor children don\u2019t have sufficient access to pre-school education,\u201d she said. \u201cWe want to ensure that by 2016, all children from 4-6 go to school, and we are starting to expand nursery provision for 0-3 year olds. It\u2019s particularly important in Brazil because when a child is in school, they are being stimulated and getting free school meals. It also allows the mother or the father to go to work. If you\u2019re a really poor family with small children, it\u2019s very limiting and one of the parents has to lose out.\u201dOf equal importance, said Campello, was raising educational standards by improving teacher training, building libraries and laboratories \u2013 and by ensuring that children spend a full day in school.\u201cWe\u2019ve made great efforts to have a full and integral school day,\u201d she said. \u201cGetting poorer children to stay at school all day is vital: not only do they get free meals; it also means they can be kept away from violence and criminality. We need to expand school provision, but we have a physical limitation as there are 260,000 schools in Brazil - we\u2019re not talking about a small country.\u201dCampello, who was in London to give a talk on Brazil\u2019s efforts to tackle extreme poverty, said the social and economic inclusion of adults was also \u201cabsolutely vital\u201d.Despite an unemployment rate of 4.9%, she added, the country had a serious shortage of skilled workers in the tourism and hospitality industries. \u201cOne of the main things is expanding adult opportunities in vocational qualifications,\u201d she said. \u201cA significant proportion of the population already works in those sectors, but we need to improve their skills. Training the poorest people would be an opportunity for both them and for Brazil as a whole.\u201dCampello rejected suggestions that the close election result reflected a lack of confidence in her party and its efforts to reduce inequality.\u201cWe\u2019re not taking it easy or saying that everything has been done: we still have a lot of work ahead of us,\u201d she said. \u201cBrazil was one of the most unequal countries in the world and you can\u2019t end 500 years of exclusion in 12 years. We\u2019ve made far more progress than at any other point in our history \u2013 but we still have a lot to do.\u201d", "tags": ["Universal primary education", "Global development", "Education", "Society", "Brazil", "Americas", "Poverty", "Equality", "Social exclusion", "Employment"], "title": "Brazil focuses on nurseries, schools and jobs to fight poverty"},{"date": "2014-11-21T09:00:05Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has made huge strides in divesting from fossil fuels. In 2009 the country produced a staggering 85% of its electricity from renewable resources. Nearby Argentina hit just 29.2%, while renewably generated electricity is a scant 19.5% of the world\u2019s supply. Those impressive figures have been harvested mainly through heavy investment in hydro power, with 75% of its total renewable energy coming from this resource. Meanwhile its potential for wind power has been left largely untouched. At present Brazil invests just $5.42bn (\u00a33.4bn) in wind power despite having a total estimated potential of 300 gigawatts (GW). However, spending on hydropower projects, which have a smaller total energy potential of 260GW, has topped $150bn.It seems that Brazil has no plans to change the direction of its renewables investments. Headed by the Ministry of Mines and Energy and state-run energy research company Empresa de Pesquisa Energ\u00e9tica (EPE), Brazil\u2019s 10-year plan for energy expansion states that installed capacity from hydro will increase from 84.8GW to 119GW by 2022, yet installed capacity for other renewables (small hydroelectric, biomass and wind) will rise from 15.3GW to 38.1GW in the same time period. Meanwhile there is a new emphasis on fossil fuel, with plans to increase oil production to 5m barrels per day by 2023. Roberto Kishinami, the former executive director of Greenpeace Brazil and international board member for ActionAid, says that Brazil\u2019s energy plans represent a backtrack on previous commitments to a clean energy future.He said: \u201cThis is a kind of schizophrenic plan. Solar, wind and biomass are the alternative for the future. The choices the Brazilian government is taking in the energy sector are going backwards and will squander the investments. This will make us attached to an old model based on fossil fuels that has no future and shall end in three decades.\u201dThe second most competitive renewable resource in Brazil, wind is a much cheaper source of energy than solar or biomass and generation costs have been falling for a number of years. According to the World Energy Council and Bloomberg New Energy Finance, Brazil has the world\u2019s third lowest costs for wind power generation, behind India and China. \u201cThe estimation of wind potential can even be much higher because right now we are only calculating infrastructure onshore with a certain meters high of a wind turbine and a speed average of seven meters/second,\u201d said Kishinami. Wind plants are currently about 30 to 60 meters high, he says, but new plants under construction will be 100 metres tall, meaning that they can take advantage of faster and less turbulent wind, generating more energy. \u201cWe are far behind from what we can do,\u201d said Kishinami. \u201cWe could have a national plan for installing new capacity for 1GW of wind every year.\u201d For Elbia Melo, the executive president of the Brazilian Wind Energy Association, the map of wind potential in Brazil is concentrated on poor areas with low social indexes like the states of Bahia, Rio Grande do Norte, Pernambuco, Piau\u00ed and Cear\u00e1.\u201cIt is in those regions where we have the best wind. That is to say, the poorest areas in the country are the ones that have our most abundant winds. So we also have a possibility to increase life quality, regional income and human development index,\u201d said Melo.But crucially, in her opinion, producing wind energy will not mean that smallholder farmers are forced to give up agriculture or cattle-raising activities. \u201cThose farmers will also benefit from an increase in their annual income for the next 20 years \u2013 the lifecycle of those wind turbines and towers. We will change completely the lives of those families whose survival depends on the support of social programs,\u201d she said.By the end of 2014, it is expected that 140 wind farms will be operating across Brazil, providing energy to 12m homes, and creating 120,000 jobs by 2018. \u201cBrazil has a great chance to become one of the most renewable countries, using its natural resources and being competitive at the same time,\u201d said Melo. \u201cWe already produce the cheapest wind power in the world. What we need now is to better manage our advantages.\u201dRead more stories like this:\u2022 Chile\u2019s solar market is leading the way in South America\u2022 Why has \u2018microhydro\u2019 been neglected as a solution to energy poverty?\u2022 Negotiating a cheaper clean energy deal for all\u2022 Advertisement feature: Barefoot inspiration: power to the people, from the peopleJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Renewable energy: access and investment - global development professionals network", "Global development professionals network", "Wind power", "Renewable energy", "Fossil fuels", "Brazil", "Americas", "Energy"], "title": "Why isn't Brazil exploiting its amazing wind capacity?"},{"date": "2014-10-24T16:41:39Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "More than 130 million Brazilians will head to the polls on Sunday to elect a new president.Incumbent Dilma Rousseff faces A\u00e9cio Neves of the centrist Brazilian Social Democracy party in a runoff vote. In the first round Dilma won 41.4% of the vote, with Neves taking 33.5%. The scale of the Neves result was particularly surprising, as it was noticeably higher than pre-election polls were showing.Neves took his surge into the first few weeks of the II round campaign, but president Dilma has since edged ahead:Rousseff received a further boost in the closing days of the campaign, with unemployment dropping to 4.9%.Three weeks ago, Rousseff\u2019s support was highest in the poorer states, the north east and north of the country where the Workers\u2019 Party core base is strongest, it will be where socialist candidate Marina Silva\u2019s first round votes go in highly populated states like Rio de Janeiro, Pernambuco - Dilma won both in 2010 - and S\u00e3o Paulo that may end up being the decisive factor.Marina Silva has endorsed Neves. Nevertheless the president goes into Sunday\u2019s vote as the favourite, but as the gap from Neves is still so close (and Brazilian polls so volatile), the final debate between contenders may still provide surprises.Before the final I round debate, Marina Silva was set for the runoff vote according to polls, and at one point she was even leading the race. Then figures released on the Saturday - and indeed the result the following day - showed Neves overtaking Silva.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Brazil election: Dilma Rousseff favourite according to polls"},{"date": "2014-12-04T16:02:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Over the past two decades, Brazil has developed a tradition for helping move international climate negotiations forward at critical moments. However, in the face of climate emergency, lack of ambition and a set of shy measures towards carbon emission reductions can neutralise the best ideas and great diplomatic role played by the country.At the time of the Kyoto protocol, Brazil came up with the idea of a clean development fund, now the clean development mechanism, for helping developing countries engage in cutting emissions . It has also put on the table a bold, if controversial, proposal for burden-sharing based on historical responsibilities for the warming we\u2019ve seen so far.At the Copenhagen climate summit in 2009, Brazil showcased a significant voluntary target that delivered real CO2 reductions from controlling deforestation. In Durban, Brazilian diplomats used a smart twist of phrase to break a deadlock over the legal form of the 2015 climate agreement.Brazil\u2019s newest diplomatic contraption was submitted to the UN shortly before the Lima climate conference, which opened on Monday. It is a mechanism called \u201cconcentric differentiation\u201d, which allows for every country to collaborate in the effort towards the target of limiting temperature rises to 2C above pre-industrial levels. Its graphic representation consists of a series of three circles, the innermost of which should be occupied by developed countries with absolute, economy-wide targets; the middle one, by emerging economies, with intensity, per capita or relative reduction targets; and the outer circle, by other developing countries, with non-economy-wide targets. Every country should move towards the centre in time, according to its respective capabilities.While the proposal is certainly interesting for differentiating among developing countries, it still may leave major emitters such as Brazil and China off the hook, by allowing them to set targets that are not measured in absolute reductions for the post-2020 period. That would be a tragedy for the climate and also detrimental to the Brazilian economy.Brazil is far from being an innocent bystander of climate change \u2013 even by its own metric of historical responsibility. According to a recent peer-reviewed study, thanks to deforestation in the latter 20th century, the Latin American country is probably the  fourth top contributor to the observed global warming, responding for about 7% of the total temperature change. Therefore, while still a developing country, it is among the nations that should deliver ambitious emissions pledges (\u2018nationally determined contributions\u2019 in the UN jargon) for a post-2020 climate agreement.There are reasons to believe that the emission cuts the country has achieved over the past decade may now be waning. According to data released by the Climate Observatory, a coalition formed by Brazilian civil society organisations, Brazil\u2019s greenhouse gas emissions have grown 7.8% in 2013 in spite of a very low economic growth, with major contributions coming from land use and energy.Deforestation control is no longer taken for granted. Last year there was a 29% increase in the rate of forest clearing in the Amazon, and the 2015 data is pointing towards another increase.The country\u2019s energy mix is also getting dirtier: 70% of the planned investments on energy will go to fossil fuel in the next 10 years. After swearing off coal a few years back, the Brazilian government has helped it stage a comeback last month, by awarding a contract for its first new coal power plant in nine years. If Brazil is serious about the 2C goal, then it must revert to its former pathway on coal.The Climate Observatory\u2019s assessment for an equity-based 2030 climate target suggests that Brazilian non-land use emissions should peak well before 2025, and overall emissions should decline to significantly less than 1bn tons of CO2 equivalent per year by 2030. Achieving that would not be too hard for the country and can even be done while the economy grows \u2013 in fact, it can help set Brazil\u2019s struggling economy back to a growth trajectory.In 2008, the country committed itself to zero net deforestation by 2015. It could increase its planted forests area from 7m to 17m hectares by 2025. Just by implementing measures that are already in place, it could also cut emissions in the agricultural sector by one-third in 2020 \u2013 or even reach zero emissions from farming and cattle ranching if the Low Carbon Agriculture plan could be expanded to the whole set of yearly investments in agriculture.Brazil could also double its ethanol production by 2020 just by providing clear policies for the sector while reviewing its current policy of gasoline subsidies. With solar photovoltaic energy faring nearly as cheap as coal in the latest bids, and wind energy much cheaper than any fossil fuel, there is no reason for Brazil not to become again a renewables superpower. It actually might be helped in such quest by the current oil supply shock, which drove prices down and made Brazilian ultra-deep-water oil unattractive.While other big emitters, such as the EU, China and the US, start showing their cards on the climate table and betting big on renewables, Brazil seems to be holding itself back. Carlos Rittl is the executive secretary of the Brazilian Climate Observatory, a network of NGOs working on climate change", "tags": ["Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima", "Global climate talks", "Kyoto protocol", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Brazil", "Americas", "Amazon rainforest", "Deforestation", "Environment"], "title": "Brazil should take lead on climate, not just broker talks"},{"date": "2014-11-24T12:34:57Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Expanding nursery provision, improving educational standards and providing more vocational training to adults will be at the heart of Brazil\u2019s efforts to fight poverty and inequality over the next few years, according to the country\u2019s social development minister. While she trumpeted the successes of the bolsa familia poverty-relief programme \u2013 the cash handout given to almost a quarter of Brazilian families on condition that their children go to school and get vaccinated \u2013 Tereza Campello insisted that the country still had a long way to go in creating a fairer and more prosperous society.Introduced in 2003 by the government of President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, the bolsa familia is estimated to have kept 36m families out of extreme poverty and to have been responsible for a dramatic drop in infant mortality, with 0-5 deaths from diarrhoea falling by 46% and deaths from malnutrition down by 58%.But, said Campello, the programme was not solely responsible for the country\u2019s socio-economic progress: between 2002 and 2013, the poorest 20% of Brazilians saw their incomes rise by 6.2%, while those in the top 20% saw a rise of only 2.6%.\u201cEverybody thinks it\u2019s because of bolsa familia, but that\u2019s not the case,\u201d said Campello. \u201cBolsa familia is a small contributor to that, but we\u2019ve also had a 72% growth in the minimum wage \u2013 above the rate of inflation \u2013 and an increase in employment of 20.8m formal jobs.\u201d The minister, whose Workers party (PT) squeaked to victory in October\u2019s elections, stressed that education would remain the primary focus of President Dilma Rousseff\u2019s anti-poverty strategies.\u201cOur poor children don\u2019t have sufficient access to pre-school education,\u201d she said. \u201cWe want to ensure that by 2016, all children from 4-6 go to school, and we are starting to expand nursery provision for 0-3 year olds. It\u2019s particularly important in Brazil because when a child is in school, they are being stimulated and getting free school meals. It also allows the mother or the father to go to work. If you\u2019re a really poor family with small children, it\u2019s very limiting and one of the parents has to lose out.\u201dOf equal importance, said Campello, was raising educational standards by improving teacher training, building libraries and laboratories \u2013 and by ensuring that children spend a full day in school.\u201cWe\u2019ve made great efforts to have a full and integral school day,\u201d she said. \u201cGetting poorer children to stay at school all day is vital: not only do they get free meals; it also means they can be kept away from violence and criminality. We need to expand school provision, but we have a physical limitation as there are 260,000 schools in Brazil - we\u2019re not talking about a small country.\u201dCampello, who was in London to give a talk on Brazil\u2019s efforts to tackle extreme poverty, said the social and economic inclusion of adults was also \u201cabsolutely vital\u201d.Despite an unemployment rate of 4.9%, she added, the country had a serious shortage of skilled workers in the tourism and hospitality industries. \u201cOne of the main things is expanding adult opportunities in vocational qualifications,\u201d she said. \u201cA significant proportion of the population already works in those sectors, but we need to improve their skills. Training the poorest people would be an opportunity for both them and for Brazil as a whole.\u201dCampello rejected suggestions that the close election result reflected a lack of confidence in her party and its efforts to reduce inequality.\u201cWe\u2019re not taking it easy or saying that everything has been done: we still have a lot of work ahead of us,\u201d she said. \u201cBrazil was one of the most unequal countries in the world and you can\u2019t end 500 years of exclusion in 12 years. We\u2019ve made far more progress than at any other point in our history \u2013 but we still have a lot to do.\u201d", "tags": ["Universal primary education", "Global development", "Education", "Society", "Brazil", "Americas", "Poverty", "Equality", "Social exclusion", "Employment"], "title": "Brazil focuses on nurseries, schools and jobs to fight poverty"},{"date": "2014-11-21T09:00:05Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has made huge strides in divesting from fossil fuels. In 2009 the country produced a staggering 85% of its electricity from renewable resources. Nearby Argentina hit just 29.2%, while renewably generated electricity is a scant 19.5% of the world\u2019s supply. Those impressive figures have been harvested mainly through heavy investment in hydro power, with 75% of its total renewable energy coming from this resource. Meanwhile its potential for wind power has been left largely untouched. At present Brazil invests just $5.42bn (\u00a33.4bn) in wind power despite having a total estimated potential of 300 gigawatts (GW). However, spending on hydropower projects, which have a smaller total energy potential of 260GW, has topped $150bn.It seems that Brazil has no plans to change the direction of its renewables investments. Headed by the Ministry of Mines and Energy and state-run energy research company Empresa de Pesquisa Energ\u00e9tica (EPE), Brazil\u2019s 10-year plan for energy expansion states that installed capacity from hydro will increase from 84.8GW to 119GW by 2022, yet installed capacity for other renewables (small hydroelectric, biomass and wind) will rise from 15.3GW to 38.1GW in the same time period. Meanwhile there is a new emphasis on fossil fuel, with plans to increase oil production to 5m barrels per day by 2023. Roberto Kishinami, the former executive director of Greenpeace Brazil and international board member for ActionAid, says that Brazil\u2019s energy plans represent a backtrack on previous commitments to a clean energy future.He said: \u201cThis is a kind of schizophrenic plan. Solar, wind and biomass are the alternative for the future. The choices the Brazilian government is taking in the energy sector are going backwards and will squander the investments. This will make us attached to an old model based on fossil fuels that has no future and shall end in three decades.\u201dThe second most competitive renewable resource in Brazil, wind is a much cheaper source of energy than solar or biomass and generation costs have been falling for a number of years. According to the World Energy Council and Bloomberg New Energy Finance, Brazil has the world\u2019s third lowest costs for wind power generation, behind India and China. \u201cThe estimation of wind potential can even be much higher because right now we are only calculating infrastructure onshore with a certain meters high of a wind turbine and a speed average of seven meters/second,\u201d said Kishinami. Wind plants are currently about 30 to 60 meters high, he says, but new plants under construction will be 100 metres tall, meaning that they can take advantage of faster and less turbulent wind, generating more energy. \u201cWe are far behind from what we can do,\u201d said Kishinami. \u201cWe could have a national plan for installing new capacity for 1GW of wind every year.\u201d For Elbia Melo, the executive president of the Brazilian Wind Energy Association, the map of wind potential in Brazil is concentrated on poor areas with low social indexes like the states of Bahia, Rio Grande do Norte, Pernambuco, Piau\u00ed and Cear\u00e1.\u201cIt is in those regions where we have the best wind. That is to say, the poorest areas in the country are the ones that have our most abundant winds. So we also have a possibility to increase life quality, regional income and human development index,\u201d said Melo.But crucially, in her opinion, producing wind energy will not mean that smallholder farmers are forced to give up agriculture or cattle-raising activities. \u201cThose farmers will also benefit from an increase in their annual income for the next 20 years \u2013 the lifecycle of those wind turbines and towers. We will change completely the lives of those families whose survival depends on the support of social programs,\u201d she said.By the end of 2014, it is expected that 140 wind farms will be operating across Brazil, providing energy to 12m homes, and creating 120,000 jobs by 2018. \u201cBrazil has a great chance to become one of the most renewable countries, using its natural resources and being competitive at the same time,\u201d said Melo. \u201cWe already produce the cheapest wind power in the world. What we need now is to better manage our advantages.\u201dRead more stories like this:\u2022 Chile\u2019s solar market is leading the way in South America\u2022 Why has \u2018microhydro\u2019 been neglected as a solution to energy poverty?\u2022 Negotiating a cheaper clean energy deal for all\u2022 Advertisement feature: Barefoot inspiration: power to the people, from the peopleJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Renewable energy: access and investment - global development professionals network", "Global development professionals network", "Wind power", "Renewable energy", "Fossil fuels", "Brazil", "Americas", "Energy"], "title": "Why isn't Brazil exploiting its amazing wind capacity?"},{"date": "2014-10-24T16:41:39Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "More than 130 million Brazilians will head to the polls on Sunday to elect a new president.Incumbent Dilma Rousseff faces A\u00e9cio Neves of the centrist Brazilian Social Democracy party in a runoff vote. In the first round Dilma won 41.4% of the vote, with Neves taking 33.5%. The scale of the Neves result was particularly surprising, as it was noticeably higher than pre-election polls were showing.Neves took his surge into the first few weeks of the II round campaign, but president Dilma has since edged ahead:Rousseff received a further boost in the closing days of the campaign, with unemployment dropping to 4.9%.Three weeks ago, Rousseff\u2019s support was highest in the poorer states, the north east and north of the country where the Workers\u2019 Party core base is strongest, it will be where socialist candidate Marina Silva\u2019s first round votes go in highly populated states like Rio de Janeiro, Pernambuco - Dilma won both in 2010 - and S\u00e3o Paulo that may end up being the decisive factor.Marina Silva has endorsed Neves. Nevertheless the president goes into Sunday\u2019s vote as the favourite, but as the gap from Neves is still so close (and Brazilian polls so volatile), the final debate between contenders may still provide surprises.Before the final I round debate, Marina Silva was set for the runoff vote according to polls, and at one point she was even leading the race. Then figures released on the Saturday - and indeed the result the following day - showed Neves overtaking Silva.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Brazil election: Dilma Rousseff favourite according to polls"},{"date": "2014-10-20T12:53:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Farmers with smallholdings are not responsible for most of the destruction of Brazil\u2019s Amazon rainforest, but their contribution to deforestation is rising and must be addressed if the country is to hold on to recent gains, according to an environmental research group.Government efforts led to a 77% fall in deforestation in the Amazon between 2004 and 2011, but progress has slowed and deforestation is rising, the Stockholm Environment Institute (SEI) said in a report.The report said that between 2004 and 2011, landowners with more than 500 hectares (1,235 acres) of property were responsible for about 48% of the deforestation. Areas owned by smallholders accounted for 12% of the forests destroyed during the same period.However, since 2005, the contribution to annual deforestation by the largest landowners has fallen by 63%, while that of smallholders has increased by 69%, the report said.\u201cDespite the gains made to stem deforestation from 2004 onwards \u2026 the outlook today is not all positive,\u201d said Javier Godar, a research fellow at SEI and lead author of the study.In 2013, deforestation increased by 28% compared with the previous year.Godar said part of the reason for the rise was that many conservation areas had been scaled down or had their protection status changed, and flagship public-private initiatives, such as a moratorium on trading soya beans from newly deforested areas in the Amazon, were about to end.A boom in infrastructure projects in the Amazon since 2009, including the building of new roads and dams, may also be contributing to Brazil\u2019s rising deforestation rates, Godar said.Forest cut down for timber and turned into pasture for livestock grazing, along with soya and palm oil production, are putting pressure on the Amazon as Brazil seeks to maintain its position as the world\u2019s second-largest producer of soya beans and a leading exporter of food.\u201cDeforestation is spreading to more remote and unpopulated areas of the Amazon, where there is a weaker government presence, which shows that the agricultural frontier is still expanding and new areas are being opened up,\u201d said Godar.\u201cFurther reductions in deforestation in the Amazon are challenging, because deforestation is happening in smaller and more remote areas, and is therefore harder to detect and more expensive to control,\u201d he said.Policies to end deforestation are essential for the curbing of climate change, according to experts. But if Brazil is to cut deforestation beyond current rates, new initiatives that target small farmers are needed, the study said.It recommended schemes that would provide credit to Brazil\u2019s 6 million small landowners living in rural areas in the Amazon and promote more efficient farming techniques among small farmers and large landowners.\u201cTargeting smallholders with the same punitive measures used for large landowners, when they have far fewer resources, would be too costly and arguably not socially or politically acceptable,\u201d Godar said.\u201cThey have deforested far less than the large landowners to date \u2026 [They] hold more forested areas and their forests are, on average, in better condition, so it\u2019s important to help them to preserve those forests, rather than point the finger at them.\u201dThe UN-backed scheme Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD+), which provides financial incentives to developing countries to protect their forests, is hailed as a key initiative in the battle against the destruction of rainforests worldwide.But it has so far been \u201can experimental pilot project\u201d, Godar said, adding: \u201cAt current funding levels, the benefits of REDD+ are only likely to reach thousands of farmers, a tiny percentage of the total rural population who live in the Brazilian Amazon.\u201dGodar said he did not expect environmental issues to be a priority in Brazil before the presidential election runoff between Dilma Rousseff, the incumbent, and rival A\u00e9cio Neves on 26 October.\u201cThe main issue in the coming election, regardless of the party that will win it, is Brazil\u2019s economy, which has been in stagnation since 2011,\u201d Godar said.\u201cBoth individuals and the private sector are in debt \u2026 and so environmental issues aren\u2019t at the forefront of the candidates\u2019 or most voters\u2019 concerns.\u201d", "tags": ["Natural resources and development", "Global development", "Deforestation", "Conservation", "Trees and forests", "Amazon rainforest", "Environment", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil must target smallholders to curb\u00a0rising deforestation"},{"date": "2014-12-04T16:02:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Over the past two decades, Brazil has developed a tradition for helping move international climate negotiations forward at critical moments. However, in the face of climate emergency, lack of ambition and a set of shy measures towards carbon emission reductions can neutralise the best ideas and great diplomatic role played by the country.At the time of the Kyoto protocol, Brazil came up with the idea of a clean development fund, now the clean development mechanism, for helping developing countries engage in cutting emissions . It has also put on the table a bold, if controversial, proposal for burden-sharing based on historical responsibilities for the warming we\u2019ve seen so far.At the Copenhagen climate summit in 2009, Brazil showcased a significant voluntary target that delivered real CO2 reductions from controlling deforestation. In Durban, Brazilian diplomats used a smart twist of phrase to break a deadlock over the legal form of the 2015 climate agreement.Brazil\u2019s newest diplomatic contraption was submitted to the UN shortly before the Lima climate conference, which opened on Monday. It is a mechanism called \u201cconcentric differentiation\u201d, which allows for every country to collaborate in the effort towards the target of limiting temperature rises to 2C above pre-industrial levels. Its graphic representation consists of a series of three circles, the innermost of which should be occupied by developed countries with absolute, economy-wide targets; the middle one, by emerging economies, with intensity, per capita or relative reduction targets; and the outer circle, by other developing countries, with non-economy-wide targets. Every country should move towards the centre in time, according to its respective capabilities.While the proposal is certainly interesting for differentiating among developing countries, it still may leave major emitters such as Brazil and China off the hook, by allowing them to set targets that are not measured in absolute reductions for the post-2020 period. That would be a tragedy for the climate and also detrimental to the Brazilian economy.Brazil is far from being an innocent bystander of climate change \u2013 even by its own metric of historical responsibility. According to a recent peer-reviewed study, thanks to deforestation in the latter 20th century, the Latin American country is probably the  fourth top contributor to the observed global warming, responding for about 7% of the total temperature change. Therefore, while still a developing country, it is among the nations that should deliver ambitious emissions pledges (\u2018nationally determined contributions\u2019 in the UN jargon) for a post-2020 climate agreement.There are reasons to believe that the emission cuts the country has achieved over the past decade may now be waning. According to data released by the Climate Observatory, a coalition formed by Brazilian civil society organisations, Brazil\u2019s greenhouse gas emissions have grown 7.8% in 2013 in spite of a very low economic growth, with major contributions coming from land use and energy.Deforestation control is no longer taken for granted. Last year there was a 29% increase in the rate of forest clearing in the Amazon, and the 2015 data is pointing towards another increase.The country\u2019s energy mix is also getting dirtier: 70% of the planned investments on energy will go to fossil fuel in the next 10 years. After swearing off coal a few years back, the Brazilian government has helped it stage a comeback last month, by awarding a contract for its first new coal power plant in nine years. If Brazil is serious about the 2C goal, then it must revert to its former pathway on coal.The Climate Observatory\u2019s assessment for an equity-based 2030 climate target suggests that Brazilian non-land use emissions should peak well before 2025, and overall emissions should decline to significantly less than 1bn tons of CO2 equivalent per year by 2030. Achieving that would not be too hard for the country and can even be done while the economy grows \u2013 in fact, it can help set Brazil\u2019s struggling economy back to a growth trajectory.In 2008, the country committed itself to zero net deforestation by 2015. It could increase its planted forests area from 7m to 17m hectares by 2025. Just by implementing measures that are already in place, it could also cut emissions in the agricultural sector by one-third in 2020 \u2013 or even reach zero emissions from farming and cattle ranching if the Low Carbon Agriculture plan could be expanded to the whole set of yearly investments in agriculture.Brazil could also double its ethanol production by 2020 just by providing clear policies for the sector while reviewing its current policy of gasoline subsidies. With solar photovoltaic energy faring nearly as cheap as coal in the latest bids, and wind energy much cheaper than any fossil fuel, there is no reason for Brazil not to become again a renewables superpower. It actually might be helped in such quest by the current oil supply shock, which drove prices down and made Brazilian ultra-deep-water oil unattractive.While other big emitters, such as the EU, China and the US, start showing their cards on the climate table and betting big on renewables, Brazil seems to be holding itself back. Carlos Rittl is the executive secretary of the Brazilian Climate Observatory, a network of NGOs working on climate change", "tags": ["Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima", "Global climate talks", "Kyoto protocol", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Brazil", "Americas", "Amazon rainforest", "Deforestation", "Environment"], "title": "Brazil should take lead on climate, not just broker talks"},{"date": "2014-11-24T12:34:57Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Expanding nursery provision, improving educational standards and providing more vocational training to adults will be at the heart of Brazil\u2019s efforts to fight poverty and inequality over the next few years, according to the country\u2019s social development minister. While she trumpeted the successes of the bolsa familia poverty-relief programme \u2013 the cash handout given to almost a quarter of Brazilian families on condition that their children go to school and get vaccinated \u2013 Tereza Campello insisted that the country still had a long way to go in creating a fairer and more prosperous society.Introduced in 2003 by the government of President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, the bolsa familia is estimated to have kept 36m families out of extreme poverty and to have been responsible for a dramatic drop in infant mortality, with 0-5 deaths from diarrhoea falling by 46% and deaths from malnutrition down by 58%.But, said Campello, the programme was not solely responsible for the country\u2019s socio-economic progress: between 2002 and 2013, the poorest 20% of Brazilians saw their incomes rise by 6.2%, while those in the top 20% saw a rise of only 2.6%.\u201cEverybody thinks it\u2019s because of bolsa familia, but that\u2019s not the case,\u201d said Campello. \u201cBolsa familia is a small contributor to that, but we\u2019ve also had a 72% growth in the minimum wage \u2013 above the rate of inflation \u2013 and an increase in employment of 20.8m formal jobs.\u201d The minister, whose Workers party (PT) squeaked to victory in October\u2019s elections, stressed that education would remain the primary focus of President Dilma Rousseff\u2019s anti-poverty strategies.\u201cOur poor children don\u2019t have sufficient access to pre-school education,\u201d she said. \u201cWe want to ensure that by 2016, all children from 4-6 go to school, and we are starting to expand nursery provision for 0-3 year olds. It\u2019s particularly important in Brazil because when a child is in school, they are being stimulated and getting free school meals. It also allows the mother or the father to go to work. If you\u2019re a really poor family with small children, it\u2019s very limiting and one of the parents has to lose out.\u201dOf equal importance, said Campello, was raising educational standards by improving teacher training, building libraries and laboratories \u2013 and by ensuring that children spend a full day in school.\u201cWe\u2019ve made great efforts to have a full and integral school day,\u201d she said. \u201cGetting poorer children to stay at school all day is vital: not only do they get free meals; it also means they can be kept away from violence and criminality. We need to expand school provision, but we have a physical limitation as there are 260,000 schools in Brazil - we\u2019re not talking about a small country.\u201dCampello, who was in London to give a talk on Brazil\u2019s efforts to tackle extreme poverty, said the social and economic inclusion of adults was also \u201cabsolutely vital\u201d.Despite an unemployment rate of 4.9%, she added, the country had a serious shortage of skilled workers in the tourism and hospitality industries. \u201cOne of the main things is expanding adult opportunities in vocational qualifications,\u201d she said. \u201cA significant proportion of the population already works in those sectors, but we need to improve their skills. Training the poorest people would be an opportunity for both them and for Brazil as a whole.\u201dCampello rejected suggestions that the close election result reflected a lack of confidence in her party and its efforts to reduce inequality.\u201cWe\u2019re not taking it easy or saying that everything has been done: we still have a lot of work ahead of us,\u201d she said. \u201cBrazil was one of the most unequal countries in the world and you can\u2019t end 500 years of exclusion in 12 years. We\u2019ve made far more progress than at any other point in our history \u2013 but we still have a lot to do.\u201d", "tags": ["Universal primary education", "Global development", "Education", "Society", "Brazil", "Americas", "Poverty", "Equality", "Social exclusion", "Employment"], "title": "Brazil focuses on nurseries, schools and jobs to fight poverty"},{"date": "2014-11-21T09:00:05Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has made huge strides in divesting from fossil fuels. In 2009 the country produced a staggering 85% of its electricity from renewable resources. Nearby Argentina hit just 29.2%, while renewably generated electricity is a scant 19.5% of the world\u2019s supply. Those impressive figures have been harvested mainly through heavy investment in hydro power, with 75% of its total renewable energy coming from this resource. Meanwhile its potential for wind power has been left largely untouched. At present Brazil invests just $5.42bn (\u00a33.4bn) in wind power despite having a total estimated potential of 300 gigawatts (GW). However, spending on hydropower projects, which have a smaller total energy potential of 260GW, has topped $150bn.It seems that Brazil has no plans to change the direction of its renewables investments. Headed by the Ministry of Mines and Energy and state-run energy research company Empresa de Pesquisa Energ\u00e9tica (EPE), Brazil\u2019s 10-year plan for energy expansion states that installed capacity from hydro will increase from 84.8GW to 119GW by 2022, yet installed capacity for other renewables (small hydroelectric, biomass and wind) will rise from 15.3GW to 38.1GW in the same time period. Meanwhile there is a new emphasis on fossil fuel, with plans to increase oil production to 5m barrels per day by 2023. Roberto Kishinami, the former executive director of Greenpeace Brazil and international board member for ActionAid, says that Brazil\u2019s energy plans represent a backtrack on previous commitments to a clean energy future.He said: \u201cThis is a kind of schizophrenic plan. Solar, wind and biomass are the alternative for the future. The choices the Brazilian government is taking in the energy sector are going backwards and will squander the investments. This will make us attached to an old model based on fossil fuels that has no future and shall end in three decades.\u201dThe second most competitive renewable resource in Brazil, wind is a much cheaper source of energy than solar or biomass and generation costs have been falling for a number of years. According to the World Energy Council and Bloomberg New Energy Finance, Brazil has the world\u2019s third lowest costs for wind power generation, behind India and China. \u201cThe estimation of wind potential can even be much higher because right now we are only calculating infrastructure onshore with a certain meters high of a wind turbine and a speed average of seven meters/second,\u201d said Kishinami. Wind plants are currently about 30 to 60 meters high, he says, but new plants under construction will be 100 metres tall, meaning that they can take advantage of faster and less turbulent wind, generating more energy. \u201cWe are far behind from what we can do,\u201d said Kishinami. \u201cWe could have a national plan for installing new capacity for 1GW of wind every year.\u201d For Elbia Melo, the executive president of the Brazilian Wind Energy Association, the map of wind potential in Brazil is concentrated on poor areas with low social indexes like the states of Bahia, Rio Grande do Norte, Pernambuco, Piau\u00ed and Cear\u00e1.\u201cIt is in those regions where we have the best wind. That is to say, the poorest areas in the country are the ones that have our most abundant winds. So we also have a possibility to increase life quality, regional income and human development index,\u201d said Melo.But crucially, in her opinion, producing wind energy will not mean that smallholder farmers are forced to give up agriculture or cattle-raising activities. \u201cThose farmers will also benefit from an increase in their annual income for the next 20 years \u2013 the lifecycle of those wind turbines and towers. We will change completely the lives of those families whose survival depends on the support of social programs,\u201d she said.By the end of 2014, it is expected that 140 wind farms will be operating across Brazil, providing energy to 12m homes, and creating 120,000 jobs by 2018. \u201cBrazil has a great chance to become one of the most renewable countries, using its natural resources and being competitive at the same time,\u201d said Melo. \u201cWe already produce the cheapest wind power in the world. What we need now is to better manage our advantages.\u201dRead more stories like this:\u2022 Chile\u2019s solar market is leading the way in South America\u2022 Why has \u2018microhydro\u2019 been neglected as a solution to energy poverty?\u2022 Negotiating a cheaper clean energy deal for all\u2022 Advertisement feature: Barefoot inspiration: power to the people, from the peopleJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Renewable energy: access and investment - global development professionals network", "Global development professionals network", "Wind power", "Renewable energy", "Fossil fuels", "Brazil", "Americas", "Energy"], "title": "Why isn't Brazil exploiting its amazing wind capacity?"},{"date": "2014-10-24T16:41:39Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "More than 130 million Brazilians will head to the polls on Sunday to elect a new president.Incumbent Dilma Rousseff faces A\u00e9cio Neves of the centrist Brazilian Social Democracy party in a runoff vote. In the first round Dilma won 41.4% of the vote, with Neves taking 33.5%. The scale of the Neves result was particularly surprising, as it was noticeably higher than pre-election polls were showing.Neves took his surge into the first few weeks of the II round campaign, but president Dilma has since edged ahead:Rousseff received a further boost in the closing days of the campaign, with unemployment dropping to 4.9%.Three weeks ago, Rousseff\u2019s support was highest in the poorer states, the north east and north of the country where the Workers\u2019 Party core base is strongest, it will be where socialist candidate Marina Silva\u2019s first round votes go in highly populated states like Rio de Janeiro, Pernambuco - Dilma won both in 2010 - and S\u00e3o Paulo that may end up being the decisive factor.Marina Silva has endorsed Neves. Nevertheless the president goes into Sunday\u2019s vote as the favourite, but as the gap from Neves is still so close (and Brazilian polls so volatile), the final debate between contenders may still provide surprises.Before the final I round debate, Marina Silva was set for the runoff vote according to polls, and at one point she was even leading the race. Then figures released on the Saturday - and indeed the result the following day - showed Neves overtaking Silva.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Brazil election: Dilma Rousseff favourite according to polls"},{"date": "2014-10-20T12:53:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Farmers with smallholdings are not responsible for most of the destruction of Brazil\u2019s Amazon rainforest, but their contribution to deforestation is rising and must be addressed if the country is to hold on to recent gains, according to an environmental research group.Government efforts led to a 77% fall in deforestation in the Amazon between 2004 and 2011, but progress has slowed and deforestation is rising, the Stockholm Environment Institute (SEI) said in a report.The report said that between 2004 and 2011, landowners with more than 500 hectares (1,235 acres) of property were responsible for about 48% of the deforestation. Areas owned by smallholders accounted for 12% of the forests destroyed during the same period.However, since 2005, the contribution to annual deforestation by the largest landowners has fallen by 63%, while that of smallholders has increased by 69%, the report said.\u201cDespite the gains made to stem deforestation from 2004 onwards \u2026 the outlook today is not all positive,\u201d said Javier Godar, a research fellow at SEI and lead author of the study.In 2013, deforestation increased by 28% compared with the previous year.Godar said part of the reason for the rise was that many conservation areas had been scaled down or had their protection status changed, and flagship public-private initiatives, such as a moratorium on trading soya beans from newly deforested areas in the Amazon, were about to end.A boom in infrastructure projects in the Amazon since 2009, including the building of new roads and dams, may also be contributing to Brazil\u2019s rising deforestation rates, Godar said.Forest cut down for timber and turned into pasture for livestock grazing, along with soya and palm oil production, are putting pressure on the Amazon as Brazil seeks to maintain its position as the world\u2019s second-largest producer of soya beans and a leading exporter of food.\u201cDeforestation is spreading to more remote and unpopulated areas of the Amazon, where there is a weaker government presence, which shows that the agricultural frontier is still expanding and new areas are being opened up,\u201d said Godar.\u201cFurther reductions in deforestation in the Amazon are challenging, because deforestation is happening in smaller and more remote areas, and is therefore harder to detect and more expensive to control,\u201d he said.Policies to end deforestation are essential for the curbing of climate change, according to experts. But if Brazil is to cut deforestation beyond current rates, new initiatives that target small farmers are needed, the study said.It recommended schemes that would provide credit to Brazil\u2019s 6 million small landowners living in rural areas in the Amazon and promote more efficient farming techniques among small farmers and large landowners.\u201cTargeting smallholders with the same punitive measures used for large landowners, when they have far fewer resources, would be too costly and arguably not socially or politically acceptable,\u201d Godar said.\u201cThey have deforested far less than the large landowners to date \u2026 [They] hold more forested areas and their forests are, on average, in better condition, so it\u2019s important to help them to preserve those forests, rather than point the finger at them.\u201dThe UN-backed scheme Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD+), which provides financial incentives to developing countries to protect their forests, is hailed as a key initiative in the battle against the destruction of rainforests worldwide.But it has so far been \u201can experimental pilot project\u201d, Godar said, adding: \u201cAt current funding levels, the benefits of REDD+ are only likely to reach thousands of farmers, a tiny percentage of the total rural population who live in the Brazilian Amazon.\u201dGodar said he did not expect environmental issues to be a priority in Brazil before the presidential election runoff between Dilma Rousseff, the incumbent, and rival A\u00e9cio Neves on 26 October.\u201cThe main issue in the coming election, regardless of the party that will win it, is Brazil\u2019s economy, which has been in stagnation since 2011,\u201d Godar said.\u201cBoth individuals and the private sector are in debt \u2026 and so environmental issues aren\u2019t at the forefront of the candidates\u2019 or most voters\u2019 concerns.\u201d", "tags": ["Natural resources and development", "Global development", "Deforestation", "Conservation", "Trees and forests", "Amazon rainforest", "Environment", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil must target smallholders to curb\u00a0rising deforestation"},{"date": "2014-10-16T10:22:23Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "In September 2013, Santander Brazil, Brazil\u2019s third largest privately owned bank with more than 28 million customers, joined the Business Call to Action with an initiative designed to scale-up its microcredit offerings and financial education services for micro-entrepreneurs. In this video, Carlos Nomoto, Santander Brazil\u2019s director of sustainability shares the insights about the inspiration behind the initiative and company\u2019s commitment to inclusive business. Launched at the United Nations, the Business Call to Action is a global alliance hosted by the United Nations Development Programme Headquarters in New York. Follow: @BCtAInitiativeCopy on this page is provided by Business Call to Action, supporter of the role of business in development hub", "tags": ["business call to action partner zone"], "title": "Q&A: Santander Brazil on inclusive financial services - video"},{"date": "2014-12-04T16:02:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Over the past two decades, Brazil has developed a tradition for helping move international climate negotiations forward at critical moments. However, in the face of climate emergency, lack of ambition and a set of shy measures towards carbon emission reductions can neutralise the best ideas and great diplomatic role played by the country.At the time of the Kyoto protocol, Brazil came up with the idea of a clean development fund, now the clean development mechanism, for helping developing countries engage in cutting emissions . It has also put on the table a bold, if controversial, proposal for burden-sharing based on historical responsibilities for the warming we\u2019ve seen so far.At the Copenhagen climate summit in 2009, Brazil showcased a significant voluntary target that delivered real CO2 reductions from controlling deforestation. In Durban, Brazilian diplomats used a smart twist of phrase to break a deadlock over the legal form of the 2015 climate agreement.Brazil\u2019s newest diplomatic contraption was submitted to the UN shortly before the Lima climate conference, which opened on Monday. It is a mechanism called \u201cconcentric differentiation\u201d, which allows for every country to collaborate in the effort towards the target of limiting temperature rises to 2C above pre-industrial levels. Its graphic representation consists of a series of three circles, the innermost of which should be occupied by developed countries with absolute, economy-wide targets; the middle one, by emerging economies, with intensity, per capita or relative reduction targets; and the outer circle, by other developing countries, with non-economy-wide targets. Every country should move towards the centre in time, according to its respective capabilities.While the proposal is certainly interesting for differentiating among developing countries, it still may leave major emitters such as Brazil and China off the hook, by allowing them to set targets that are not measured in absolute reductions for the post-2020 period. That would be a tragedy for the climate and also detrimental to the Brazilian economy.Brazil is far from being an innocent bystander of climate change \u2013 even by its own metric of historical responsibility. According to a recent peer-reviewed study, thanks to deforestation in the latter 20th century, the Latin American country is probably the  fourth top contributor to the observed global warming, responding for about 7% of the total temperature change. Therefore, while still a developing country, it is among the nations that should deliver ambitious emissions pledges (\u2018nationally determined contributions\u2019 in the UN jargon) for a post-2020 climate agreement.There are reasons to believe that the emission cuts the country has achieved over the past decade may now be waning. According to data released by the Climate Observatory, a coalition formed by Brazilian civil society organisations, Brazil\u2019s greenhouse gas emissions have grown 7.8% in 2013 in spite of a very low economic growth, with major contributions coming from land use and energy.Deforestation control is no longer taken for granted. Last year there was a 29% increase in the rate of forest clearing in the Amazon, and the 2015 data is pointing towards another increase.The country\u2019s energy mix is also getting dirtier: 70% of the planned investments on energy will go to fossil fuel in the next 10 years. After swearing off coal a few years back, the Brazilian government has helped it stage a comeback last month, by awarding a contract for its first new coal power plant in nine years. If Brazil is serious about the 2C goal, then it must revert to its former pathway on coal.The Climate Observatory\u2019s assessment for an equity-based 2030 climate target suggests that Brazilian non-land use emissions should peak well before 2025, and overall emissions should decline to significantly less than 1bn tons of CO2 equivalent per year by 2030. Achieving that would not be too hard for the country and can even be done while the economy grows \u2013 in fact, it can help set Brazil\u2019s struggling economy back to a growth trajectory.In 2008, the country committed itself to zero net deforestation by 2015. It could increase its planted forests area from 7m to 17m hectares by 2025. Just by implementing measures that are already in place, it could also cut emissions in the agricultural sector by one-third in 2020 \u2013 or even reach zero emissions from farming and cattle ranching if the Low Carbon Agriculture plan could be expanded to the whole set of yearly investments in agriculture.Brazil could also double its ethanol production by 2020 just by providing clear policies for the sector while reviewing its current policy of gasoline subsidies. With solar photovoltaic energy faring nearly as cheap as coal in the latest bids, and wind energy much cheaper than any fossil fuel, there is no reason for Brazil not to become again a renewables superpower. It actually might be helped in such quest by the current oil supply shock, which drove prices down and made Brazilian ultra-deep-water oil unattractive.While other big emitters, such as the EU, China and the US, start showing their cards on the climate table and betting big on renewables, Brazil seems to be holding itself back. Carlos Rittl is the executive secretary of the Brazilian Climate Observatory, a network of NGOs working on climate change", "tags": ["Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima", "Global climate talks", "Kyoto protocol", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Brazil", "Americas", "Amazon rainforest", "Deforestation", "Environment"], "title": "Brazil should take lead on climate, not just broker talks"},{"date": "2014-11-24T12:34:57Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Expanding nursery provision, improving educational standards and providing more vocational training to adults will be at the heart of Brazil\u2019s efforts to fight poverty and inequality over the next few years, according to the country\u2019s social development minister. While she trumpeted the successes of the bolsa familia poverty-relief programme \u2013 the cash handout given to almost a quarter of Brazilian families on condition that their children go to school and get vaccinated \u2013 Tereza Campello insisted that the country still had a long way to go in creating a fairer and more prosperous society.Introduced in 2003 by the government of President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, the bolsa familia is estimated to have kept 36m families out of extreme poverty and to have been responsible for a dramatic drop in infant mortality, with 0-5 deaths from diarrhoea falling by 46% and deaths from malnutrition down by 58%.But, said Campello, the programme was not solely responsible for the country\u2019s socio-economic progress: between 2002 and 2013, the poorest 20% of Brazilians saw their incomes rise by 6.2%, while those in the top 20% saw a rise of only 2.6%.\u201cEverybody thinks it\u2019s because of bolsa familia, but that\u2019s not the case,\u201d said Campello. \u201cBolsa familia is a small contributor to that, but we\u2019ve also had a 72% growth in the minimum wage \u2013 above the rate of inflation \u2013 and an increase in employment of 20.8m formal jobs.\u201d The minister, whose Workers party (PT) squeaked to victory in October\u2019s elections, stressed that education would remain the primary focus of President Dilma Rousseff\u2019s anti-poverty strategies.\u201cOur poor children don\u2019t have sufficient access to pre-school education,\u201d she said. \u201cWe want to ensure that by 2016, all children from 4-6 go to school, and we are starting to expand nursery provision for 0-3 year olds. It\u2019s particularly important in Brazil because when a child is in school, they are being stimulated and getting free school meals. It also allows the mother or the father to go to work. If you\u2019re a really poor family with small children, it\u2019s very limiting and one of the parents has to lose out.\u201dOf equal importance, said Campello, was raising educational standards by improving teacher training, building libraries and laboratories \u2013 and by ensuring that children spend a full day in school.\u201cWe\u2019ve made great efforts to have a full and integral school day,\u201d she said. \u201cGetting poorer children to stay at school all day is vital: not only do they get free meals; it also means they can be kept away from violence and criminality. We need to expand school provision, but we have a physical limitation as there are 260,000 schools in Brazil - we\u2019re not talking about a small country.\u201dCampello, who was in London to give a talk on Brazil\u2019s efforts to tackle extreme poverty, said the social and economic inclusion of adults was also \u201cabsolutely vital\u201d.Despite an unemployment rate of 4.9%, she added, the country had a serious shortage of skilled workers in the tourism and hospitality industries. \u201cOne of the main things is expanding adult opportunities in vocational qualifications,\u201d she said. \u201cA significant proportion of the population already works in those sectors, but we need to improve their skills. Training the poorest people would be an opportunity for both them and for Brazil as a whole.\u201dCampello rejected suggestions that the close election result reflected a lack of confidence in her party and its efforts to reduce inequality.\u201cWe\u2019re not taking it easy or saying that everything has been done: we still have a lot of work ahead of us,\u201d she said. \u201cBrazil was one of the most unequal countries in the world and you can\u2019t end 500 years of exclusion in 12 years. We\u2019ve made far more progress than at any other point in our history \u2013 but we still have a lot to do.\u201d", "tags": ["Universal primary education", "Global development", "Education", "Society", "Brazil", "Americas", "Poverty", "Equality", "Social exclusion", "Employment"], "title": "Brazil focuses on nurseries, schools and jobs to fight poverty"},{"date": "2014-11-21T09:00:05Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has made huge strides in divesting from fossil fuels. In 2009 the country produced a staggering 85% of its electricity from renewable resources. Nearby Argentina hit just 29.2%, while renewably generated electricity is a scant 19.5% of the world\u2019s supply. Those impressive figures have been harvested mainly through heavy investment in hydro power, with 75% of its total renewable energy coming from this resource. Meanwhile its potential for wind power has been left largely untouched. At present Brazil invests just $5.42bn (\u00a33.4bn) in wind power despite having a total estimated potential of 300 gigawatts (GW). However, spending on hydropower projects, which have a smaller total energy potential of 260GW, has topped $150bn.It seems that Brazil has no plans to change the direction of its renewables investments. Headed by the Ministry of Mines and Energy and state-run energy research company Empresa de Pesquisa Energ\u00e9tica (EPE), Brazil\u2019s 10-year plan for energy expansion states that installed capacity from hydro will increase from 84.8GW to 119GW by 2022, yet installed capacity for other renewables (small hydroelectric, biomass and wind) will rise from 15.3GW to 38.1GW in the same time period. Meanwhile there is a new emphasis on fossil fuel, with plans to increase oil production to 5m barrels per day by 2023. Roberto Kishinami, the former executive director of Greenpeace Brazil and international board member for ActionAid, says that Brazil\u2019s energy plans represent a backtrack on previous commitments to a clean energy future.He said: \u201cThis is a kind of schizophrenic plan. Solar, wind and biomass are the alternative for the future. The choices the Brazilian government is taking in the energy sector are going backwards and will squander the investments. This will make us attached to an old model based on fossil fuels that has no future and shall end in three decades.\u201dThe second most competitive renewable resource in Brazil, wind is a much cheaper source of energy than solar or biomass and generation costs have been falling for a number of years. According to the World Energy Council and Bloomberg New Energy Finance, Brazil has the world\u2019s third lowest costs for wind power generation, behind India and China. \u201cThe estimation of wind potential can even be much higher because right now we are only calculating infrastructure onshore with a certain meters high of a wind turbine and a speed average of seven meters/second,\u201d said Kishinami. Wind plants are currently about 30 to 60 meters high, he says, but new plants under construction will be 100 metres tall, meaning that they can take advantage of faster and less turbulent wind, generating more energy. \u201cWe are far behind from what we can do,\u201d said Kishinami. \u201cWe could have a national plan for installing new capacity for 1GW of wind every year.\u201d For Elbia Melo, the executive president of the Brazilian Wind Energy Association, the map of wind potential in Brazil is concentrated on poor areas with low social indexes like the states of Bahia, Rio Grande do Norte, Pernambuco, Piau\u00ed and Cear\u00e1.\u201cIt is in those regions where we have the best wind. That is to say, the poorest areas in the country are the ones that have our most abundant winds. So we also have a possibility to increase life quality, regional income and human development index,\u201d said Melo.But crucially, in her opinion, producing wind energy will not mean that smallholder farmers are forced to give up agriculture or cattle-raising activities. \u201cThose farmers will also benefit from an increase in their annual income for the next 20 years \u2013 the lifecycle of those wind turbines and towers. We will change completely the lives of those families whose survival depends on the support of social programs,\u201d she said.By the end of 2014, it is expected that 140 wind farms will be operating across Brazil, providing energy to 12m homes, and creating 120,000 jobs by 2018. \u201cBrazil has a great chance to become one of the most renewable countries, using its natural resources and being competitive at the same time,\u201d said Melo. \u201cWe already produce the cheapest wind power in the world. What we need now is to better manage our advantages.\u201dRead more stories like this:\u2022 Chile\u2019s solar market is leading the way in South America\u2022 Why has \u2018microhydro\u2019 been neglected as a solution to energy poverty?\u2022 Negotiating a cheaper clean energy deal for all\u2022 Advertisement feature: Barefoot inspiration: power to the people, from the peopleJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Renewable energy: access and investment - global development professionals network", "Global development professionals network", "Wind power", "Renewable energy", "Fossil fuels", "Brazil", "Americas", "Energy"], "title": "Why isn't Brazil exploiting its amazing wind capacity?"},{"date": "2014-10-24T16:41:39Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "More than 130 million Brazilians will head to the polls on Sunday to elect a new president.Incumbent Dilma Rousseff faces A\u00e9cio Neves of the centrist Brazilian Social Democracy party in a runoff vote. In the first round Dilma won 41.4% of the vote, with Neves taking 33.5%. The scale of the Neves result was particularly surprising, as it was noticeably higher than pre-election polls were showing.Neves took his surge into the first few weeks of the II round campaign, but president Dilma has since edged ahead:Rousseff received a further boost in the closing days of the campaign, with unemployment dropping to 4.9%.Three weeks ago, Rousseff\u2019s support was highest in the poorer states, the north east and north of the country where the Workers\u2019 Party core base is strongest, it will be where socialist candidate Marina Silva\u2019s first round votes go in highly populated states like Rio de Janeiro, Pernambuco - Dilma won both in 2010 - and S\u00e3o Paulo that may end up being the decisive factor.Marina Silva has endorsed Neves. Nevertheless the president goes into Sunday\u2019s vote as the favourite, but as the gap from Neves is still so close (and Brazilian polls so volatile), the final debate between contenders may still provide surprises.Before the final I round debate, Marina Silva was set for the runoff vote according to polls, and at one point she was even leading the race. Then figures released on the Saturday - and indeed the result the following day - showed Neves overtaking Silva.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Brazil election: Dilma Rousseff favourite according to polls"},{"date": "2014-10-20T12:53:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Farmers with smallholdings are not responsible for most of the destruction of Brazil\u2019s Amazon rainforest, but their contribution to deforestation is rising and must be addressed if the country is to hold on to recent gains, according to an environmental research group.Government efforts led to a 77% fall in deforestation in the Amazon between 2004 and 2011, but progress has slowed and deforestation is rising, the Stockholm Environment Institute (SEI) said in a report.The report said that between 2004 and 2011, landowners with more than 500 hectares (1,235 acres) of property were responsible for about 48% of the deforestation. Areas owned by smallholders accounted for 12% of the forests destroyed during the same period.However, since 2005, the contribution to annual deforestation by the largest landowners has fallen by 63%, while that of smallholders has increased by 69%, the report said.\u201cDespite the gains made to stem deforestation from 2004 onwards \u2026 the outlook today is not all positive,\u201d said Javier Godar, a research fellow at SEI and lead author of the study.In 2013, deforestation increased by 28% compared with the previous year.Godar said part of the reason for the rise was that many conservation areas had been scaled down or had their protection status changed, and flagship public-private initiatives, such as a moratorium on trading soya beans from newly deforested areas in the Amazon, were about to end.A boom in infrastructure projects in the Amazon since 2009, including the building of new roads and dams, may also be contributing to Brazil\u2019s rising deforestation rates, Godar said.Forest cut down for timber and turned into pasture for livestock grazing, along with soya and palm oil production, are putting pressure on the Amazon as Brazil seeks to maintain its position as the world\u2019s second-largest producer of soya beans and a leading exporter of food.\u201cDeforestation is spreading to more remote and unpopulated areas of the Amazon, where there is a weaker government presence, which shows that the agricultural frontier is still expanding and new areas are being opened up,\u201d said Godar.\u201cFurther reductions in deforestation in the Amazon are challenging, because deforestation is happening in smaller and more remote areas, and is therefore harder to detect and more expensive to control,\u201d he said.Policies to end deforestation are essential for the curbing of climate change, according to experts. But if Brazil is to cut deforestation beyond current rates, new initiatives that target small farmers are needed, the study said.It recommended schemes that would provide credit to Brazil\u2019s 6 million small landowners living in rural areas in the Amazon and promote more efficient farming techniques among small farmers and large landowners.\u201cTargeting smallholders with the same punitive measures used for large landowners, when they have far fewer resources, would be too costly and arguably not socially or politically acceptable,\u201d Godar said.\u201cThey have deforested far less than the large landowners to date \u2026 [They] hold more forested areas and their forests are, on average, in better condition, so it\u2019s important to help them to preserve those forests, rather than point the finger at them.\u201dThe UN-backed scheme Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD+), which provides financial incentives to developing countries to protect their forests, is hailed as a key initiative in the battle against the destruction of rainforests worldwide.But it has so far been \u201can experimental pilot project\u201d, Godar said, adding: \u201cAt current funding levels, the benefits of REDD+ are only likely to reach thousands of farmers, a tiny percentage of the total rural population who live in the Brazilian Amazon.\u201dGodar said he did not expect environmental issues to be a priority in Brazil before the presidential election runoff between Dilma Rousseff, the incumbent, and rival A\u00e9cio Neves on 26 October.\u201cThe main issue in the coming election, regardless of the party that will win it, is Brazil\u2019s economy, which has been in stagnation since 2011,\u201d Godar said.\u201cBoth individuals and the private sector are in debt \u2026 and so environmental issues aren\u2019t at the forefront of the candidates\u2019 or most voters\u2019 concerns.\u201d", "tags": ["Natural resources and development", "Global development", "Deforestation", "Conservation", "Trees and forests", "Amazon rainforest", "Environment", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil must target smallholders to curb\u00a0rising deforestation"},{"date": "2014-10-16T10:22:23Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "In September 2013, Santander Brazil, Brazil\u2019s third largest privately owned bank with more than 28 million customers, joined the Business Call to Action with an initiative designed to scale-up its microcredit offerings and financial education services for micro-entrepreneurs. In this video, Carlos Nomoto, Santander Brazil\u2019s director of sustainability shares the insights about the inspiration behind the initiative and company\u2019s commitment to inclusive business. Launched at the United Nations, the Business Call to Action is a global alliance hosted by the United Nations Development Programme Headquarters in New York. Follow: @BCtAInitiativeCopy on this page is provided by Business Call to Action, supporter of the role of business in development hub", "tags": ["business call to action partner zone"], "title": "Q&A: Santander Brazil on inclusive financial services - video"},{"date": "2014-10-09T11:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": " With help from the Rainforest Alliance, a brave young Costa Rican tree frog is traveling around the world to make new friends and find out what humans are doing to help save her home. This is the third in a series of five weekly dispatches about her experiences.Marcelo de Souza stands like a commander surveying the kitchen of his popular restaurant in Vila Madalena, a trendy quarter of S\u00e3o Paulo. The farm-to-table movement is catching fire, and with his own greenhouse, street-side herb garden, and steady supply of grass-fed beef shipped in from just outside the city, Chef Marcelo is poised to transform the way this city eats. He barks at his sous chefs, then turns his intimidating gaze to the restaurant manager. I listen to his outburst while nestled deep in his jacket pocket. He\u2019s just learned that the new manager, hoping to save a few centavos, changed the restaurant\u2019s latest order of grass-fed beef to conventional beef. Soon Marcelo is out the door headed to the supplier to straighten things out. But as he passes the neighborhood\u2019s organic farmers\u2019 market, one of only a handful in this city of 12 million, he can\u2019t resist stopping. \u201cChef\u00e3o!\u201d a vendor cries. \u201cYou must try this!\u201d A spoonful of Amazonian honey sends Marcelo into a reverie. Leaping from his pocket to the table to catch a drop of honey, I point to the price tag. Marcelo balks. The vendor explains that deforestation caused by the huge increase in grass-fed beef has reduced honeybee populations, making it harder for beekeepers to earn a living. \u201cForty-thousand square miles of rainforest cleared for cattle grazing?! Fala s\u00e9rio?\u201d he asks. The man nods grimly. \u201cIt\u2019s true. Grass-fed cattle ranches may produce better quality than feedlots, but for us they have been a curse. Fortunately, you can find certified cattle farms that raise grass-fed beef sustainably,\u201d the vendor says, handing him a brochure and pointing to a booth down the street. \u201cHmm. More trees, cleaner operations, and lower greenhouse emissions? I\u2019ll check it out.\u201d I jump back in his pocket, ready for our next stop. My afternoon pocket nap will have to wait.Content on this page is provided by the Rainforest Alliance, supporter of the Vital Signs platform.More from the Frog Diaries series: ", "tags": ["Rainforest Alliance partner zone"], "title": "Frog diaries: explore Brazil with the Rainforest Alliance frog"},{"date": "2014-12-04T16:02:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Over the past two decades, Brazil has developed a tradition for helping move international climate negotiations forward at critical moments. However, in the face of climate emergency, lack of ambition and a set of shy measures towards carbon emission reductions can neutralise the best ideas and great diplomatic role played by the country.At the time of the Kyoto protocol, Brazil came up with the idea of a clean development fund, now the clean development mechanism, for helping developing countries engage in cutting emissions . It has also put on the table a bold, if controversial, proposal for burden-sharing based on historical responsibilities for the warming we\u2019ve seen so far.At the Copenhagen climate summit in 2009, Brazil showcased a significant voluntary target that delivered real CO2 reductions from controlling deforestation. In Durban, Brazilian diplomats used a smart twist of phrase to break a deadlock over the legal form of the 2015 climate agreement.Brazil\u2019s newest diplomatic contraption was submitted to the UN shortly before the Lima climate conference, which opened on Monday. It is a mechanism called \u201cconcentric differentiation\u201d, which allows for every country to collaborate in the effort towards the target of limiting temperature rises to 2C above pre-industrial levels. Its graphic representation consists of a series of three circles, the innermost of which should be occupied by developed countries with absolute, economy-wide targets; the middle one, by emerging economies, with intensity, per capita or relative reduction targets; and the outer circle, by other developing countries, with non-economy-wide targets. Every country should move towards the centre in time, according to its respective capabilities.While the proposal is certainly interesting for differentiating among developing countries, it still may leave major emitters such as Brazil and China off the hook, by allowing them to set targets that are not measured in absolute reductions for the post-2020 period. That would be a tragedy for the climate and also detrimental to the Brazilian economy.Brazil is far from being an innocent bystander of climate change \u2013 even by its own metric of historical responsibility. According to a recent peer-reviewed study, thanks to deforestation in the latter 20th century, the Latin American country is probably the  fourth top contributor to the observed global warming, responding for about 7% of the total temperature change. Therefore, while still a developing country, it is among the nations that should deliver ambitious emissions pledges (\u2018nationally determined contributions\u2019 in the UN jargon) for a post-2020 climate agreement.There are reasons to believe that the emission cuts the country has achieved over the past decade may now be waning. According to data released by the Climate Observatory, a coalition formed by Brazilian civil society organisations, Brazil\u2019s greenhouse gas emissions have grown 7.8% in 2013 in spite of a very low economic growth, with major contributions coming from land use and energy.Deforestation control is no longer taken for granted. Last year there was a 29% increase in the rate of forest clearing in the Amazon, and the 2015 data is pointing towards another increase.The country\u2019s energy mix is also getting dirtier: 70% of the planned investments on energy will go to fossil fuel in the next 10 years. After swearing off coal a few years back, the Brazilian government has helped it stage a comeback last month, by awarding a contract for its first new coal power plant in nine years. If Brazil is serious about the 2C goal, then it must revert to its former pathway on coal.The Climate Observatory\u2019s assessment for an equity-based 2030 climate target suggests that Brazilian non-land use emissions should peak well before 2025, and overall emissions should decline to significantly less than 1bn tons of CO2 equivalent per year by 2030. Achieving that would not be too hard for the country and can even be done while the economy grows \u2013 in fact, it can help set Brazil\u2019s struggling economy back to a growth trajectory.In 2008, the country committed itself to zero net deforestation by 2015. It could increase its planted forests area from 7m to 17m hectares by 2025. Just by implementing measures that are already in place, it could also cut emissions in the agricultural sector by one-third in 2020 \u2013 or even reach zero emissions from farming and cattle ranching if the Low Carbon Agriculture plan could be expanded to the whole set of yearly investments in agriculture.Brazil could also double its ethanol production by 2020 just by providing clear policies for the sector while reviewing its current policy of gasoline subsidies. With solar photovoltaic energy faring nearly as cheap as coal in the latest bids, and wind energy much cheaper than any fossil fuel, there is no reason for Brazil not to become again a renewables superpower. It actually might be helped in such quest by the current oil supply shock, which drove prices down and made Brazilian ultra-deep-water oil unattractive.While other big emitters, such as the EU, China and the US, start showing their cards on the climate table and betting big on renewables, Brazil seems to be holding itself back. Carlos Rittl is the executive secretary of the Brazilian Climate Observatory, a network of NGOs working on climate change", "tags": ["Cop 20: UN climate change conference | Lima", "Global climate talks", "Kyoto protocol", "Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Brazil", "Americas", "Amazon rainforest", "Deforestation", "Environment"], "title": "Brazil should take lead on climate, not just broker talks"},{"date": "2014-11-24T12:34:57Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Expanding nursery provision, improving educational standards and providing more vocational training to adults will be at the heart of Brazil\u2019s efforts to fight poverty and inequality over the next few years, according to the country\u2019s social development minister. While she trumpeted the successes of the bolsa familia poverty-relief programme \u2013 the cash handout given to almost a quarter of Brazilian families on condition that their children go to school and get vaccinated \u2013 Tereza Campello insisted that the country still had a long way to go in creating a fairer and more prosperous society.Introduced in 2003 by the government of President Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, the bolsa familia is estimated to have kept 36m families out of extreme poverty and to have been responsible for a dramatic drop in infant mortality, with 0-5 deaths from diarrhoea falling by 46% and deaths from malnutrition down by 58%.But, said Campello, the programme was not solely responsible for the country\u2019s socio-economic progress: between 2002 and 2013, the poorest 20% of Brazilians saw their incomes rise by 6.2%, while those in the top 20% saw a rise of only 2.6%.\u201cEverybody thinks it\u2019s because of bolsa familia, but that\u2019s not the case,\u201d said Campello. \u201cBolsa familia is a small contributor to that, but we\u2019ve also had a 72% growth in the minimum wage \u2013 above the rate of inflation \u2013 and an increase in employment of 20.8m formal jobs.\u201d The minister, whose Workers party (PT) squeaked to victory in October\u2019s elections, stressed that education would remain the primary focus of President Dilma Rousseff\u2019s anti-poverty strategies.\u201cOur poor children don\u2019t have sufficient access to pre-school education,\u201d she said. \u201cWe want to ensure that by 2016, all children from 4-6 go to school, and we are starting to expand nursery provision for 0-3 year olds. It\u2019s particularly important in Brazil because when a child is in school, they are being stimulated and getting free school meals. It also allows the mother or the father to go to work. If you\u2019re a really poor family with small children, it\u2019s very limiting and one of the parents has to lose out.\u201dOf equal importance, said Campello, was raising educational standards by improving teacher training, building libraries and laboratories \u2013 and by ensuring that children spend a full day in school.\u201cWe\u2019ve made great efforts to have a full and integral school day,\u201d she said. \u201cGetting poorer children to stay at school all day is vital: not only do they get free meals; it also means they can be kept away from violence and criminality. We need to expand school provision, but we have a physical limitation as there are 260,000 schools in Brazil - we\u2019re not talking about a small country.\u201dCampello, who was in London to give a talk on Brazil\u2019s efforts to tackle extreme poverty, said the social and economic inclusion of adults was also \u201cabsolutely vital\u201d.Despite an unemployment rate of 4.9%, she added, the country had a serious shortage of skilled workers in the tourism and hospitality industries. \u201cOne of the main things is expanding adult opportunities in vocational qualifications,\u201d she said. \u201cA significant proportion of the population already works in those sectors, but we need to improve their skills. Training the poorest people would be an opportunity for both them and for Brazil as a whole.\u201dCampello rejected suggestions that the close election result reflected a lack of confidence in her party and its efforts to reduce inequality.\u201cWe\u2019re not taking it easy or saying that everything has been done: we still have a lot of work ahead of us,\u201d she said. \u201cBrazil was one of the most unequal countries in the world and you can\u2019t end 500 years of exclusion in 12 years. We\u2019ve made far more progress than at any other point in our history \u2013 but we still have a lot to do.\u201d", "tags": ["Universal primary education", "Global development", "Education", "Society", "Brazil", "Americas", "Poverty", "Equality", "Social exclusion", "Employment"], "title": "Brazil focuses on nurseries, schools and jobs to fight poverty"},{"date": "2014-11-21T09:00:05Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has made huge strides in divesting from fossil fuels. In 2009 the country produced a staggering 85% of its electricity from renewable resources. Nearby Argentina hit just 29.2%, while renewably generated electricity is a scant 19.5% of the world\u2019s supply. Those impressive figures have been harvested mainly through heavy investment in hydro power, with 75% of its total renewable energy coming from this resource. Meanwhile its potential for wind power has been left largely untouched. At present Brazil invests just $5.42bn (\u00a33.4bn) in wind power despite having a total estimated potential of 300 gigawatts (GW). However, spending on hydropower projects, which have a smaller total energy potential of 260GW, has topped $150bn.It seems that Brazil has no plans to change the direction of its renewables investments. Headed by the Ministry of Mines and Energy and state-run energy research company Empresa de Pesquisa Energ\u00e9tica (EPE), Brazil\u2019s 10-year plan for energy expansion states that installed capacity from hydro will increase from 84.8GW to 119GW by 2022, yet installed capacity for other renewables (small hydroelectric, biomass and wind) will rise from 15.3GW to 38.1GW in the same time period. Meanwhile there is a new emphasis on fossil fuel, with plans to increase oil production to 5m barrels per day by 2023. Roberto Kishinami, the former executive director of Greenpeace Brazil and international board member for ActionAid, says that Brazil\u2019s energy plans represent a backtrack on previous commitments to a clean energy future.He said: \u201cThis is a kind of schizophrenic plan. Solar, wind and biomass are the alternative for the future. The choices the Brazilian government is taking in the energy sector are going backwards and will squander the investments. This will make us attached to an old model based on fossil fuels that has no future and shall end in three decades.\u201dThe second most competitive renewable resource in Brazil, wind is a much cheaper source of energy than solar or biomass and generation costs have been falling for a number of years. According to the World Energy Council and Bloomberg New Energy Finance, Brazil has the world\u2019s third lowest costs for wind power generation, behind India and China. \u201cThe estimation of wind potential can even be much higher because right now we are only calculating infrastructure onshore with a certain meters high of a wind turbine and a speed average of seven meters/second,\u201d said Kishinami. Wind plants are currently about 30 to 60 meters high, he says, but new plants under construction will be 100 metres tall, meaning that they can take advantage of faster and less turbulent wind, generating more energy. \u201cWe are far behind from what we can do,\u201d said Kishinami. \u201cWe could have a national plan for installing new capacity for 1GW of wind every year.\u201d For Elbia Melo, the executive president of the Brazilian Wind Energy Association, the map of wind potential in Brazil is concentrated on poor areas with low social indexes like the states of Bahia, Rio Grande do Norte, Pernambuco, Piau\u00ed and Cear\u00e1.\u201cIt is in those regions where we have the best wind. That is to say, the poorest areas in the country are the ones that have our most abundant winds. So we also have a possibility to increase life quality, regional income and human development index,\u201d said Melo.But crucially, in her opinion, producing wind energy will not mean that smallholder farmers are forced to give up agriculture or cattle-raising activities. \u201cThose farmers will also benefit from an increase in their annual income for the next 20 years \u2013 the lifecycle of those wind turbines and towers. We will change completely the lives of those families whose survival depends on the support of social programs,\u201d she said.By the end of 2014, it is expected that 140 wind farms will be operating across Brazil, providing energy to 12m homes, and creating 120,000 jobs by 2018. \u201cBrazil has a great chance to become one of the most renewable countries, using its natural resources and being competitive at the same time,\u201d said Melo. \u201cWe already produce the cheapest wind power in the world. What we need now is to better manage our advantages.\u201dRead more stories like this:\u2022 Chile\u2019s solar market is leading the way in South America\u2022 Why has \u2018microhydro\u2019 been neglected as a solution to energy poverty?\u2022 Negotiating a cheaper clean energy deal for all\u2022 Advertisement feature: Barefoot inspiration: power to the people, from the peopleJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Renewable energy: access and investment - global development professionals network", "Global development professionals network", "Wind power", "Renewable energy", "Fossil fuels", "Brazil", "Americas", "Energy"], "title": "Why isn't Brazil exploiting its amazing wind capacity?"},{"date": "2014-10-24T16:41:39Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "More than 130 million Brazilians will head to the polls on Sunday to elect a new president.Incumbent Dilma Rousseff faces A\u00e9cio Neves of the centrist Brazilian Social Democracy party in a runoff vote. In the first round Dilma won 41.4% of the vote, with Neves taking 33.5%. The scale of the Neves result was particularly surprising, as it was noticeably higher than pre-election polls were showing.Neves took his surge into the first few weeks of the II round campaign, but president Dilma has since edged ahead:Rousseff received a further boost in the closing days of the campaign, with unemployment dropping to 4.9%.Three weeks ago, Rousseff\u2019s support was highest in the poorer states, the north east and north of the country where the Workers\u2019 Party core base is strongest, it will be where socialist candidate Marina Silva\u2019s first round votes go in highly populated states like Rio de Janeiro, Pernambuco - Dilma won both in 2010 - and S\u00e3o Paulo that may end up being the decisive factor.Marina Silva has endorsed Neves. Nevertheless the president goes into Sunday\u2019s vote as the favourite, but as the gap from Neves is still so close (and Brazilian polls so volatile), the final debate between contenders may still provide surprises.Before the final I round debate, Marina Silva was set for the runoff vote according to polls, and at one point she was even leading the race. Then figures released on the Saturday - and indeed the result the following day - showed Neves overtaking Silva.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "Brazil election: Dilma Rousseff favourite according to polls"},{"date": "2014-10-20T12:53:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Farmers with smallholdings are not responsible for most of the destruction of Brazil\u2019s Amazon rainforest, but their contribution to deforestation is rising and must be addressed if the country is to hold on to recent gains, according to an environmental research group.Government efforts led to a 77% fall in deforestation in the Amazon between 2004 and 2011, but progress has slowed and deforestation is rising, the Stockholm Environment Institute (SEI) said in a report.The report said that between 2004 and 2011, landowners with more than 500 hectares (1,235 acres) of property were responsible for about 48% of the deforestation. Areas owned by smallholders accounted for 12% of the forests destroyed during the same period.However, since 2005, the contribution to annual deforestation by the largest landowners has fallen by 63%, while that of smallholders has increased by 69%, the report said.\u201cDespite the gains made to stem deforestation from 2004 onwards \u2026 the outlook today is not all positive,\u201d said Javier Godar, a research fellow at SEI and lead author of the study.In 2013, deforestation increased by 28% compared with the previous year.Godar said part of the reason for the rise was that many conservation areas had been scaled down or had their protection status changed, and flagship public-private initiatives, such as a moratorium on trading soya beans from newly deforested areas in the Amazon, were about to end.A boom in infrastructure projects in the Amazon since 2009, including the building of new roads and dams, may also be contributing to Brazil\u2019s rising deforestation rates, Godar said.Forest cut down for timber and turned into pasture for livestock grazing, along with soya and palm oil production, are putting pressure on the Amazon as Brazil seeks to maintain its position as the world\u2019s second-largest producer of soya beans and a leading exporter of food.\u201cDeforestation is spreading to more remote and unpopulated areas of the Amazon, where there is a weaker government presence, which shows that the agricultural frontier is still expanding and new areas are being opened up,\u201d said Godar.\u201cFurther reductions in deforestation in the Amazon are challenging, because deforestation is happening in smaller and more remote areas, and is therefore harder to detect and more expensive to control,\u201d he said.Policies to end deforestation are essential for the curbing of climate change, according to experts. But if Brazil is to cut deforestation beyond current rates, new initiatives that target small farmers are needed, the study said.It recommended schemes that would provide credit to Brazil\u2019s 6 million small landowners living in rural areas in the Amazon and promote more efficient farming techniques among small farmers and large landowners.\u201cTargeting smallholders with the same punitive measures used for large landowners, when they have far fewer resources, would be too costly and arguably not socially or politically acceptable,\u201d Godar said.\u201cThey have deforested far less than the large landowners to date \u2026 [They] hold more forested areas and their forests are, on average, in better condition, so it\u2019s important to help them to preserve those forests, rather than point the finger at them.\u201dThe UN-backed scheme Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD+), which provides financial incentives to developing countries to protect their forests, is hailed as a key initiative in the battle against the destruction of rainforests worldwide.But it has so far been \u201can experimental pilot project\u201d, Godar said, adding: \u201cAt current funding levels, the benefits of REDD+ are only likely to reach thousands of farmers, a tiny percentage of the total rural population who live in the Brazilian Amazon.\u201dGodar said he did not expect environmental issues to be a priority in Brazil before the presidential election runoff between Dilma Rousseff, the incumbent, and rival A\u00e9cio Neves on 26 October.\u201cThe main issue in the coming election, regardless of the party that will win it, is Brazil\u2019s economy, which has been in stagnation since 2011,\u201d Godar said.\u201cBoth individuals and the private sector are in debt \u2026 and so environmental issues aren\u2019t at the forefront of the candidates\u2019 or most voters\u2019 concerns.\u201d", "tags": ["Natural resources and development", "Global development", "Deforestation", "Conservation", "Trees and forests", "Amazon rainforest", "Environment", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil must target smallholders to curb\u00a0rising deforestation"},{"date": "2014-10-16T10:22:23Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "In September 2013, Santander Brazil, Brazil\u2019s third largest privately owned bank with more than 28 million customers, joined the Business Call to Action with an initiative designed to scale-up its microcredit offerings and financial education services for micro-entrepreneurs. In this video, Carlos Nomoto, Santander Brazil\u2019s director of sustainability shares the insights about the inspiration behind the initiative and company\u2019s commitment to inclusive business. Launched at the United Nations, the Business Call to Action is a global alliance hosted by the United Nations Development Programme Headquarters in New York. Follow: @BCtAInitiativeCopy on this page is provided by Business Call to Action, supporter of the role of business in development hub", "tags": ["business call to action partner zone"], "title": "Q&A: Santander Brazil on inclusive financial services - video"},{"date": "2014-10-09T11:00:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": " With help from the Rainforest Alliance, a brave young Costa Rican tree frog is traveling around the world to make new friends and find out what humans are doing to help save her home. This is the third in a series of five weekly dispatches about her experiences.Marcelo de Souza stands like a commander surveying the kitchen of his popular restaurant in Vila Madalena, a trendy quarter of S\u00e3o Paulo. The farm-to-table movement is catching fire, and with his own greenhouse, street-side herb garden, and steady supply of grass-fed beef shipped in from just outside the city, Chef Marcelo is poised to transform the way this city eats. He barks at his sous chefs, then turns his intimidating gaze to the restaurant manager. I listen to his outburst while nestled deep in his jacket pocket. He\u2019s just learned that the new manager, hoping to save a few centavos, changed the restaurant\u2019s latest order of grass-fed beef to conventional beef. Soon Marcelo is out the door headed to the supplier to straighten things out. But as he passes the neighborhood\u2019s organic farmers\u2019 market, one of only a handful in this city of 12 million, he can\u2019t resist stopping. \u201cChef\u00e3o!\u201d a vendor cries. \u201cYou must try this!\u201d A spoonful of Amazonian honey sends Marcelo into a reverie. Leaping from his pocket to the table to catch a drop of honey, I point to the price tag. Marcelo balks. The vendor explains that deforestation caused by the huge increase in grass-fed beef has reduced honeybee populations, making it harder for beekeepers to earn a living. \u201cForty-thousand square miles of rainforest cleared for cattle grazing?! Fala s\u00e9rio?\u201d he asks. The man nods grimly. \u201cIt\u2019s true. Grass-fed cattle ranches may produce better quality than feedlots, but for us they have been a curse. Fortunately, you can find certified cattle farms that raise grass-fed beef sustainably,\u201d the vendor says, handing him a brochure and pointing to a booth down the street. \u201cHmm. More trees, cleaner operations, and lower greenhouse emissions? I\u2019ll check it out.\u201d I jump back in his pocket, ready for our next stop. My afternoon pocket nap will have to wait.Content on this page is provided by the Rainforest Alliance, supporter of the Vital Signs platform.More from the Frog Diaries series: ", "tags": ["Rainforest Alliance partner zone"], "title": "Frog diaries: explore Brazil with the Rainforest Alliance frog"},{"date": "2014-12-16T08:00:13Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "By the Great Bend of the Xingu river in the depths of Amazonia, the Juruna tribe is being drowned by what seems at first sight to be a flood of TV game-show prizes.There\u2019s a shiny new motorboat moored by the old canoe, the latest four-wheel drive parked beside a chicken coop, satellite dishes outside every home and wide-screen plasma TVs inside. But these are not the spoils of victory. They are the consolations for defeat in an existential battle against Brazil\u2019s biggest engineering project, the Belo Monte dam.For three decades, the Juruna have been in the vanguard of the fight against the hydroelectric plant \u2013 the world\u2019s fourth biggest \u2013 which is being built on the edge of their territory in one of the world\u2019s biodiversity hotspots.The community have marched, lobbied, seized hostages, burned buses and taken to their canoes to try to stop the project. But they have failed.Next August, the Xingu river will be closed by a 5km-wide dam. The first turbine will come into operation a few months later.\u201cWhen they close the river, it will be like they are destroying our lives,\u201d says Giliarde Juruna, the chief of a village in the Paqui\u00e7amba indigenous territory. \u201cWe have always lived off the river. This region here is where we\u2019ve lived \u2013 from our ancestors until today. The impact will be huge.\u201dBelo Monte is already an undeniable fact. The vast construction site is like something out of Mordor \u2013 an immense wall of stone, steel and concrete that towers above a blasted plain teeming with trucks, bulldozers and cranes. The turbine housings, which are half-complete, resemble the jagged ramparts of a fort. Here and there by the side of the road, felled trees are tied up in bundles, like captured prisoners. And as night falls, the usual Amazonian chorus of insects, frogs and birds is drowned out by engines, alarms and clanking earth movers.Fleets of trucks are shifting 79.2m cubic metres of earth \u2013 more than that needed for the Panama canal. To supply the rocks for the barrage, Brazil\u2019s largest pebble crusher has been built nearby. There are also several cement factories to mix the 2.1m cubic metres of concrete that will eventually be poured at the project\u2019s three main sites. There is a main 11,233MW hydroelectric plant at Belo Monte that will house 18 turbines, a secondary much smaller 233MW plant at the 7km barrage across the river in Pimental and a deep canal to divert water from one to the other.The complex system of this run-of-the-river dam is designed as a low-impact alternative to conventional narrow dams, which simply block the river and build up a huge reservoir behind the dam. Although Belo Monte will submerge a hefty 478 sq km in its 28-mini reservoirs (in an area that was, until very recently, covered by one the world\u2019s most biodiverse rainforests,) engineers say the ratio of land flooded to power generation is about half that of Brazil\u2019s biggest hydroplant at Itaipu.At great expense, they say they have designed this 25bn reais hydropower facility to avoid the flooding of indigenous territory. The relatively small reservoir and the maintenance of a minimum flow of water on the trunk river means the plant will work on average at barely 40% of its 11,200MW capacity.\u201cIt\u2019s the price we pay to preserve the environment,\u201d said Jaimie Juraszek, the construction superintendent of Norte Energia. \u201cWe cannot save the forest and live in the dark without TV. There is a conflict of interest here. We need balance. I think Belo Monte is a compromise.\u201dThe 20,000 people who will be relocated certainly seems modest compared to the 1.5 million people that China\u2019s government moved for the Three Gorges dam. But, unlike China\u2019s crowded Sichuan province, the problem in sparsely populated Amazonia is not moving people out, but moving them in. The biggest impact of Belo Monte is from the influx of tens of thousands of construction workers, suppliers, security guards, prostitutes and other migrants who have been drawn to the area by the megaproject. Since work started in 2011, the population of the nearest city of Altamira has surged from about 100,000 to more than 150,000. The newcomers require homes, food, water, electricity, oil, roads and boats \u2013 all of which add to the pressure on a local environment that is one of the world\u2019s most important biodiversity hotspots.Forests are being felled in the Altamira region around the construction site at a faster rate than anywhere else in the country. There are conflicts over fishing catches. Endangered species are under increased pressure and indigenous groups are losing their land and traditions.Some tribal leaders privately admit that all they are fighting for now is compensation. They want more land and for the dam operator Norte Energia to fulfill its promise to provide them with schools and clinics.Three years ago, when these were not forthcoming, the government urged the company to launch a two-year \u201cemergency programme\u201d to placate opposition among the Juruna and other indigenous communities.Suddenly, every wish the tribes made was granted up to a budget of 30,000 reais per village per month. Centuries of a subsistence lifestyle gave way to instant gratification in the form of food, laptops, new vehicles, freezers, motorbikes. For the 2011-13 duration of the programme, all they had to do was ask. The result was calamitous for traditional customs, hierarchies and a sense of identity. Villages split to get more money. Residents stopped farming and ordered food from the supermarket. Conservative elders were nudged aside by the young who could speak Portuguese with the company officials. The traditional diet of fish from the river and meat hunted in the forest gave way to barbecued steak and brightly coloured sweets bought at the supermarket. Instead of water from the river, locals drink beer and sweet fizzy drinks. Plastic rubbish is a growing problem.Outside, respect for the communities is being replaced by scorn or pity. Norte Energia officials are privately contemptuous. \u201cIn the old days, you just gave the Indians a mirror and they were happy. Now they want iPads and four-wheel drives,\u201d said one employee.But it is the company and the government that are to blame, according to the federal prosecutor in Altamira, Thais Santi, who reported with horror her visit to another tribe, the Arara at Cachoeira Seca. \u201cThe scene in the village was that of a post-war holocaust with garbage everywhere,\u201d she said in a recent interview. \u201cThe Indians did not move. They just stood there motionless, asking for food, asking to have homes built for them\u2026 They had stopped talking and meeting each other. The only time they met was at night to watch a telenovela on a plasma TV. It was brutal \u2026 The Emergency Plan had created an absolute dependence on the company.\u201d Santi said she is now preparing to bring a lawsuit against Belo Monte for \u201cethnocide against indigenous people\u201d. Government officials privately acknowledge the \u201cEmergency Plan\u201d should have been better planned. Reversing the damage seems impossible. Many villagers want more land and another \u201cemergency program\u201d of cash payments because, they say, the traditional way of life will soon be impossible and modern appliances, like cars and houses, will be no use without water and food.The village chief, Juruna tells us he is planning another protest on canoes to try to secure more territory before the dam is completed. \u201cIf they close the river, we\u2019ll never resolve the land issue so we need to fight to stop them. We\u2019ll do whatever it takes. We\u2019ll go there and block it. The police can kill us. I\u2019d rather die there than give up.\u201dBut even the protests are changing the tribe\u2019s way of life, which is now increasingly taken up by meetings. The endless round of talks with government officials, Norte Energia representatives, NGO activists and journalists takes up so much energy that many say they barely have time to tend the land or go fishing.When they do fish, they say the catches are much lower than in the past because of the blasting and the dust and the extra upstream demand for food for the construction workers. Conservationists say the situation will get worse when the river is closed off. There are several fish, including the acari, that are unique to the Volta Grande (Big Bend) where the hydropower plant is being constructed. Much of this aquatic life is dependent on the rise and fall of the river. Many species reproduce in flood water ponds that will disappear once the dam is built. The fluctuation of the Xingu also affects the temperatures of tributaries, which could effect the tracaja turtle. The gender of this species is determined by whether the sand of the banks is hot (female) or cold (male). Reduced flow on the trunk river will mean lower temperatures and probably a higher proportion of males.It is not only indigenous tribes who are affected. Glio Alvas da Silva has lived on the Xingu for 32 years, but his fishing community of mestizos at S\u00e3o Antonio was one of the first to be disrupted by the project. Before the construction started, he used to spend the night on the river, diving into the depths to catch zebra fish for aquariums, harpooning asas and using wooden traps for pescada. But once the project started, he said the catches started to decline drastically.\u201cI used to take 50kg each night. Now I\u2019m lucky to get 2kg,\u201d he said. Like many former fishermen in the area, he now makes a living breaking rocks for the dam.Despite the many tales of woe, Belo Monte is the precursor for more barrages in Amazonia. The government considers hydropower, which accounts for 77% of Brazil\u2019s energy, as the key to meeting the country\u2019s climate commitments while maintaining economic growth. Many of the most accessible rivers are already tapped so future expansion is expected to come from the Amazon and Cerrado regions. Next year, bidding will start for the next megadam - a 8,000MW plant at S\u00e3o Luiz on the Tapaj\u00f3s river, despite opposition from the Mundruku tribe, whose lands are likely to be partly submerged.Along with President Dilma Rousseff\u2019s championing of oil and agribusiness, such projects are undermining Brazil\u2019s reputation a global leader on the environment. In the most recent edition of Science magazine a group of Brazilian scientists warned there was a growing discrepancy between the positive role played by the country\u2019s diplomats at UN climate talks, and the increasingly destructive direction of legislation and infrastructure projects that do not adequately balance environmental and social costs with the economic benefits.Since 2008, the paper notes that Brazil has lost 44,100 sq km of protected land.\u201cUntil now, unplanned agricultural expansion has been the greatest pressure on the environment, but new pressures are being exerted in response to rising demands for hydropower and mineral resources,\u201d the authors noted. They called for greater investment in solar, wind and biofuels to reduce the destruction this causes.Environmentalists say the Belo Monte case also highlights the importance of preserving indigenous territory which is home to the last good forests in Brazil. But under existing circumstances, the tribes who have long been the staunchest forest guardians are losing land, culture and the will to resist.\u201cBelo Monte is gradually weakening them. It\u2019s very sad to see. We\u2019ve been fighting together for 30 years, but now they are succumbing to drugs, drinking and prostitution,\u201d said Antonio Melo, of the Xingu Vivo anti-dam campaign. \u201cDilma says the dams produce cheap electricity, but the cost is paid here in the destruction of the environment and the destruction of people\u2019s lives.\u201d", "tags": ["Hydropower", "Environment", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Brazil", "Americas", "Amazon rainforest", "Deforestation", "Rivers", "Conservation", "Indigenous peoples", "Trees and forests"], "title": "Belo Monte, Brazil: The tribes living in the shadow of a megadam"},{"date": "2015-03-07T10:37:38Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Tourists have their view of Brazil but what\u2019s your country really like? We\u2019d like you to show us Brazil from your perspective \u2013 the places that visitors to your country don\u2019t often get to see \u2013 and the hidden stories that you think we should be aware of.Share your view of Brazil in photos, videos and words by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app \u2013 just search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 . You can also email guardian.witness@theguardian.com Related: Show us your Brazil: your GuardianWitness contributions We\u2019ll publish the the most interesting contributions on the Guardian site. Turistas t\u00eam sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil, mas como \u00e9 seu pa\u00eds de verdade? N\u00f3s queremos que voc\u00ea nos mostre o Brasil pela sua perspectiva \u2013 os lugares que os turistas n\u00e3o costumam ver \u2013 e as hist\u00f3rias que voc\u00ea acredita que devam ser de nosso interesse.Compartilhe sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil em fotos, v\u00eddeos e palavras clicando no bot\u00e3o azul \u201cContribute\u201d neste artigo. Voc\u00ea tamb\u00e9m pode usar o aplicativo de smartphone GuardianWitness ou o novo aplicativo do Guardian e procurar por \u201cGuardianWitness assignments\u201d. Ou, voc\u00ea pode nos enviar um email pelo guardian.witness@theguardian.com N\u00f3s publicaremos as contribui\u00e7\u00f5es mais interessantes em nosso site.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Show us your Brazil"},{"date": "2015-03-07T10:37:38Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Tourists have their view of Brazil but what\u2019s your country really like? We\u2019d like you to show us Brazil from your perspective \u2013 the places that visitors to your country don\u2019t often get to see \u2013 and the hidden stories that you think we should be aware of.Share your view of Brazil in photos, videos and words by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app \u2013 just search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 . You can also email guardian.witness@theguardian.com Related: Show us your Brazil: your GuardianWitness contributions We\u2019ll publish the the most interesting contributions on the Guardian site. Turistas t\u00eam sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil, mas como \u00e9 seu pa\u00eds de verdade? N\u00f3s queremos que voc\u00ea nos mostre o Brasil pela sua perspectiva \u2013 os lugares que os turistas n\u00e3o costumam ver \u2013 e as hist\u00f3rias que voc\u00ea acredita que devam ser de nosso interesse.Compartilhe sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil em fotos, v\u00eddeos e palavras clicando no bot\u00e3o azul \u201cContribute\u201d neste artigo. Voc\u00ea tamb\u00e9m pode usar o aplicativo de smartphone GuardianWitness ou o novo aplicativo do Guardian e procurar por \u201cGuardianWitness assignments\u201d. Ou, voc\u00ea pode nos enviar um email pelo guardian.witness@theguardian.com N\u00f3s publicaremos as contribui\u00e7\u00f5es mais interessantes em nosso site.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Show us your Brazil"},{"date": "2015-03-19T16:25:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A million and a half protesters took to the streets in Brazil on Sunday in the biggest popular movement since the pro-election demonstrations in 1984. The mass gathering felt like a joyful celebration of civic rights; it was not organised by any political party, but over the social networks by hundreds of individual groups scattered around Brazil. A new digital democracy was in action once again. No sole issue sparked the protests but surveys revealed that the principal motives were related to anger at corruption; there were demands that President Dilma Rousseff be impeached and protests against the Workers\u2019 Party administration and a congress so impervious to reality that it seems to inhabit a glass dome.On the Friday before the protests, pro-government rallies had been held on a much smaller scale. Even then the government\u2019s supporters protested against the loss of workers\u2019 rights and demanded political reform, as well as an increase in teachers\u2019 salaries. Some placards went as far as calling the president a traitor.Brazil, a historically unequal country, has been slowly reducing the gulf between rich and poor. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva\u2019s election in 2002 led many to believe that this gap would narrow radically. That year, China\u2019s growth led to an increase in commodity prices that lasted until the crisis in 2008. Brazil found itself with a surplus that allowed the new administration to do something never seen in the country before \u2013 cater to both the financial markets that attract foreign capital, and help the poorer sections of society with income distribution programmes and cheap credit. The country went through a euphoric consumerist upheaval. Salaries increased, jobs were abundant, living standards rose. Economic activity was booming and there seemed to be no going back \u2013 we had become part of a virtuous circle. It was the first time in 50 years that I read only good news when I opened the papers in the morning.'This absurd system has been going on for years, but everyone thought that a leftist party would change the picture.'In 2006, the Workers\u2019 party was involved in a scandal regarding the buying of congressmen\u2019s votes, but Lula denied knowing anything about it and was re-elected. The sense of euphoria continued, but in 2008, the financial crisis hit. The president, now in his second term, assured us that it was no big deal \u2013 just a ripple that wouldn\u2019t have any effect on Brazil. Other problems, such as a lack of investment in infrastructure and education, became apparent, but all were minimised so that the party would win the 2010 elections.Rousseff, then largely unknown, was presented to Lula\u2019s supporters and consequently elected. The work of the \u201ccreator\u201d, she was given the epithet of \u201ccreature\u201d, but Lula\u2019s choice made sense. He held complete sway over the new president and took it upon himself to put together a new ministerial cabinet by portioning out favours in exchange for political support in congress. The more votes a party had, the more ministers they could put into office. Historically rightwing antagonists and oligarchies were soon swept up into the Workers\u2019 party partisan base, all done in name of \u201cgovernability\u201d.Methods such as this are now institutionalised in modern Brazil and take place shamelessly, in the open. On first being elected Rousseff endeavoured to continue as before, but commodity prices had fallen, the government\u2019s political machinery had become more expensive and there was no way to make ends meet. Even so, the president did not make the necessary changes to the economy. Her term ended in 2014 with inflation knocking on the door and overpricing allegations against almost all the ongoing infrastructure projects. The country\u2019s growth fell to 0.2%, an energy crisis began taking shape and the middle class was left in debt, with banks demanding the easy money they had lent throughout the previous years. Spring had come and gone.The re-election of the Workers\u2019 party for its fourth term was now a high stakes game. Its presidential campaign paid scant attention to the truth. On TV, the party depicted a Brazil that just did not exist, ignoring all the problems that the country was facing. It devoted much of the debate to personal attacks on the opposition and continued this strategy throughout the campaign, endlessly asserting that its adversaries would increase energy tariffs, cut workers\u2019 benefits and adopt a recessive monetary policy. It amounted to a revival of the old \u201cus\u201d versus \u201cthem\u201d discourse and divided the country as never before. Politics was a topic to be carefully avoided during friendly get-togethers. The marketing strategy worked and Rousseff was re-elected with a slim 3% majority.Upon taking office again in January, the first measures taken by the president were to cut workers\u2019 benefits and increase energy tariffs, doing exactly what she had said her opponents would do if elected. Already without the support of half the population, she has now lost the support of her own constituents, who feel betrayed. A survey released on 18 March found that 62% of the population considers her government bad or very bad. When the going gets rough, everybody runs for shelter. Lula does not want this crisis to jeopardise his return in 2018, and Rousseff has lost support within her own party.The president is now isolated, trying to rein in increasing inflation and a water and energy crisis, as well as dealing with an ongoing investigation into the embezzlement of funds from Petrobras, the largest company in the country. Much of the population believes that the president knew about the scheme to route money from the oil company to finance party activities and to fatten the wallets of a chosen few. And it is this that led 20% of the protesters to demand her impeachment, while the others clamoured for the end of corruption.No one argues that the Workers\u2019 party invented corruption in Brazil. Political campaigns here are financed by companies, mostly construction companies that later demand they be repaid in major construction jobs from those in power. This absurd system has been going on for years, but everyone thought that a leftist party that preached sincerity would be able to change the picture. This did not happen and the populace\u2019s patience has run out, as demonstrated by Sunday\u2019s protests.There is still some good news. Executives from some of the biggest construction companies in Brazil have been jailed for their involvement in the Petrobras case. To have millionaires with full access to government officials in jail is unique in Brazilian history. Plea-bargains with some of these businessmen mean that there is a good chance some of the congressmen involved will be punished. If they get their just deserts it will be the beginning of an anxiously awaited process of political reform. As in all crises, an opportunity is always on the horizon.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil has had enough of broken promises | Fernando Meirelles"},{"date": "2015-03-07T10:37:38Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Tourists have their view of Brazil but what\u2019s your country really like? We\u2019d like you to show us Brazil from your perspective \u2013 the places that visitors to your country don\u2019t often get to see \u2013 and the hidden stories that you think we should be aware of.Share your view of Brazil in photos, videos and words by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app \u2013 just search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 . You can also email guardian.witness@theguardian.com Related: Show us your Brazil: your GuardianWitness contributions We\u2019ll publish the the most interesting contributions on the Guardian site. Turistas t\u00eam sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil, mas como \u00e9 seu pa\u00eds de verdade? N\u00f3s queremos que voc\u00ea nos mostre o Brasil pela sua perspectiva \u2013 os lugares que os turistas n\u00e3o costumam ver \u2013 e as hist\u00f3rias que voc\u00ea acredita que devam ser de nosso interesse.Compartilhe sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil em fotos, v\u00eddeos e palavras clicando no bot\u00e3o azul \u201cContribute\u201d neste artigo. Voc\u00ea tamb\u00e9m pode usar o aplicativo de smartphone GuardianWitness ou o novo aplicativo do Guardian e procurar por \u201cGuardianWitness assignments\u201d. Ou, voc\u00ea pode nos enviar um email pelo guardian.witness@theguardian.com N\u00f3s publicaremos as contribui\u00e7\u00f5es mais interessantes em nosso site.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Show us your Brazil"},{"date": "2015-03-19T16:25:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A million and a half protesters took to the streets in Brazil on Sunday in the biggest popular movement since the pro-election demonstrations in 1984. The mass gathering felt like a joyful celebration of civic rights; it was not organised by any political party, but over the social networks by hundreds of individual groups scattered around Brazil. A new digital democracy was in action once again. No sole issue sparked the protests but surveys revealed that the principal motives were related to anger at corruption; there were demands that President Dilma Rousseff be impeached and protests against the Workers\u2019 Party administration and a congress so impervious to reality that it seems to inhabit a glass dome.On the Friday before the protests, pro-government rallies had been held on a much smaller scale. Even then the government\u2019s supporters protested against the loss of workers\u2019 rights and demanded political reform, as well as an increase in teachers\u2019 salaries. Some placards went as far as calling the president a traitor.Brazil, a historically unequal country, has been slowly reducing the gulf between rich and poor. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva\u2019s election in 2002 led many to believe that this gap would narrow radically. That year, China\u2019s growth led to an increase in commodity prices that lasted until the crisis in 2008. Brazil found itself with a surplus that allowed the new administration to do something never seen in the country before \u2013 cater to both the financial markets that attract foreign capital, and help the poorer sections of society with income distribution programmes and cheap credit. The country went through a euphoric consumerist upheaval. Salaries increased, jobs were abundant, living standards rose. Economic activity was booming and there seemed to be no going back \u2013 we had become part of a virtuous circle. It was the first time in 50 years that I read only good news when I opened the papers in the morning.'This absurd system has been going on for years, but everyone thought that a leftist party would change the picture.'In 2006, the Workers\u2019 party was involved in a scandal regarding the buying of congressmen\u2019s votes, but Lula denied knowing anything about it and was re-elected. The sense of euphoria continued, but in 2008, the financial crisis hit. The president, now in his second term, assured us that it was no big deal \u2013 just a ripple that wouldn\u2019t have any effect on Brazil. Other problems, such as a lack of investment in infrastructure and education, became apparent, but all were minimised so that the party would win the 2010 elections.Rousseff, then largely unknown, was presented to Lula\u2019s supporters and consequently elected. The work of the \u201ccreator\u201d, she was given the epithet of \u201ccreature\u201d, but Lula\u2019s choice made sense. He held complete sway over the new president and took it upon himself to put together a new ministerial cabinet by portioning out favours in exchange for political support in congress. The more votes a party had, the more ministers they could put into office. Historically rightwing antagonists and oligarchies were soon swept up into the Workers\u2019 party partisan base, all done in name of \u201cgovernability\u201d.Methods such as this are now institutionalised in modern Brazil and take place shamelessly, in the open. On first being elected Rousseff endeavoured to continue as before, but commodity prices had fallen, the government\u2019s political machinery had become more expensive and there was no way to make ends meet. Even so, the president did not make the necessary changes to the economy. Her term ended in 2014 with inflation knocking on the door and overpricing allegations against almost all the ongoing infrastructure projects. The country\u2019s growth fell to 0.2%, an energy crisis began taking shape and the middle class was left in debt, with banks demanding the easy money they had lent throughout the previous years. Spring had come and gone.The re-election of the Workers\u2019 party for its fourth term was now a high stakes game. Its presidential campaign paid scant attention to the truth. On TV, the party depicted a Brazil that just did not exist, ignoring all the problems that the country was facing. It devoted much of the debate to personal attacks on the opposition and continued this strategy throughout the campaign, endlessly asserting that its adversaries would increase energy tariffs, cut workers\u2019 benefits and adopt a recessive monetary policy. It amounted to a revival of the old \u201cus\u201d versus \u201cthem\u201d discourse and divided the country as never before. Politics was a topic to be carefully avoided during friendly get-togethers. The marketing strategy worked and Rousseff was re-elected with a slim 3% majority.Upon taking office again in January, the first measures taken by the president were to cut workers\u2019 benefits and increase energy tariffs, doing exactly what she had said her opponents would do if elected. Already without the support of half the population, she has now lost the support of her own constituents, who feel betrayed. A survey released on 18 March found that 62% of the population considers her government bad or very bad. When the going gets rough, everybody runs for shelter. Lula does not want this crisis to jeopardise his return in 2018, and Rousseff has lost support within her own party.The president is now isolated, trying to rein in increasing inflation and a water and energy crisis, as well as dealing with an ongoing investigation into the embezzlement of funds from Petrobras, the largest company in the country. Much of the population believes that the president knew about the scheme to route money from the oil company to finance party activities and to fatten the wallets of a chosen few. And it is this that led 20% of the protesters to demand her impeachment, while the others clamoured for the end of corruption.No one argues that the Workers\u2019 party invented corruption in Brazil. Political campaigns here are financed by companies, mostly construction companies that later demand they be repaid in major construction jobs from those in power. This absurd system has been going on for years, but everyone thought that a leftist party that preached sincerity would be able to change the picture. This did not happen and the populace\u2019s patience has run out, as demonstrated by Sunday\u2019s protests.There is still some good news. Executives from some of the biggest construction companies in Brazil have been jailed for their involvement in the Petrobras case. To have millionaires with full access to government officials in jail is unique in Brazilian history. Plea-bargains with some of these businessmen mean that there is a good chance some of the congressmen involved will be punished. If they get their just deserts it will be the beginning of an anxiously awaited process of political reform. As in all crises, an opportunity is always on the horizon.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil has had enough of broken promises | Fernando Meirelles"},{"date": "2015-02-16T19:17:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Allegations of corruption at the aircraft engine-maker Rolls-Royce spread to Brazil on Monday, adding to the woes of a group that is already involved in a Serious Fraud Office (SFO) investigation into bribery claims in China and Indonesia.The engineering group, which also supplies gas turbines for oil platforms, became embroiled in a long-running bribery case at Petrobras when it was named in court testimony by a former executive of the Brazilian state oil company as having paid bribes.Pedro Barusco, a Petrobras veteran who struck a plea bargain in November and has emerged as one of the investigation\u2019s key informants, told police he personally received at least $200,000 (\u00a3130,000) from Rolls-Royce \u2014 according to court documents reported by the Financial Times.A spokesman for Rolls-Royce said: \u201cWe have not received details of the allegations made in recent press reports, nor have we been approached by the authorities in Brazil.\u201cWe have always been clear that we will not tolerate improper business conduct of any sort and will take all necessary action to ensure compliance, including co-operating with authorities in any country.\u201dThe Brazilian oil company is engulfed in a corruption scandal in which billions of dollars were allegedly paid by companies to win contracts. The FT\u2019s report said that the allegations against Rolls-Royce relate to a $100m contract.Rolls-Royce has been operating in Brazil for around 50 years in sectors that include civil aerospace, marine and energy. The group also deals with the Brazilian armed forces, whose aircraft fleet includes Hercules C130s and helicopters, which are powered by Rolls-Royce engines. The British company has been supplying Petrobras for more than a decade.The latest allegations emerged a week after Rolls-Royce reported its first fall in sales in a decade as it warned its performance in 2015 would be worse than previously feared owing to low oil prices.The Derby-based group had already announced it would cut thousands of jobs. Last week it reported that there was less demand for products in its marine business, which designs ships and supplies equipment for the offshore oil and gas industry. It also reported cutbacks from customers who use its equipment in power generation, construction and mining projects. The allegations in Brazil follow the SFO opening a formal criminal investigation into Rolls-Royce at the end of 2013, after a whistleblower claimed that the jet engine manufacturer had bribed Tommy Suharto, son of Indonesia\u2019s former president General Suharto, with $20m and a blue Rolls-Royce car.The Suharto allegations were made by former Rolls-Royce employee Dick Taylor in a series of online comments. The company is accused of paying bribes in the 1980s and 1990s to persuade the national airline, Garuda, to order Rolls-Royce Trent 700 engines.Lawyers for Suharto said at the time: \u201cHe [Suharto] did not, and has never, received monies or a car from Rolls-Royce and nor did he recommend their engines to Garuda, as alleged.\u201d", "tags": ["Rolls-Royce", "Manufacturing sector", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "UK news", "Business", "Brazil", "World news"], "title": "Rolls-Royce corruption claims spread to Brazil"},{"date": "2015-03-07T10:37:38Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Tourists have their view of Brazil but what\u2019s your country really like? We\u2019d like you to show us Brazil from your perspective \u2013 the places that visitors to your country don\u2019t often get to see \u2013 and the hidden stories that you think we should be aware of.Share your view of Brazil in photos, videos and words by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app \u2013 just search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 . You can also email guardian.witness@theguardian.com Related: Show us your Brazil: your GuardianWitness contributions We\u2019ll publish the the most interesting contributions on the Guardian site. Turistas t\u00eam sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil, mas como \u00e9 seu pa\u00eds de verdade? N\u00f3s queremos que voc\u00ea nos mostre o Brasil pela sua perspectiva \u2013 os lugares que os turistas n\u00e3o costumam ver \u2013 e as hist\u00f3rias que voc\u00ea acredita que devam ser de nosso interesse.Compartilhe sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil em fotos, v\u00eddeos e palavras clicando no bot\u00e3o azul \u201cContribute\u201d neste artigo. Voc\u00ea tamb\u00e9m pode usar o aplicativo de smartphone GuardianWitness ou o novo aplicativo do Guardian e procurar por \u201cGuardianWitness assignments\u201d. Ou, voc\u00ea pode nos enviar um email pelo guardian.witness@theguardian.com N\u00f3s publicaremos as contribui\u00e7\u00f5es mais interessantes em nosso site.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Show us your Brazil"},{"date": "2015-03-19T16:25:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A million and a half protesters took to the streets in Brazil on Sunday in the biggest popular movement since the pro-election demonstrations in 1984. The mass gathering felt like a joyful celebration of civic rights; it was not organised by any political party, but over the social networks by hundreds of individual groups scattered around Brazil. A new digital democracy was in action once again. No sole issue sparked the protests but surveys revealed that the principal motives were related to anger at corruption; there were demands that President Dilma Rousseff be impeached and protests against the Workers\u2019 Party administration and a congress so impervious to reality that it seems to inhabit a glass dome.On the Friday before the protests, pro-government rallies had been held on a much smaller scale. Even then the government\u2019s supporters protested against the loss of workers\u2019 rights and demanded political reform, as well as an increase in teachers\u2019 salaries. Some placards went as far as calling the president a traitor.Brazil, a historically unequal country, has been slowly reducing the gulf between rich and poor. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva\u2019s election in 2002 led many to believe that this gap would narrow radically. That year, China\u2019s growth led to an increase in commodity prices that lasted until the crisis in 2008. Brazil found itself with a surplus that allowed the new administration to do something never seen in the country before \u2013 cater to both the financial markets that attract foreign capital, and help the poorer sections of society with income distribution programmes and cheap credit. The country went through a euphoric consumerist upheaval. Salaries increased, jobs were abundant, living standards rose. Economic activity was booming and there seemed to be no going back \u2013 we had become part of a virtuous circle. It was the first time in 50 years that I read only good news when I opened the papers in the morning.'This absurd system has been going on for years, but everyone thought that a leftist party would change the picture.'In 2006, the Workers\u2019 party was involved in a scandal regarding the buying of congressmen\u2019s votes, but Lula denied knowing anything about it and was re-elected. The sense of euphoria continued, but in 2008, the financial crisis hit. The president, now in his second term, assured us that it was no big deal \u2013 just a ripple that wouldn\u2019t have any effect on Brazil. Other problems, such as a lack of investment in infrastructure and education, became apparent, but all were minimised so that the party would win the 2010 elections.Rousseff, then largely unknown, was presented to Lula\u2019s supporters and consequently elected. The work of the \u201ccreator\u201d, she was given the epithet of \u201ccreature\u201d, but Lula\u2019s choice made sense. He held complete sway over the new president and took it upon himself to put together a new ministerial cabinet by portioning out favours in exchange for political support in congress. The more votes a party had, the more ministers they could put into office. Historically rightwing antagonists and oligarchies were soon swept up into the Workers\u2019 party partisan base, all done in name of \u201cgovernability\u201d.Methods such as this are now institutionalised in modern Brazil and take place shamelessly, in the open. On first being elected Rousseff endeavoured to continue as before, but commodity prices had fallen, the government\u2019s political machinery had become more expensive and there was no way to make ends meet. Even so, the president did not make the necessary changes to the economy. Her term ended in 2014 with inflation knocking on the door and overpricing allegations against almost all the ongoing infrastructure projects. The country\u2019s growth fell to 0.2%, an energy crisis began taking shape and the middle class was left in debt, with banks demanding the easy money they had lent throughout the previous years. Spring had come and gone.The re-election of the Workers\u2019 party for its fourth term was now a high stakes game. Its presidential campaign paid scant attention to the truth. On TV, the party depicted a Brazil that just did not exist, ignoring all the problems that the country was facing. It devoted much of the debate to personal attacks on the opposition and continued this strategy throughout the campaign, endlessly asserting that its adversaries would increase energy tariffs, cut workers\u2019 benefits and adopt a recessive monetary policy. It amounted to a revival of the old \u201cus\u201d versus \u201cthem\u201d discourse and divided the country as never before. Politics was a topic to be carefully avoided during friendly get-togethers. The marketing strategy worked and Rousseff was re-elected with a slim 3% majority.Upon taking office again in January, the first measures taken by the president were to cut workers\u2019 benefits and increase energy tariffs, doing exactly what she had said her opponents would do if elected. Already without the support of half the population, she has now lost the support of her own constituents, who feel betrayed. A survey released on 18 March found that 62% of the population considers her government bad or very bad. When the going gets rough, everybody runs for shelter. Lula does not want this crisis to jeopardise his return in 2018, and Rousseff has lost support within her own party.The president is now isolated, trying to rein in increasing inflation and a water and energy crisis, as well as dealing with an ongoing investigation into the embezzlement of funds from Petrobras, the largest company in the country. Much of the population believes that the president knew about the scheme to route money from the oil company to finance party activities and to fatten the wallets of a chosen few. And it is this that led 20% of the protesters to demand her impeachment, while the others clamoured for the end of corruption.No one argues that the Workers\u2019 party invented corruption in Brazil. Political campaigns here are financed by companies, mostly construction companies that later demand they be repaid in major construction jobs from those in power. This absurd system has been going on for years, but everyone thought that a leftist party that preached sincerity would be able to change the picture. This did not happen and the populace\u2019s patience has run out, as demonstrated by Sunday\u2019s protests.There is still some good news. Executives from some of the biggest construction companies in Brazil have been jailed for their involvement in the Petrobras case. To have millionaires with full access to government officials in jail is unique in Brazilian history. Plea-bargains with some of these businessmen mean that there is a good chance some of the congressmen involved will be punished. If they get their just deserts it will be the beginning of an anxiously awaited process of political reform. As in all crises, an opportunity is always on the horizon.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil has had enough of broken promises | Fernando Meirelles"},{"date": "2015-02-16T19:17:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Allegations of corruption at the aircraft engine-maker Rolls-Royce spread to Brazil on Monday, adding to the woes of a group that is already involved in a Serious Fraud Office (SFO) investigation into bribery claims in China and Indonesia.The engineering group, which also supplies gas turbines for oil platforms, became embroiled in a long-running bribery case at Petrobras when it was named in court testimony by a former executive of the Brazilian state oil company as having paid bribes.Pedro Barusco, a Petrobras veteran who struck a plea bargain in November and has emerged as one of the investigation\u2019s key informants, told police he personally received at least $200,000 (\u00a3130,000) from Rolls-Royce \u2014 according to court documents reported by the Financial Times.A spokesman for Rolls-Royce said: \u201cWe have not received details of the allegations made in recent press reports, nor have we been approached by the authorities in Brazil.\u201cWe have always been clear that we will not tolerate improper business conduct of any sort and will take all necessary action to ensure compliance, including co-operating with authorities in any country.\u201dThe Brazilian oil company is engulfed in a corruption scandal in which billions of dollars were allegedly paid by companies to win contracts. The FT\u2019s report said that the allegations against Rolls-Royce relate to a $100m contract.Rolls-Royce has been operating in Brazil for around 50 years in sectors that include civil aerospace, marine and energy. The group also deals with the Brazilian armed forces, whose aircraft fleet includes Hercules C130s and helicopters, which are powered by Rolls-Royce engines. The British company has been supplying Petrobras for more than a decade.The latest allegations emerged a week after Rolls-Royce reported its first fall in sales in a decade as it warned its performance in 2015 would be worse than previously feared owing to low oil prices.The Derby-based group had already announced it would cut thousands of jobs. Last week it reported that there was less demand for products in its marine business, which designs ships and supplies equipment for the offshore oil and gas industry. It also reported cutbacks from customers who use its equipment in power generation, construction and mining projects. The allegations in Brazil follow the SFO opening a formal criminal investigation into Rolls-Royce at the end of 2013, after a whistleblower claimed that the jet engine manufacturer had bribed Tommy Suharto, son of Indonesia\u2019s former president General Suharto, with $20m and a blue Rolls-Royce car.The Suharto allegations were made by former Rolls-Royce employee Dick Taylor in a series of online comments. The company is accused of paying bribes in the 1980s and 1990s to persuade the national airline, Garuda, to order Rolls-Royce Trent 700 engines.Lawyers for Suharto said at the time: \u201cHe [Suharto] did not, and has never, received monies or a car from Rolls-Royce and nor did he recommend their engines to Garuda, as alleged.\u201d", "tags": ["Rolls-Royce", "Manufacturing sector", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "UK news", "Business", "Brazil", "World news"], "title": "Rolls-Royce corruption claims spread to Brazil"},{"date": "2015-03-15T17:41:42Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "More than half a million Brazilians took to the streets on Sunday to protest against corruption, demand the impeachment of President Dilma Rousseff and, in some cases, to call for a military coup.The rightwing demonstration comes amid growing frustration at the moribund economy, political constipation and a huge bribery scandal at the state-run oil company, Petrobras.Singing the national anthem, waving flags and chanting \u201cFora Dilma\u201d (\u201cDilma out\u201d), between 10 and 20 thousand predominantly white, middle class people marched along the seafront at Copacabana to insist on a change of government barely five months after Rousseff was re-elected. Related: Dilma Rousseff pledges unity after narrow Brazil election victory Police estimated the crowd in Rio de Janeiro at 25,000. In the centre of S\u00e3o Paulo, ten times that number joined a rally on Avenida Paulista, according to the Datafolha polling agency. In the capital, Brasilia, 40,000 rallied in front of Congress. In both Belo Horizonte and Belem, about 20,000 people joined the anti-government demonstrations . Another 40,000 were reported on the streets in Ribeir\u00e3o Preto in S\u00e3o Paulo state and 100,000 in Porto Alegre. Altogether demonstrations took place in more than 60 cities, also including Recife, Salvador, Manaus and Fortaleza with the overall turnout likely to exceed 500,000. Local media and police reported a total of more than a million people, though their figures were based on a four-times higher estimates of the crowd in S\u00e3o Paulo.In Rio, many wore the canary yellow jerseys of the national football team or bore banners declaring outrage at a range of perceived national ills and policies that they say have more in common with less stable and more radical leftwing government in Latin America.\u201cBrazil does not want and will not be a new Venezuela,\u201d read one. \u201cNation + Liberty = PT (Workers Party) Out!\u201d declared another.There was a range of voices. While one flag extolled \u201cPeace and Love\u201d, a sizeable contingent of the crowd expressed support for a return to the military dictatorship that ran the country between 1964 and 1985\u201cArmy, Navy and Air Force. Please save us once again of [sic] communism\u201d read one banner in English. Among those holding it was computer graphic designer Marlon Aymes who said military force was the only way to unseat the Workers Party.\u201cThey are in power for 16 years. That is like a dictatorship,\u201d he said. \u201cIn 1964 the military of Brazil took a stand against a president who was close to the Kremlin. Today, the PT is in a group that wants a Bolivarian socialist model across Latin America. Common people are protesting and calling for impeachment, but congress is too corrupt to approve that so we need military intervention.\u201dMore moderate views were expressed by another demonstrator, Henrique Figueirdeo, a 23-year-old student of administration. \u201cI don\u2019t want a return to dictatorship. We need progressive politics and we need democracy. But we also need to tackle corruption and improve efficiency. For that we need a change of government.\u201dRousseff said she supported the protesters\u2019 rights to march and expressed hope that the rallies, which mark the 30th anniversary of the end of military rule, would demonstrate Brazil\u2019s \u201cdemocratic maturity\u201d.Opposition leader A\u00e9cio Neves, who lost by a narrow margin in October, said the protesters \u201cwent to the streets to reunite with their virtues, their values and also with their dreams\u201d.Many expressed support for a more radical rightwing politician, Jair Bolsonaro, who is a military reservist and has defended the dictatorship era. Although he has upset many with homophobic and sexist comments he won more votes in Rio than any other congressman last year.\u201cWe need another president, maybe Bolsonaro. He is close to the armed forces and he is the only one who speaks out,\u201d said Anna Mario Aracejo, an art teacher who was carrying a sign urging the use of armed force to \u201cliberate Brazil from corrupt politicians, parties and traitors of the nation.\u201d Related: Brazil's largest company, Petrobras, accused of political kickbacks Bolsonaro\u2019s son Fl\u00e1vio, also a politician, was embraced by many in the crowd. \u201cThis is a country without options, with high taxes and poor government,\u201d he told the Guardian. \u201cWe don\u2019t want a coup, but the government must respect the constitution.\u201dSome called for more internet freedom and lower taxes. Others complained at the weak economy, which is forecast to sink into recession this year, and the decade-high inflation of 7.7%.Many said they were marching because of the Petrobras scandal, which has seen 57 politicians, including former president Fernando Collor de Mello, investigated for kick-backs worth at least $3bn (\u00a32.03bn). Rousseff is not under investigation but as a former chair of Petrobras during the period when much of the corruption took place, she has struggled to avoid being tainted by a scandal that has implicated allies and opponents alike.Although all the major parties have been dragged into the mire, most of those implicated are from the ruling coalition and the demonstrators were collecting signatures calling for the impeachment of Rousseff.\u201cIt\u2019s unbelievable. They aren\u2019t politicians. They are criminals,\u201d said India Longras, who beat a frying pan painted with \u201cFora Dilma\u201d. \u201cI was born in the military dictatorship. It was a lot better than now. If I had to choose between then and now, I\u2019d choose dictatorship. Education was better, crime was low and the poor lived with dignity.\u201d Calls for a military coup were less evident at the bigger rallies in S\u00e3o Paulo and Brasilia. Sunday\u2019s protests were the biggest in Brazil since 2013, but the profile and politics of the participants were very different and they passed more peacefully. The Confederations Cup demonstrations two years ago had their origins in a campaign to secure free public transport and spread rapidly particularly among the young, via social networks after police violence inflamed public opinion. The latest wave of protests, however, is from an older, whiter, more affluent demographic, following widespread advance coverage by the mainstream media.Anticipating this, the Workers Party organised a rally last Friday in support of the government and state control of Petrobras, but there were less than a thousand people at their main demonstration in central Rio.\u2022 The headline on this article, and a picture caption, were amended on 16 March 2015 to correct misspellings of Rousseff\u2019s name.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil: hundreds of thousands of protesters call for Rousseff impeachment"},{"date": "2015-03-07T10:37:38Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Tourists have their view of Brazil but what\u2019s your country really like? We\u2019d like you to show us Brazil from your perspective \u2013 the places that visitors to your country don\u2019t often get to see \u2013 and the hidden stories that you think we should be aware of.Share your view of Brazil in photos, videos and words by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app \u2013 just search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 . You can also email guardian.witness@theguardian.com Related: Show us your Brazil: your GuardianWitness contributions We\u2019ll publish the the most interesting contributions on the Guardian site. Turistas t\u00eam sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil, mas como \u00e9 seu pa\u00eds de verdade? N\u00f3s queremos que voc\u00ea nos mostre o Brasil pela sua perspectiva \u2013 os lugares que os turistas n\u00e3o costumam ver \u2013 e as hist\u00f3rias que voc\u00ea acredita que devam ser de nosso interesse.Compartilhe sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil em fotos, v\u00eddeos e palavras clicando no bot\u00e3o azul \u201cContribute\u201d neste artigo. Voc\u00ea tamb\u00e9m pode usar o aplicativo de smartphone GuardianWitness ou o novo aplicativo do Guardian e procurar por \u201cGuardianWitness assignments\u201d. Ou, voc\u00ea pode nos enviar um email pelo guardian.witness@theguardian.com N\u00f3s publicaremos as contribui\u00e7\u00f5es mais interessantes em nosso site.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Show us your Brazil"},{"date": "2015-03-19T16:25:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A million and a half protesters took to the streets in Brazil on Sunday in the biggest popular movement since the pro-election demonstrations in 1984. The mass gathering felt like a joyful celebration of civic rights; it was not organised by any political party, but over the social networks by hundreds of individual groups scattered around Brazil. A new digital democracy was in action once again. No sole issue sparked the protests but surveys revealed that the principal motives were related to anger at corruption; there were demands that President Dilma Rousseff be impeached and protests against the Workers\u2019 Party administration and a congress so impervious to reality that it seems to inhabit a glass dome.On the Friday before the protests, pro-government rallies had been held on a much smaller scale. Even then the government\u2019s supporters protested against the loss of workers\u2019 rights and demanded political reform, as well as an increase in teachers\u2019 salaries. Some placards went as far as calling the president a traitor.Brazil, a historically unequal country, has been slowly reducing the gulf between rich and poor. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva\u2019s election in 2002 led many to believe that this gap would narrow radically. That year, China\u2019s growth led to an increase in commodity prices that lasted until the crisis in 2008. Brazil found itself with a surplus that allowed the new administration to do something never seen in the country before \u2013 cater to both the financial markets that attract foreign capital, and help the poorer sections of society with income distribution programmes and cheap credit. The country went through a euphoric consumerist upheaval. Salaries increased, jobs were abundant, living standards rose. Economic activity was booming and there seemed to be no going back \u2013 we had become part of a virtuous circle. It was the first time in 50 years that I read only good news when I opened the papers in the morning.'This absurd system has been going on for years, but everyone thought that a leftist party would change the picture.'In 2006, the Workers\u2019 party was involved in a scandal regarding the buying of congressmen\u2019s votes, but Lula denied knowing anything about it and was re-elected. The sense of euphoria continued, but in 2008, the financial crisis hit. The president, now in his second term, assured us that it was no big deal \u2013 just a ripple that wouldn\u2019t have any effect on Brazil. Other problems, such as a lack of investment in infrastructure and education, became apparent, but all were minimised so that the party would win the 2010 elections.Rousseff, then largely unknown, was presented to Lula\u2019s supporters and consequently elected. The work of the \u201ccreator\u201d, she was given the epithet of \u201ccreature\u201d, but Lula\u2019s choice made sense. He held complete sway over the new president and took it upon himself to put together a new ministerial cabinet by portioning out favours in exchange for political support in congress. The more votes a party had, the more ministers they could put into office. Historically rightwing antagonists and oligarchies were soon swept up into the Workers\u2019 party partisan base, all done in name of \u201cgovernability\u201d.Methods such as this are now institutionalised in modern Brazil and take place shamelessly, in the open. On first being elected Rousseff endeavoured to continue as before, but commodity prices had fallen, the government\u2019s political machinery had become more expensive and there was no way to make ends meet. Even so, the president did not make the necessary changes to the economy. Her term ended in 2014 with inflation knocking on the door and overpricing allegations against almost all the ongoing infrastructure projects. The country\u2019s growth fell to 0.2%, an energy crisis began taking shape and the middle class was left in debt, with banks demanding the easy money they had lent throughout the previous years. Spring had come and gone.The re-election of the Workers\u2019 party for its fourth term was now a high stakes game. Its presidential campaign paid scant attention to the truth. On TV, the party depicted a Brazil that just did not exist, ignoring all the problems that the country was facing. It devoted much of the debate to personal attacks on the opposition and continued this strategy throughout the campaign, endlessly asserting that its adversaries would increase energy tariffs, cut workers\u2019 benefits and adopt a recessive monetary policy. It amounted to a revival of the old \u201cus\u201d versus \u201cthem\u201d discourse and divided the country as never before. Politics was a topic to be carefully avoided during friendly get-togethers. The marketing strategy worked and Rousseff was re-elected with a slim 3% majority.Upon taking office again in January, the first measures taken by the president were to cut workers\u2019 benefits and increase energy tariffs, doing exactly what she had said her opponents would do if elected. Already without the support of half the population, she has now lost the support of her own constituents, who feel betrayed. A survey released on 18 March found that 62% of the population considers her government bad or very bad. When the going gets rough, everybody runs for shelter. Lula does not want this crisis to jeopardise his return in 2018, and Rousseff has lost support within her own party.The president is now isolated, trying to rein in increasing inflation and a water and energy crisis, as well as dealing with an ongoing investigation into the embezzlement of funds from Petrobras, the largest company in the country. Much of the population believes that the president knew about the scheme to route money from the oil company to finance party activities and to fatten the wallets of a chosen few. And it is this that led 20% of the protesters to demand her impeachment, while the others clamoured for the end of corruption.No one argues that the Workers\u2019 party invented corruption in Brazil. Political campaigns here are financed by companies, mostly construction companies that later demand they be repaid in major construction jobs from those in power. This absurd system has been going on for years, but everyone thought that a leftist party that preached sincerity would be able to change the picture. This did not happen and the populace\u2019s patience has run out, as demonstrated by Sunday\u2019s protests.There is still some good news. Executives from some of the biggest construction companies in Brazil have been jailed for their involvement in the Petrobras case. To have millionaires with full access to government officials in jail is unique in Brazilian history. Plea-bargains with some of these businessmen mean that there is a good chance some of the congressmen involved will be punished. If they get their just deserts it will be the beginning of an anxiously awaited process of political reform. As in all crises, an opportunity is always on the horizon.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil has had enough of broken promises | Fernando Meirelles"},{"date": "2015-02-16T19:17:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Allegations of corruption at the aircraft engine-maker Rolls-Royce spread to Brazil on Monday, adding to the woes of a group that is already involved in a Serious Fraud Office (SFO) investigation into bribery claims in China and Indonesia.The engineering group, which also supplies gas turbines for oil platforms, became embroiled in a long-running bribery case at Petrobras when it was named in court testimony by a former executive of the Brazilian state oil company as having paid bribes.Pedro Barusco, a Petrobras veteran who struck a plea bargain in November and has emerged as one of the investigation\u2019s key informants, told police he personally received at least $200,000 (\u00a3130,000) from Rolls-Royce \u2014 according to court documents reported by the Financial Times.A spokesman for Rolls-Royce said: \u201cWe have not received details of the allegations made in recent press reports, nor have we been approached by the authorities in Brazil.\u201cWe have always been clear that we will not tolerate improper business conduct of any sort and will take all necessary action to ensure compliance, including co-operating with authorities in any country.\u201dThe Brazilian oil company is engulfed in a corruption scandal in which billions of dollars were allegedly paid by companies to win contracts. The FT\u2019s report said that the allegations against Rolls-Royce relate to a $100m contract.Rolls-Royce has been operating in Brazil for around 50 years in sectors that include civil aerospace, marine and energy. The group also deals with the Brazilian armed forces, whose aircraft fleet includes Hercules C130s and helicopters, which are powered by Rolls-Royce engines. The British company has been supplying Petrobras for more than a decade.The latest allegations emerged a week after Rolls-Royce reported its first fall in sales in a decade as it warned its performance in 2015 would be worse than previously feared owing to low oil prices.The Derby-based group had already announced it would cut thousands of jobs. Last week it reported that there was less demand for products in its marine business, which designs ships and supplies equipment for the offshore oil and gas industry. It also reported cutbacks from customers who use its equipment in power generation, construction and mining projects. The allegations in Brazil follow the SFO opening a formal criminal investigation into Rolls-Royce at the end of 2013, after a whistleblower claimed that the jet engine manufacturer had bribed Tommy Suharto, son of Indonesia\u2019s former president General Suharto, with $20m and a blue Rolls-Royce car.The Suharto allegations were made by former Rolls-Royce employee Dick Taylor in a series of online comments. The company is accused of paying bribes in the 1980s and 1990s to persuade the national airline, Garuda, to order Rolls-Royce Trent 700 engines.Lawyers for Suharto said at the time: \u201cHe [Suharto] did not, and has never, received monies or a car from Rolls-Royce and nor did he recommend their engines to Garuda, as alleged.\u201d", "tags": ["Rolls-Royce", "Manufacturing sector", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "UK news", "Business", "Brazil", "World news"], "title": "Rolls-Royce corruption claims spread to Brazil"},{"date": "2015-03-15T17:41:42Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "More than half a million Brazilians took to the streets on Sunday to protest against corruption, demand the impeachment of President Dilma Rousseff and, in some cases, to call for a military coup.The rightwing demonstration comes amid growing frustration at the moribund economy, political constipation and a huge bribery scandal at the state-run oil company, Petrobras.Singing the national anthem, waving flags and chanting \u201cFora Dilma\u201d (\u201cDilma out\u201d), between 10 and 20 thousand predominantly white, middle class people marched along the seafront at Copacabana to insist on a change of government barely five months after Rousseff was re-elected. Related: Dilma Rousseff pledges unity after narrow Brazil election victory Police estimated the crowd in Rio de Janeiro at 25,000. In the centre of S\u00e3o Paulo, ten times that number joined a rally on Avenida Paulista, according to the Datafolha polling agency. In the capital, Brasilia, 40,000 rallied in front of Congress. In both Belo Horizonte and Belem, about 20,000 people joined the anti-government demonstrations . Another 40,000 were reported on the streets in Ribeir\u00e3o Preto in S\u00e3o Paulo state and 100,000 in Porto Alegre. Altogether demonstrations took place in more than 60 cities, also including Recife, Salvador, Manaus and Fortaleza with the overall turnout likely to exceed 500,000. Local media and police reported a total of more than a million people, though their figures were based on a four-times higher estimates of the crowd in S\u00e3o Paulo.In Rio, many wore the canary yellow jerseys of the national football team or bore banners declaring outrage at a range of perceived national ills and policies that they say have more in common with less stable and more radical leftwing government in Latin America.\u201cBrazil does not want and will not be a new Venezuela,\u201d read one. \u201cNation + Liberty = PT (Workers Party) Out!\u201d declared another.There was a range of voices. While one flag extolled \u201cPeace and Love\u201d, a sizeable contingent of the crowd expressed support for a return to the military dictatorship that ran the country between 1964 and 1985\u201cArmy, Navy and Air Force. Please save us once again of [sic] communism\u201d read one banner in English. Among those holding it was computer graphic designer Marlon Aymes who said military force was the only way to unseat the Workers Party.\u201cThey are in power for 16 years. That is like a dictatorship,\u201d he said. \u201cIn 1964 the military of Brazil took a stand against a president who was close to the Kremlin. Today, the PT is in a group that wants a Bolivarian socialist model across Latin America. Common people are protesting and calling for impeachment, but congress is too corrupt to approve that so we need military intervention.\u201dMore moderate views were expressed by another demonstrator, Henrique Figueirdeo, a 23-year-old student of administration. \u201cI don\u2019t want a return to dictatorship. We need progressive politics and we need democracy. But we also need to tackle corruption and improve efficiency. For that we need a change of government.\u201dRousseff said she supported the protesters\u2019 rights to march and expressed hope that the rallies, which mark the 30th anniversary of the end of military rule, would demonstrate Brazil\u2019s \u201cdemocratic maturity\u201d.Opposition leader A\u00e9cio Neves, who lost by a narrow margin in October, said the protesters \u201cwent to the streets to reunite with their virtues, their values and also with their dreams\u201d.Many expressed support for a more radical rightwing politician, Jair Bolsonaro, who is a military reservist and has defended the dictatorship era. Although he has upset many with homophobic and sexist comments he won more votes in Rio than any other congressman last year.\u201cWe need another president, maybe Bolsonaro. He is close to the armed forces and he is the only one who speaks out,\u201d said Anna Mario Aracejo, an art teacher who was carrying a sign urging the use of armed force to \u201cliberate Brazil from corrupt politicians, parties and traitors of the nation.\u201d Related: Brazil's largest company, Petrobras, accused of political kickbacks Bolsonaro\u2019s son Fl\u00e1vio, also a politician, was embraced by many in the crowd. \u201cThis is a country without options, with high taxes and poor government,\u201d he told the Guardian. \u201cWe don\u2019t want a coup, but the government must respect the constitution.\u201dSome called for more internet freedom and lower taxes. Others complained at the weak economy, which is forecast to sink into recession this year, and the decade-high inflation of 7.7%.Many said they were marching because of the Petrobras scandal, which has seen 57 politicians, including former president Fernando Collor de Mello, investigated for kick-backs worth at least $3bn (\u00a32.03bn). Rousseff is not under investigation but as a former chair of Petrobras during the period when much of the corruption took place, she has struggled to avoid being tainted by a scandal that has implicated allies and opponents alike.Although all the major parties have been dragged into the mire, most of those implicated are from the ruling coalition and the demonstrators were collecting signatures calling for the impeachment of Rousseff.\u201cIt\u2019s unbelievable. They aren\u2019t politicians. They are criminals,\u201d said India Longras, who beat a frying pan painted with \u201cFora Dilma\u201d. \u201cI was born in the military dictatorship. It was a lot better than now. If I had to choose between then and now, I\u2019d choose dictatorship. Education was better, crime was low and the poor lived with dignity.\u201d Calls for a military coup were less evident at the bigger rallies in S\u00e3o Paulo and Brasilia. Sunday\u2019s protests were the biggest in Brazil since 2013, but the profile and politics of the participants were very different and they passed more peacefully. The Confederations Cup demonstrations two years ago had their origins in a campaign to secure free public transport and spread rapidly particularly among the young, via social networks after police violence inflamed public opinion. The latest wave of protests, however, is from an older, whiter, more affluent demographic, following widespread advance coverage by the mainstream media.Anticipating this, the Workers Party organised a rally last Friday in support of the government and state control of Petrobras, but there were less than a thousand people at their main demonstration in central Rio.\u2022 The headline on this article, and a picture caption, were amended on 16 March 2015 to correct misspellings of Rousseff\u2019s name.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil: hundreds of thousands of protesters call for Rousseff impeachment"},{"date": "2015-03-06T12:25:37Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The more you look at Brazil\u2019s fundamentals, the more shaky the country looks. And we are not talking about the defensive prowess of David Luiz here. It is the country\u2019s economic backline that risks tumbling down like a set of dominoes.When a Latin American economy is in trouble a good place to start is its inflation rate. Brazil\u2019s is today running at 7.5%. While this is nowhere near the 2,000-3,000% of the early 1990s, when the price of everything went up several times a week, it is far higher than the central bank\u2019s mid-point target of 4.5%. On Wednesday, in an effort to bring inflation down, Brazil\u2019s central bank raised interest rates to 12.75%, a six-year high.The problem is that the country is hiking interest rates \u2013 and trying to curb high prices \u2013 at a time in which its economy is on the brink of recession.Between 2002 and 2008, Brazil\u2019s economy expanded at 4% a year. It has since averaged less than 2%. GDP is expected to contract 0.5% this year.High inflation makes matters worse in at least two ways. First, high prices hinder shoppers\u2019 purchasing power. The Economist calculates that about half of the country\u2019s growth over the past decade was driven by consumption.A drop in purchases will not only dampen economic prospects but would lead to a recession that would freeze the pay of millions because the minimum wage is linked to GDP and inflation.Elsewhere, salaries in both the public and private sector have grown above GDP for the past decade and are now unlikely to keep pace with inflation. Tax hikes and fare rises will not help either.It is therefore not surprising that consumer confidence is at its lowest since records began in 2005.Second, next to rising prices, the real is sinking. Despite the rate increase, Brazil\u2019s currency hit R$3 to the US dollar on Wednesday for the first time in more than a decade. This puts further pressure on prices: the cost of imported goods goes up \u2013 more bad news for shoppers.The foreign outlook isn\u2019t much rosierAcross the Atlantic, many proponents of a Greek exit from the euro argue that the reintroduction of a domestic currency would allow for devaluation \u2013 and this in turn would boost exports. It\u2019s economics 101, they say. Under textbook circumstances it would be safe to assume that, broadly speaking, a weak currency does indeed aid exports.Things are a little more complicated in a global economy. According to The Economist, nearly half of Brazil\u2019s exports are bought by five countries \u2014 China, the US, Argentina, the Netherlands and Germany - and average GDP growth in these countries has now halved compared to 10 years ago.Government subsidies are less sustainableOne problem that Brazil increasingly shares with many EU countries is debt. Brazil holds nearly $250bn worth of dollar-denominated debt, up from $100bn just five years ago. A weak real means that the debt-pile is getting more burdensome. Around $40bn of it is due this year alone.Officially, Brazil\u2019s direct public debt is around 65% of GDP - the highest among Bric nations. However, according to the credit ratings agency Moody\u2019s, once indirect debt is factored in, the figure reaches 100%. This is due to guarantees for state-owned companies.In the first two months of this year, 27 Brazilian companies suffered a rating downgrade. There were zero upgrades. Unable to borrow from private markets, companies need government funding.However, Brazil\u2019s own sovereign credit rating is only a notch above junk, which combined with a weak real, means that borrowing is costly \u2013 and getting more so by the day. Spending on interest payments, which amounts to roughly 6% of Brazil\u2019s GDP, already increased 25% last year compared to 2013. Ten-year bond yields are at 13% \u2013 the same level as sanction-hit Russia.In order to finance companies and banks, the government and government-bank entities often lend at a loss. As debt increases, and with interest rates so high, this system of state subsidies becomes more difficult to sustain. No company better exemplifies the direness of affairs than Petrobras, the state-controlled energy giant. Mired in a corruption scandal, which has engulfed both company executives and high-profile politicians, the company accounts have been frozen and its credit-rating lowered to junk.Petrobras is Brazil\u2019s largest investor, accounting for more than 10% of the country\u2019s investments and employing tens of thousands of people. Even President Dilma Rousseff has gone as far as acknowledging that the scandal may change the country forever.Rationing brought Lula to power, it may topple RousseffAlthough Brazil is a very different country to what it was in the 1990s \u2013 it has, for example, a significant $360bn in reserves - the conundrum for Rousseff\u2019s government goes beyond a flat economy for a year or two.The worry is that Brazil ends up stuck in a place where both monetary and fiscal levers prove incapable of pulling the country out of the mess it is in. The wheels turn, but nothing moves in the right direction, and the country eventually sinks.One of the main contributing drivers to Brazil\u2019s rising inflation has been a severe drought. The driest months in decades have not only fuelled a sharp rise in food prices, but have led to water shortages that are grinding S\u00e3o Paulo, the country\u2019s most populous region, to a halt.An energy shortage in 2001 led to electricity rationing. In the following year\u2019s elections, the discredited government was swept aside by Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva.It is hard to predict what causes the first domino to fall. Once they start crashing down, however, halting the tumble of one piece after another is even harder. Just ask David Luiz.", "tags": ["Brics", "Economics", "Business", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "The noise from Brazil? An economy on the brink"},{"date": "2015-03-07T10:37:38Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Tourists have their view of Brazil but what\u2019s your country really like? We\u2019d like you to show us Brazil from your perspective \u2013 the places that visitors to your country don\u2019t often get to see \u2013 and the hidden stories that you think we should be aware of.Share your view of Brazil in photos, videos and words by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app \u2013 just search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 . You can also email guardian.witness@theguardian.com Related: Show us your Brazil: your GuardianWitness contributions We\u2019ll publish the the most interesting contributions on the Guardian site. Turistas t\u00eam sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil, mas como \u00e9 seu pa\u00eds de verdade? N\u00f3s queremos que voc\u00ea nos mostre o Brasil pela sua perspectiva \u2013 os lugares que os turistas n\u00e3o costumam ver \u2013 e as hist\u00f3rias que voc\u00ea acredita que devam ser de nosso interesse.Compartilhe sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil em fotos, v\u00eddeos e palavras clicando no bot\u00e3o azul \u201cContribute\u201d neste artigo. Voc\u00ea tamb\u00e9m pode usar o aplicativo de smartphone GuardianWitness ou o novo aplicativo do Guardian e procurar por \u201cGuardianWitness assignments\u201d. Ou, voc\u00ea pode nos enviar um email pelo guardian.witness@theguardian.com N\u00f3s publicaremos as contribui\u00e7\u00f5es mais interessantes em nosso site.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Show us your Brazil"},{"date": "2015-03-19T16:25:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A million and a half protesters took to the streets in Brazil on Sunday in the biggest popular movement since the pro-election demonstrations in 1984. The mass gathering felt like a joyful celebration of civic rights; it was not organised by any political party, but over the social networks by hundreds of individual groups scattered around Brazil. A new digital democracy was in action once again. No sole issue sparked the protests but surveys revealed that the principal motives were related to anger at corruption; there were demands that President Dilma Rousseff be impeached and protests against the Workers\u2019 Party administration and a congress so impervious to reality that it seems to inhabit a glass dome.On the Friday before the protests, pro-government rallies had been held on a much smaller scale. Even then the government\u2019s supporters protested against the loss of workers\u2019 rights and demanded political reform, as well as an increase in teachers\u2019 salaries. Some placards went as far as calling the president a traitor.Brazil, a historically unequal country, has been slowly reducing the gulf between rich and poor. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva\u2019s election in 2002 led many to believe that this gap would narrow radically. That year, China\u2019s growth led to an increase in commodity prices that lasted until the crisis in 2008. Brazil found itself with a surplus that allowed the new administration to do something never seen in the country before \u2013 cater to both the financial markets that attract foreign capital, and help the poorer sections of society with income distribution programmes and cheap credit. The country went through a euphoric consumerist upheaval. Salaries increased, jobs were abundant, living standards rose. Economic activity was booming and there seemed to be no going back \u2013 we had become part of a virtuous circle. It was the first time in 50 years that I read only good news when I opened the papers in the morning.'This absurd system has been going on for years, but everyone thought that a leftist party would change the picture.'In 2006, the Workers\u2019 party was involved in a scandal regarding the buying of congressmen\u2019s votes, but Lula denied knowing anything about it and was re-elected. The sense of euphoria continued, but in 2008, the financial crisis hit. The president, now in his second term, assured us that it was no big deal \u2013 just a ripple that wouldn\u2019t have any effect on Brazil. Other problems, such as a lack of investment in infrastructure and education, became apparent, but all were minimised so that the party would win the 2010 elections.Rousseff, then largely unknown, was presented to Lula\u2019s supporters and consequently elected. The work of the \u201ccreator\u201d, she was given the epithet of \u201ccreature\u201d, but Lula\u2019s choice made sense. He held complete sway over the new president and took it upon himself to put together a new ministerial cabinet by portioning out favours in exchange for political support in congress. The more votes a party had, the more ministers they could put into office. Historically rightwing antagonists and oligarchies were soon swept up into the Workers\u2019 party partisan base, all done in name of \u201cgovernability\u201d.Methods such as this are now institutionalised in modern Brazil and take place shamelessly, in the open. On first being elected Rousseff endeavoured to continue as before, but commodity prices had fallen, the government\u2019s political machinery had become more expensive and there was no way to make ends meet. Even so, the president did not make the necessary changes to the economy. Her term ended in 2014 with inflation knocking on the door and overpricing allegations against almost all the ongoing infrastructure projects. The country\u2019s growth fell to 0.2%, an energy crisis began taking shape and the middle class was left in debt, with banks demanding the easy money they had lent throughout the previous years. Spring had come and gone.The re-election of the Workers\u2019 party for its fourth term was now a high stakes game. Its presidential campaign paid scant attention to the truth. On TV, the party depicted a Brazil that just did not exist, ignoring all the problems that the country was facing. It devoted much of the debate to personal attacks on the opposition and continued this strategy throughout the campaign, endlessly asserting that its adversaries would increase energy tariffs, cut workers\u2019 benefits and adopt a recessive monetary policy. It amounted to a revival of the old \u201cus\u201d versus \u201cthem\u201d discourse and divided the country as never before. Politics was a topic to be carefully avoided during friendly get-togethers. The marketing strategy worked and Rousseff was re-elected with a slim 3% majority.Upon taking office again in January, the first measures taken by the president were to cut workers\u2019 benefits and increase energy tariffs, doing exactly what she had said her opponents would do if elected. Already without the support of half the population, she has now lost the support of her own constituents, who feel betrayed. A survey released on 18 March found that 62% of the population considers her government bad or very bad. When the going gets rough, everybody runs for shelter. Lula does not want this crisis to jeopardise his return in 2018, and Rousseff has lost support within her own party.The president is now isolated, trying to rein in increasing inflation and a water and energy crisis, as well as dealing with an ongoing investigation into the embezzlement of funds from Petrobras, the largest company in the country. Much of the population believes that the president knew about the scheme to route money from the oil company to finance party activities and to fatten the wallets of a chosen few. And it is this that led 20% of the protesters to demand her impeachment, while the others clamoured for the end of corruption.No one argues that the Workers\u2019 party invented corruption in Brazil. Political campaigns here are financed by companies, mostly construction companies that later demand they be repaid in major construction jobs from those in power. This absurd system has been going on for years, but everyone thought that a leftist party that preached sincerity would be able to change the picture. This did not happen and the populace\u2019s patience has run out, as demonstrated by Sunday\u2019s protests.There is still some good news. Executives from some of the biggest construction companies in Brazil have been jailed for their involvement in the Petrobras case. To have millionaires with full access to government officials in jail is unique in Brazilian history. Plea-bargains with some of these businessmen mean that there is a good chance some of the congressmen involved will be punished. If they get their just deserts it will be the beginning of an anxiously awaited process of political reform. As in all crises, an opportunity is always on the horizon.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil has had enough of broken promises | Fernando Meirelles"},{"date": "2015-02-16T19:17:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Allegations of corruption at the aircraft engine-maker Rolls-Royce spread to Brazil on Monday, adding to the woes of a group that is already involved in a Serious Fraud Office (SFO) investigation into bribery claims in China and Indonesia.The engineering group, which also supplies gas turbines for oil platforms, became embroiled in a long-running bribery case at Petrobras when it was named in court testimony by a former executive of the Brazilian state oil company as having paid bribes.Pedro Barusco, a Petrobras veteran who struck a plea bargain in November and has emerged as one of the investigation\u2019s key informants, told police he personally received at least $200,000 (\u00a3130,000) from Rolls-Royce \u2014 according to court documents reported by the Financial Times.A spokesman for Rolls-Royce said: \u201cWe have not received details of the allegations made in recent press reports, nor have we been approached by the authorities in Brazil.\u201cWe have always been clear that we will not tolerate improper business conduct of any sort and will take all necessary action to ensure compliance, including co-operating with authorities in any country.\u201dThe Brazilian oil company is engulfed in a corruption scandal in which billions of dollars were allegedly paid by companies to win contracts. The FT\u2019s report said that the allegations against Rolls-Royce relate to a $100m contract.Rolls-Royce has been operating in Brazil for around 50 years in sectors that include civil aerospace, marine and energy. The group also deals with the Brazilian armed forces, whose aircraft fleet includes Hercules C130s and helicopters, which are powered by Rolls-Royce engines. The British company has been supplying Petrobras for more than a decade.The latest allegations emerged a week after Rolls-Royce reported its first fall in sales in a decade as it warned its performance in 2015 would be worse than previously feared owing to low oil prices.The Derby-based group had already announced it would cut thousands of jobs. Last week it reported that there was less demand for products in its marine business, which designs ships and supplies equipment for the offshore oil and gas industry. It also reported cutbacks from customers who use its equipment in power generation, construction and mining projects. The allegations in Brazil follow the SFO opening a formal criminal investigation into Rolls-Royce at the end of 2013, after a whistleblower claimed that the jet engine manufacturer had bribed Tommy Suharto, son of Indonesia\u2019s former president General Suharto, with $20m and a blue Rolls-Royce car.The Suharto allegations were made by former Rolls-Royce employee Dick Taylor in a series of online comments. The company is accused of paying bribes in the 1980s and 1990s to persuade the national airline, Garuda, to order Rolls-Royce Trent 700 engines.Lawyers for Suharto said at the time: \u201cHe [Suharto] did not, and has never, received monies or a car from Rolls-Royce and nor did he recommend their engines to Garuda, as alleged.\u201d", "tags": ["Rolls-Royce", "Manufacturing sector", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "UK news", "Business", "Brazil", "World news"], "title": "Rolls-Royce corruption claims spread to Brazil"},{"date": "2015-03-15T17:41:42Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "More than half a million Brazilians took to the streets on Sunday to protest against corruption, demand the impeachment of President Dilma Rousseff and, in some cases, to call for a military coup.The rightwing demonstration comes amid growing frustration at the moribund economy, political constipation and a huge bribery scandal at the state-run oil company, Petrobras.Singing the national anthem, waving flags and chanting \u201cFora Dilma\u201d (\u201cDilma out\u201d), between 10 and 20 thousand predominantly white, middle class people marched along the seafront at Copacabana to insist on a change of government barely five months after Rousseff was re-elected. Related: Dilma Rousseff pledges unity after narrow Brazil election victory Police estimated the crowd in Rio de Janeiro at 25,000. In the centre of S\u00e3o Paulo, ten times that number joined a rally on Avenida Paulista, according to the Datafolha polling agency. In the capital, Brasilia, 40,000 rallied in front of Congress. In both Belo Horizonte and Belem, about 20,000 people joined the anti-government demonstrations . Another 40,000 were reported on the streets in Ribeir\u00e3o Preto in S\u00e3o Paulo state and 100,000 in Porto Alegre. Altogether demonstrations took place in more than 60 cities, also including Recife, Salvador, Manaus and Fortaleza with the overall turnout likely to exceed 500,000. Local media and police reported a total of more than a million people, though their figures were based on a four-times higher estimates of the crowd in S\u00e3o Paulo.In Rio, many wore the canary yellow jerseys of the national football team or bore banners declaring outrage at a range of perceived national ills and policies that they say have more in common with less stable and more radical leftwing government in Latin America.\u201cBrazil does not want and will not be a new Venezuela,\u201d read one. \u201cNation + Liberty = PT (Workers Party) Out!\u201d declared another.There was a range of voices. While one flag extolled \u201cPeace and Love\u201d, a sizeable contingent of the crowd expressed support for a return to the military dictatorship that ran the country between 1964 and 1985\u201cArmy, Navy and Air Force. Please save us once again of [sic] communism\u201d read one banner in English. Among those holding it was computer graphic designer Marlon Aymes who said military force was the only way to unseat the Workers Party.\u201cThey are in power for 16 years. That is like a dictatorship,\u201d he said. \u201cIn 1964 the military of Brazil took a stand against a president who was close to the Kremlin. Today, the PT is in a group that wants a Bolivarian socialist model across Latin America. Common people are protesting and calling for impeachment, but congress is too corrupt to approve that so we need military intervention.\u201dMore moderate views were expressed by another demonstrator, Henrique Figueirdeo, a 23-year-old student of administration. \u201cI don\u2019t want a return to dictatorship. We need progressive politics and we need democracy. But we also need to tackle corruption and improve efficiency. For that we need a change of government.\u201dRousseff said she supported the protesters\u2019 rights to march and expressed hope that the rallies, which mark the 30th anniversary of the end of military rule, would demonstrate Brazil\u2019s \u201cdemocratic maturity\u201d.Opposition leader A\u00e9cio Neves, who lost by a narrow margin in October, said the protesters \u201cwent to the streets to reunite with their virtues, their values and also with their dreams\u201d.Many expressed support for a more radical rightwing politician, Jair Bolsonaro, who is a military reservist and has defended the dictatorship era. Although he has upset many with homophobic and sexist comments he won more votes in Rio than any other congressman last year.\u201cWe need another president, maybe Bolsonaro. He is close to the armed forces and he is the only one who speaks out,\u201d said Anna Mario Aracejo, an art teacher who was carrying a sign urging the use of armed force to \u201cliberate Brazil from corrupt politicians, parties and traitors of the nation.\u201d Related: Brazil's largest company, Petrobras, accused of political kickbacks Bolsonaro\u2019s son Fl\u00e1vio, also a politician, was embraced by many in the crowd. \u201cThis is a country without options, with high taxes and poor government,\u201d he told the Guardian. \u201cWe don\u2019t want a coup, but the government must respect the constitution.\u201dSome called for more internet freedom and lower taxes. Others complained at the weak economy, which is forecast to sink into recession this year, and the decade-high inflation of 7.7%.Many said they were marching because of the Petrobras scandal, which has seen 57 politicians, including former president Fernando Collor de Mello, investigated for kick-backs worth at least $3bn (\u00a32.03bn). Rousseff is not under investigation but as a former chair of Petrobras during the period when much of the corruption took place, she has struggled to avoid being tainted by a scandal that has implicated allies and opponents alike.Although all the major parties have been dragged into the mire, most of those implicated are from the ruling coalition and the demonstrators were collecting signatures calling for the impeachment of Rousseff.\u201cIt\u2019s unbelievable. They aren\u2019t politicians. They are criminals,\u201d said India Longras, who beat a frying pan painted with \u201cFora Dilma\u201d. \u201cI was born in the military dictatorship. It was a lot better than now. If I had to choose between then and now, I\u2019d choose dictatorship. Education was better, crime was low and the poor lived with dignity.\u201d Calls for a military coup were less evident at the bigger rallies in S\u00e3o Paulo and Brasilia. Sunday\u2019s protests were the biggest in Brazil since 2013, but the profile and politics of the participants were very different and they passed more peacefully. The Confederations Cup demonstrations two years ago had their origins in a campaign to secure free public transport and spread rapidly particularly among the young, via social networks after police violence inflamed public opinion. The latest wave of protests, however, is from an older, whiter, more affluent demographic, following widespread advance coverage by the mainstream media.Anticipating this, the Workers Party organised a rally last Friday in support of the government and state control of Petrobras, but there were less than a thousand people at their main demonstration in central Rio.\u2022 The headline on this article, and a picture caption, were amended on 16 March 2015 to correct misspellings of Rousseff\u2019s name.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil: hundreds of thousands of protesters call for Rousseff impeachment"},{"date": "2015-03-06T12:25:37Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The more you look at Brazil\u2019s fundamentals, the more shaky the country looks. And we are not talking about the defensive prowess of David Luiz here. It is the country\u2019s economic backline that risks tumbling down like a set of dominoes.When a Latin American economy is in trouble a good place to start is its inflation rate. Brazil\u2019s is today running at 7.5%. While this is nowhere near the 2,000-3,000% of the early 1990s, when the price of everything went up several times a week, it is far higher than the central bank\u2019s mid-point target of 4.5%. On Wednesday, in an effort to bring inflation down, Brazil\u2019s central bank raised interest rates to 12.75%, a six-year high.The problem is that the country is hiking interest rates \u2013 and trying to curb high prices \u2013 at a time in which its economy is on the brink of recession.Between 2002 and 2008, Brazil\u2019s economy expanded at 4% a year. It has since averaged less than 2%. GDP is expected to contract 0.5% this year.High inflation makes matters worse in at least two ways. First, high prices hinder shoppers\u2019 purchasing power. The Economist calculates that about half of the country\u2019s growth over the past decade was driven by consumption.A drop in purchases will not only dampen economic prospects but would lead to a recession that would freeze the pay of millions because the minimum wage is linked to GDP and inflation.Elsewhere, salaries in both the public and private sector have grown above GDP for the past decade and are now unlikely to keep pace with inflation. Tax hikes and fare rises will not help either.It is therefore not surprising that consumer confidence is at its lowest since records began in 2005.Second, next to rising prices, the real is sinking. Despite the rate increase, Brazil\u2019s currency hit R$3 to the US dollar on Wednesday for the first time in more than a decade. This puts further pressure on prices: the cost of imported goods goes up \u2013 more bad news for shoppers.The foreign outlook isn\u2019t much rosierAcross the Atlantic, many proponents of a Greek exit from the euro argue that the reintroduction of a domestic currency would allow for devaluation \u2013 and this in turn would boost exports. It\u2019s economics 101, they say. Under textbook circumstances it would be safe to assume that, broadly speaking, a weak currency does indeed aid exports.Things are a little more complicated in a global economy. According to The Economist, nearly half of Brazil\u2019s exports are bought by five countries \u2014 China, the US, Argentina, the Netherlands and Germany - and average GDP growth in these countries has now halved compared to 10 years ago.Government subsidies are less sustainableOne problem that Brazil increasingly shares with many EU countries is debt. Brazil holds nearly $250bn worth of dollar-denominated debt, up from $100bn just five years ago. A weak real means that the debt-pile is getting more burdensome. Around $40bn of it is due this year alone.Officially, Brazil\u2019s direct public debt is around 65% of GDP - the highest among Bric nations. However, according to the credit ratings agency Moody\u2019s, once indirect debt is factored in, the figure reaches 100%. This is due to guarantees for state-owned companies.In the first two months of this year, 27 Brazilian companies suffered a rating downgrade. There were zero upgrades. Unable to borrow from private markets, companies need government funding.However, Brazil\u2019s own sovereign credit rating is only a notch above junk, which combined with a weak real, means that borrowing is costly \u2013 and getting more so by the day. Spending on interest payments, which amounts to roughly 6% of Brazil\u2019s GDP, already increased 25% last year compared to 2013. Ten-year bond yields are at 13% \u2013 the same level as sanction-hit Russia.In order to finance companies and banks, the government and government-bank entities often lend at a loss. As debt increases, and with interest rates so high, this system of state subsidies becomes more difficult to sustain. No company better exemplifies the direness of affairs than Petrobras, the state-controlled energy giant. Mired in a corruption scandal, which has engulfed both company executives and high-profile politicians, the company accounts have been frozen and its credit-rating lowered to junk.Petrobras is Brazil\u2019s largest investor, accounting for more than 10% of the country\u2019s investments and employing tens of thousands of people. Even President Dilma Rousseff has gone as far as acknowledging that the scandal may change the country forever.Rationing brought Lula to power, it may topple RousseffAlthough Brazil is a very different country to what it was in the 1990s \u2013 it has, for example, a significant $360bn in reserves - the conundrum for Rousseff\u2019s government goes beyond a flat economy for a year or two.The worry is that Brazil ends up stuck in a place where both monetary and fiscal levers prove incapable of pulling the country out of the mess it is in. The wheels turn, but nothing moves in the right direction, and the country eventually sinks.One of the main contributing drivers to Brazil\u2019s rising inflation has been a severe drought. The driest months in decades have not only fuelled a sharp rise in food prices, but have led to water shortages that are grinding S\u00e3o Paulo, the country\u2019s most populous region, to a halt.An energy shortage in 2001 led to electricity rationing. In the following year\u2019s elections, the discredited government was swept aside by Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva.It is hard to predict what causes the first domino to fall. Once they start crashing down, however, halting the tumble of one piece after another is even harder. Just ask David Luiz.", "tags": ["Brics", "Economics", "Business", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "The noise from Brazil? An economy on the brink"},{"date": "2015-02-25T14:13:45Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A major lawsuit filed against McDonald\u2019s in Brazil is seeking to stop the fast food chain from opening any further stores in the country until it amends its working practices.Nine labour organisations, including Brazil\u2019s three largest trade unions, allege that McDonald\u2019s and its franchisee, Arcos Dourados (Golden Arches), have engaged in \u201csocial dumping\u201d \u2013 their term for widespread and systematic labour violations over the past three decades.Among the claims in the suit, filed at an industrial tribunal in Bras\u00edlia, Arcos Dourados stands accused of paying less than the minimum wage, employing underage staff and failing to pay overtime. It also alleges staff were exposed to unsanitary working conditions and obliged to work variable shift patterns, which is prohibited by local labour laws.\u201cMcDonald\u2019s turns a blind eye to Brazilian laws to ensure greater business profit, gaining an unfair advantage for itself over companies that respect the rule of the law,\u201d Moacyr Roberto Tesch Auersvald, president of Contratuh, a tourism and hospitality workers\u2019 union, said in a press conference in S\u00e3o Paulo on Tuesday.\u201cUnless the company immediately proves that it respects our laws and our workers, it should not be allowed to open up new stores in Brazil,\u201d he said. The plaintiffs are also seeking workers\u2019 compensation. Under Brazilian law, the value of the damages could be up to 30% of the company\u2019s revenues in Brazil.Arcos Dourados is the largest McDonald\u2019s franchisee in Latin America. Sales in Brazil are responsible for nearly half of McDonald\u2019s total revenues in Latin America. With 42,000 workers in 850 restaurants across the country, the company is also one of Brazil\u2019s biggest employers.Monica Caroline, 19, was contracted to work at a branch of McDonald\u2019s in a shopping centre in S\u00e3o Paulo under an apprenticeship scheme when she was 14. Part of her job consisted of cleaning meat-mincing machines and lifting heavy weights, activities legally prohibited for under-18s. She was also supposed to earn around R$3.60 ($1.26 per hour), but she said that she never received anything close to the amount she had earned.\u201cIt was my first job and I was really excited about the opportunity, but the experience was terrible,\u201d she said. \u201cI hold McDonald\u2019s responsible. None of the other apprentices I knew were treated as badly.\u201dIn a statement, McDonald\u2019s said that it has not been officially notified of the lawsuit: \u201cHowever, the company reiterates its conviction that its working practices fulfil all rules and legislations in the areas in which it operates. All of the company\u2019s employees are registered in accordance with legislation and receive remuneration and benefits in line with the collective agreements signed with the country\u2019s respective unions.\u201dMcDonald\u2019s has been cited in almost 400 lawsuits in Brazil over the past few years. In 2013, a court in the north-eastern city of Recife fined Arcos Dourados R$7.5m (\u00a31.7m) for obliging staff to work a variable shift pattern and to eat only McDonald\u2019s food during their meal times.Subsequently the company signed a national agreement with the labour ministry, committing itself to abide by Brazilian work laws. Leonardo Mendon\u00e7a, the labour ministry\u2019s chief negotiator in the 2013 deal, said he had received a lot of complaints about the working practices at McDonald\u2019s.\u201cArcos Dourados wanted to implement the same working patterns that McDonald\u2019s uses in the US or the UK,\u201d he said. \u201cBut that is not permitted under Brazilian law. Workers also have families and they should not always have to be at the dispensation of their companies.\u201dThe Washington-based Service Employees International Union (SEIU) is also backing the lawsuit. Jessica Davis, a 26-year-old McDonald\u2019s employee from the US who earns $9.28 an hour, addressed Tuesday\u2019s press conference in S\u00e3o Paulo via video link.\u201cIt\u2019s hard to earn a living and feed two kids with this pay,\u201d she said. \u201cWe need to expose the poor behind the golden logo of a company which is the second-biggest employer in the world.\u201dIn the US, unions are pushing for higher wages and benefits for workers in the fast-food and retail sectors. McDonald\u2019s is under increased pressure to raise wages following the decision by Walmart to increase its minimum pay to $9 an hour.In December 2014, McDonald\u2019s posted its worst monthly US sales decline in more than a decade. Global sales have been in decline since July.", "tags": ["McDonald's", "Business", "Brazil", "Americas", "Food & drink industry"], "title": "McDonald\u2019s discrimination lawsuit seeks to stop chain expanding in Brazil"},{"date": "2015-03-07T10:37:38Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Tourists have their view of Brazil but what\u2019s your country really like? We\u2019d like you to show us Brazil from your perspective \u2013 the places that visitors to your country don\u2019t often get to see \u2013 and the hidden stories that you think we should be aware of.Share your view of Brazil in photos, videos and words by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app \u2013 just search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 . You can also email guardian.witness@theguardian.com Related: Show us your Brazil: your GuardianWitness contributions We\u2019ll publish the the most interesting contributions on the Guardian site. Turistas t\u00eam sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil, mas como \u00e9 seu pa\u00eds de verdade? N\u00f3s queremos que voc\u00ea nos mostre o Brasil pela sua perspectiva \u2013 os lugares que os turistas n\u00e3o costumam ver \u2013 e as hist\u00f3rias que voc\u00ea acredita que devam ser de nosso interesse.Compartilhe sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil em fotos, v\u00eddeos e palavras clicando no bot\u00e3o azul \u201cContribute\u201d neste artigo. Voc\u00ea tamb\u00e9m pode usar o aplicativo de smartphone GuardianWitness ou o novo aplicativo do Guardian e procurar por \u201cGuardianWitness assignments\u201d. Ou, voc\u00ea pode nos enviar um email pelo guardian.witness@theguardian.com N\u00f3s publicaremos as contribui\u00e7\u00f5es mais interessantes em nosso site.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Show us your Brazil"},{"date": "2015-03-19T16:25:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A million and a half protesters took to the streets in Brazil on Sunday in the biggest popular movement since the pro-election demonstrations in 1984. The mass gathering felt like a joyful celebration of civic rights; it was not organised by any political party, but over the social networks by hundreds of individual groups scattered around Brazil. A new digital democracy was in action once again. No sole issue sparked the protests but surveys revealed that the principal motives were related to anger at corruption; there were demands that President Dilma Rousseff be impeached and protests against the Workers\u2019 Party administration and a congress so impervious to reality that it seems to inhabit a glass dome.On the Friday before the protests, pro-government rallies had been held on a much smaller scale. Even then the government\u2019s supporters protested against the loss of workers\u2019 rights and demanded political reform, as well as an increase in teachers\u2019 salaries. Some placards went as far as calling the president a traitor.Brazil, a historically unequal country, has been slowly reducing the gulf between rich and poor. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva\u2019s election in 2002 led many to believe that this gap would narrow radically. That year, China\u2019s growth led to an increase in commodity prices that lasted until the crisis in 2008. Brazil found itself with a surplus that allowed the new administration to do something never seen in the country before \u2013 cater to both the financial markets that attract foreign capital, and help the poorer sections of society with income distribution programmes and cheap credit. The country went through a euphoric consumerist upheaval. Salaries increased, jobs were abundant, living standards rose. Economic activity was booming and there seemed to be no going back \u2013 we had become part of a virtuous circle. It was the first time in 50 years that I read only good news when I opened the papers in the morning.'This absurd system has been going on for years, but everyone thought that a leftist party would change the picture.'In 2006, the Workers\u2019 party was involved in a scandal regarding the buying of congressmen\u2019s votes, but Lula denied knowing anything about it and was re-elected. The sense of euphoria continued, but in 2008, the financial crisis hit. The president, now in his second term, assured us that it was no big deal \u2013 just a ripple that wouldn\u2019t have any effect on Brazil. Other problems, such as a lack of investment in infrastructure and education, became apparent, but all were minimised so that the party would win the 2010 elections.Rousseff, then largely unknown, was presented to Lula\u2019s supporters and consequently elected. The work of the \u201ccreator\u201d, she was given the epithet of \u201ccreature\u201d, but Lula\u2019s choice made sense. He held complete sway over the new president and took it upon himself to put together a new ministerial cabinet by portioning out favours in exchange for political support in congress. The more votes a party had, the more ministers they could put into office. Historically rightwing antagonists and oligarchies were soon swept up into the Workers\u2019 party partisan base, all done in name of \u201cgovernability\u201d.Methods such as this are now institutionalised in modern Brazil and take place shamelessly, in the open. On first being elected Rousseff endeavoured to continue as before, but commodity prices had fallen, the government\u2019s political machinery had become more expensive and there was no way to make ends meet. Even so, the president did not make the necessary changes to the economy. Her term ended in 2014 with inflation knocking on the door and overpricing allegations against almost all the ongoing infrastructure projects. The country\u2019s growth fell to 0.2%, an energy crisis began taking shape and the middle class was left in debt, with banks demanding the easy money they had lent throughout the previous years. Spring had come and gone.The re-election of the Workers\u2019 party for its fourth term was now a high stakes game. Its presidential campaign paid scant attention to the truth. On TV, the party depicted a Brazil that just did not exist, ignoring all the problems that the country was facing. It devoted much of the debate to personal attacks on the opposition and continued this strategy throughout the campaign, endlessly asserting that its adversaries would increase energy tariffs, cut workers\u2019 benefits and adopt a recessive monetary policy. It amounted to a revival of the old \u201cus\u201d versus \u201cthem\u201d discourse and divided the country as never before. Politics was a topic to be carefully avoided during friendly get-togethers. The marketing strategy worked and Rousseff was re-elected with a slim 3% majority.Upon taking office again in January, the first measures taken by the president were to cut workers\u2019 benefits and increase energy tariffs, doing exactly what she had said her opponents would do if elected. Already without the support of half the population, she has now lost the support of her own constituents, who feel betrayed. A survey released on 18 March found that 62% of the population considers her government bad or very bad. When the going gets rough, everybody runs for shelter. Lula does not want this crisis to jeopardise his return in 2018, and Rousseff has lost support within her own party.The president is now isolated, trying to rein in increasing inflation and a water and energy crisis, as well as dealing with an ongoing investigation into the embezzlement of funds from Petrobras, the largest company in the country. Much of the population believes that the president knew about the scheme to route money from the oil company to finance party activities and to fatten the wallets of a chosen few. And it is this that led 20% of the protesters to demand her impeachment, while the others clamoured for the end of corruption.No one argues that the Workers\u2019 party invented corruption in Brazil. Political campaigns here are financed by companies, mostly construction companies that later demand they be repaid in major construction jobs from those in power. This absurd system has been going on for years, but everyone thought that a leftist party that preached sincerity would be able to change the picture. This did not happen and the populace\u2019s patience has run out, as demonstrated by Sunday\u2019s protests.There is still some good news. Executives from some of the biggest construction companies in Brazil have been jailed for their involvement in the Petrobras case. To have millionaires with full access to government officials in jail is unique in Brazilian history. Plea-bargains with some of these businessmen mean that there is a good chance some of the congressmen involved will be punished. If they get their just deserts it will be the beginning of an anxiously awaited process of political reform. As in all crises, an opportunity is always on the horizon.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil has had enough of broken promises | Fernando Meirelles"},{"date": "2015-02-16T19:17:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Allegations of corruption at the aircraft engine-maker Rolls-Royce spread to Brazil on Monday, adding to the woes of a group that is already involved in a Serious Fraud Office (SFO) investigation into bribery claims in China and Indonesia.The engineering group, which also supplies gas turbines for oil platforms, became embroiled in a long-running bribery case at Petrobras when it was named in court testimony by a former executive of the Brazilian state oil company as having paid bribes.Pedro Barusco, a Petrobras veteran who struck a plea bargain in November and has emerged as one of the investigation\u2019s key informants, told police he personally received at least $200,000 (\u00a3130,000) from Rolls-Royce \u2014 according to court documents reported by the Financial Times.A spokesman for Rolls-Royce said: \u201cWe have not received details of the allegations made in recent press reports, nor have we been approached by the authorities in Brazil.\u201cWe have always been clear that we will not tolerate improper business conduct of any sort and will take all necessary action to ensure compliance, including co-operating with authorities in any country.\u201dThe Brazilian oil company is engulfed in a corruption scandal in which billions of dollars were allegedly paid by companies to win contracts. The FT\u2019s report said that the allegations against Rolls-Royce relate to a $100m contract.Rolls-Royce has been operating in Brazil for around 50 years in sectors that include civil aerospace, marine and energy. The group also deals with the Brazilian armed forces, whose aircraft fleet includes Hercules C130s and helicopters, which are powered by Rolls-Royce engines. The British company has been supplying Petrobras for more than a decade.The latest allegations emerged a week after Rolls-Royce reported its first fall in sales in a decade as it warned its performance in 2015 would be worse than previously feared owing to low oil prices.The Derby-based group had already announced it would cut thousands of jobs. Last week it reported that there was less demand for products in its marine business, which designs ships and supplies equipment for the offshore oil and gas industry. It also reported cutbacks from customers who use its equipment in power generation, construction and mining projects. The allegations in Brazil follow the SFO opening a formal criminal investigation into Rolls-Royce at the end of 2013, after a whistleblower claimed that the jet engine manufacturer had bribed Tommy Suharto, son of Indonesia\u2019s former president General Suharto, with $20m and a blue Rolls-Royce car.The Suharto allegations were made by former Rolls-Royce employee Dick Taylor in a series of online comments. The company is accused of paying bribes in the 1980s and 1990s to persuade the national airline, Garuda, to order Rolls-Royce Trent 700 engines.Lawyers for Suharto said at the time: \u201cHe [Suharto] did not, and has never, received monies or a car from Rolls-Royce and nor did he recommend their engines to Garuda, as alleged.\u201d", "tags": ["Rolls-Royce", "Manufacturing sector", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "UK news", "Business", "Brazil", "World news"], "title": "Rolls-Royce corruption claims spread to Brazil"},{"date": "2015-03-15T17:41:42Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "More than half a million Brazilians took to the streets on Sunday to protest against corruption, demand the impeachment of President Dilma Rousseff and, in some cases, to call for a military coup.The rightwing demonstration comes amid growing frustration at the moribund economy, political constipation and a huge bribery scandal at the state-run oil company, Petrobras.Singing the national anthem, waving flags and chanting \u201cFora Dilma\u201d (\u201cDilma out\u201d), between 10 and 20 thousand predominantly white, middle class people marched along the seafront at Copacabana to insist on a change of government barely five months after Rousseff was re-elected. Related: Dilma Rousseff pledges unity after narrow Brazil election victory Police estimated the crowd in Rio de Janeiro at 25,000. In the centre of S\u00e3o Paulo, ten times that number joined a rally on Avenida Paulista, according to the Datafolha polling agency. In the capital, Brasilia, 40,000 rallied in front of Congress. In both Belo Horizonte and Belem, about 20,000 people joined the anti-government demonstrations . Another 40,000 were reported on the streets in Ribeir\u00e3o Preto in S\u00e3o Paulo state and 100,000 in Porto Alegre. Altogether demonstrations took place in more than 60 cities, also including Recife, Salvador, Manaus and Fortaleza with the overall turnout likely to exceed 500,000. Local media and police reported a total of more than a million people, though their figures were based on a four-times higher estimates of the crowd in S\u00e3o Paulo.In Rio, many wore the canary yellow jerseys of the national football team or bore banners declaring outrage at a range of perceived national ills and policies that they say have more in common with less stable and more radical leftwing government in Latin America.\u201cBrazil does not want and will not be a new Venezuela,\u201d read one. \u201cNation + Liberty = PT (Workers Party) Out!\u201d declared another.There was a range of voices. While one flag extolled \u201cPeace and Love\u201d, a sizeable contingent of the crowd expressed support for a return to the military dictatorship that ran the country between 1964 and 1985\u201cArmy, Navy and Air Force. Please save us once again of [sic] communism\u201d read one banner in English. Among those holding it was computer graphic designer Marlon Aymes who said military force was the only way to unseat the Workers Party.\u201cThey are in power for 16 years. That is like a dictatorship,\u201d he said. \u201cIn 1964 the military of Brazil took a stand against a president who was close to the Kremlin. Today, the PT is in a group that wants a Bolivarian socialist model across Latin America. Common people are protesting and calling for impeachment, but congress is too corrupt to approve that so we need military intervention.\u201dMore moderate views were expressed by another demonstrator, Henrique Figueirdeo, a 23-year-old student of administration. \u201cI don\u2019t want a return to dictatorship. We need progressive politics and we need democracy. But we also need to tackle corruption and improve efficiency. For that we need a change of government.\u201dRousseff said she supported the protesters\u2019 rights to march and expressed hope that the rallies, which mark the 30th anniversary of the end of military rule, would demonstrate Brazil\u2019s \u201cdemocratic maturity\u201d.Opposition leader A\u00e9cio Neves, who lost by a narrow margin in October, said the protesters \u201cwent to the streets to reunite with their virtues, their values and also with their dreams\u201d.Many expressed support for a more radical rightwing politician, Jair Bolsonaro, who is a military reservist and has defended the dictatorship era. Although he has upset many with homophobic and sexist comments he won more votes in Rio than any other congressman last year.\u201cWe need another president, maybe Bolsonaro. He is close to the armed forces and he is the only one who speaks out,\u201d said Anna Mario Aracejo, an art teacher who was carrying a sign urging the use of armed force to \u201cliberate Brazil from corrupt politicians, parties and traitors of the nation.\u201d Related: Brazil's largest company, Petrobras, accused of political kickbacks Bolsonaro\u2019s son Fl\u00e1vio, also a politician, was embraced by many in the crowd. \u201cThis is a country without options, with high taxes and poor government,\u201d he told the Guardian. \u201cWe don\u2019t want a coup, but the government must respect the constitution.\u201dSome called for more internet freedom and lower taxes. Others complained at the weak economy, which is forecast to sink into recession this year, and the decade-high inflation of 7.7%.Many said they were marching because of the Petrobras scandal, which has seen 57 politicians, including former president Fernando Collor de Mello, investigated for kick-backs worth at least $3bn (\u00a32.03bn). Rousseff is not under investigation but as a former chair of Petrobras during the period when much of the corruption took place, she has struggled to avoid being tainted by a scandal that has implicated allies and opponents alike.Although all the major parties have been dragged into the mire, most of those implicated are from the ruling coalition and the demonstrators were collecting signatures calling for the impeachment of Rousseff.\u201cIt\u2019s unbelievable. They aren\u2019t politicians. They are criminals,\u201d said India Longras, who beat a frying pan painted with \u201cFora Dilma\u201d. \u201cI was born in the military dictatorship. It was a lot better than now. If I had to choose between then and now, I\u2019d choose dictatorship. Education was better, crime was low and the poor lived with dignity.\u201d Calls for a military coup were less evident at the bigger rallies in S\u00e3o Paulo and Brasilia. Sunday\u2019s protests were the biggest in Brazil since 2013, but the profile and politics of the participants were very different and they passed more peacefully. The Confederations Cup demonstrations two years ago had their origins in a campaign to secure free public transport and spread rapidly particularly among the young, via social networks after police violence inflamed public opinion. The latest wave of protests, however, is from an older, whiter, more affluent demographic, following widespread advance coverage by the mainstream media.Anticipating this, the Workers Party organised a rally last Friday in support of the government and state control of Petrobras, but there were less than a thousand people at their main demonstration in central Rio.\u2022 The headline on this article, and a picture caption, were amended on 16 March 2015 to correct misspellings of Rousseff\u2019s name.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil: hundreds of thousands of protesters call for Rousseff impeachment"},{"date": "2015-03-06T12:25:37Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The more you look at Brazil\u2019s fundamentals, the more shaky the country looks. And we are not talking about the defensive prowess of David Luiz here. It is the country\u2019s economic backline that risks tumbling down like a set of dominoes.When a Latin American economy is in trouble a good place to start is its inflation rate. Brazil\u2019s is today running at 7.5%. While this is nowhere near the 2,000-3,000% of the early 1990s, when the price of everything went up several times a week, it is far higher than the central bank\u2019s mid-point target of 4.5%. On Wednesday, in an effort to bring inflation down, Brazil\u2019s central bank raised interest rates to 12.75%, a six-year high.The problem is that the country is hiking interest rates \u2013 and trying to curb high prices \u2013 at a time in which its economy is on the brink of recession.Between 2002 and 2008, Brazil\u2019s economy expanded at 4% a year. It has since averaged less than 2%. GDP is expected to contract 0.5% this year.High inflation makes matters worse in at least two ways. First, high prices hinder shoppers\u2019 purchasing power. The Economist calculates that about half of the country\u2019s growth over the past decade was driven by consumption.A drop in purchases will not only dampen economic prospects but would lead to a recession that would freeze the pay of millions because the minimum wage is linked to GDP and inflation.Elsewhere, salaries in both the public and private sector have grown above GDP for the past decade and are now unlikely to keep pace with inflation. Tax hikes and fare rises will not help either.It is therefore not surprising that consumer confidence is at its lowest since records began in 2005.Second, next to rising prices, the real is sinking. Despite the rate increase, Brazil\u2019s currency hit R$3 to the US dollar on Wednesday for the first time in more than a decade. This puts further pressure on prices: the cost of imported goods goes up \u2013 more bad news for shoppers.The foreign outlook isn\u2019t much rosierAcross the Atlantic, many proponents of a Greek exit from the euro argue that the reintroduction of a domestic currency would allow for devaluation \u2013 and this in turn would boost exports. It\u2019s economics 101, they say. Under textbook circumstances it would be safe to assume that, broadly speaking, a weak currency does indeed aid exports.Things are a little more complicated in a global economy. According to The Economist, nearly half of Brazil\u2019s exports are bought by five countries \u2014 China, the US, Argentina, the Netherlands and Germany - and average GDP growth in these countries has now halved compared to 10 years ago.Government subsidies are less sustainableOne problem that Brazil increasingly shares with many EU countries is debt. Brazil holds nearly $250bn worth of dollar-denominated debt, up from $100bn just five years ago. A weak real means that the debt-pile is getting more burdensome. Around $40bn of it is due this year alone.Officially, Brazil\u2019s direct public debt is around 65% of GDP - the highest among Bric nations. However, according to the credit ratings agency Moody\u2019s, once indirect debt is factored in, the figure reaches 100%. This is due to guarantees for state-owned companies.In the first two months of this year, 27 Brazilian companies suffered a rating downgrade. There were zero upgrades. Unable to borrow from private markets, companies need government funding.However, Brazil\u2019s own sovereign credit rating is only a notch above junk, which combined with a weak real, means that borrowing is costly \u2013 and getting more so by the day. Spending on interest payments, which amounts to roughly 6% of Brazil\u2019s GDP, already increased 25% last year compared to 2013. Ten-year bond yields are at 13% \u2013 the same level as sanction-hit Russia.In order to finance companies and banks, the government and government-bank entities often lend at a loss. As debt increases, and with interest rates so high, this system of state subsidies becomes more difficult to sustain. No company better exemplifies the direness of affairs than Petrobras, the state-controlled energy giant. Mired in a corruption scandal, which has engulfed both company executives and high-profile politicians, the company accounts have been frozen and its credit-rating lowered to junk.Petrobras is Brazil\u2019s largest investor, accounting for more than 10% of the country\u2019s investments and employing tens of thousands of people. Even President Dilma Rousseff has gone as far as acknowledging that the scandal may change the country forever.Rationing brought Lula to power, it may topple RousseffAlthough Brazil is a very different country to what it was in the 1990s \u2013 it has, for example, a significant $360bn in reserves - the conundrum for Rousseff\u2019s government goes beyond a flat economy for a year or two.The worry is that Brazil ends up stuck in a place where both monetary and fiscal levers prove incapable of pulling the country out of the mess it is in. The wheels turn, but nothing moves in the right direction, and the country eventually sinks.One of the main contributing drivers to Brazil\u2019s rising inflation has been a severe drought. The driest months in decades have not only fuelled a sharp rise in food prices, but have led to water shortages that are grinding S\u00e3o Paulo, the country\u2019s most populous region, to a halt.An energy shortage in 2001 led to electricity rationing. In the following year\u2019s elections, the discredited government was swept aside by Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva.It is hard to predict what causes the first domino to fall. Once they start crashing down, however, halting the tumble of one piece after another is even harder. Just ask David Luiz.", "tags": ["Brics", "Economics", "Business", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "The noise from Brazil? An economy on the brink"},{"date": "2015-02-25T14:13:45Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A major lawsuit filed against McDonald\u2019s in Brazil is seeking to stop the fast food chain from opening any further stores in the country until it amends its working practices.Nine labour organisations, including Brazil\u2019s three largest trade unions, allege that McDonald\u2019s and its franchisee, Arcos Dourados (Golden Arches), have engaged in \u201csocial dumping\u201d \u2013 their term for widespread and systematic labour violations over the past three decades.Among the claims in the suit, filed at an industrial tribunal in Bras\u00edlia, Arcos Dourados stands accused of paying less than the minimum wage, employing underage staff and failing to pay overtime. It also alleges staff were exposed to unsanitary working conditions and obliged to work variable shift patterns, which is prohibited by local labour laws.\u201cMcDonald\u2019s turns a blind eye to Brazilian laws to ensure greater business profit, gaining an unfair advantage for itself over companies that respect the rule of the law,\u201d Moacyr Roberto Tesch Auersvald, president of Contratuh, a tourism and hospitality workers\u2019 union, said in a press conference in S\u00e3o Paulo on Tuesday.\u201cUnless the company immediately proves that it respects our laws and our workers, it should not be allowed to open up new stores in Brazil,\u201d he said. The plaintiffs are also seeking workers\u2019 compensation. Under Brazilian law, the value of the damages could be up to 30% of the company\u2019s revenues in Brazil.Arcos Dourados is the largest McDonald\u2019s franchisee in Latin America. Sales in Brazil are responsible for nearly half of McDonald\u2019s total revenues in Latin America. With 42,000 workers in 850 restaurants across the country, the company is also one of Brazil\u2019s biggest employers.Monica Caroline, 19, was contracted to work at a branch of McDonald\u2019s in a shopping centre in S\u00e3o Paulo under an apprenticeship scheme when she was 14. Part of her job consisted of cleaning meat-mincing machines and lifting heavy weights, activities legally prohibited for under-18s. She was also supposed to earn around R$3.60 ($1.26 per hour), but she said that she never received anything close to the amount she had earned.\u201cIt was my first job and I was really excited about the opportunity, but the experience was terrible,\u201d she said. \u201cI hold McDonald\u2019s responsible. None of the other apprentices I knew were treated as badly.\u201dIn a statement, McDonald\u2019s said that it has not been officially notified of the lawsuit: \u201cHowever, the company reiterates its conviction that its working practices fulfil all rules and legislations in the areas in which it operates. All of the company\u2019s employees are registered in accordance with legislation and receive remuneration and benefits in line with the collective agreements signed with the country\u2019s respective unions.\u201dMcDonald\u2019s has been cited in almost 400 lawsuits in Brazil over the past few years. In 2013, a court in the north-eastern city of Recife fined Arcos Dourados R$7.5m (\u00a31.7m) for obliging staff to work a variable shift pattern and to eat only McDonald\u2019s food during their meal times.Subsequently the company signed a national agreement with the labour ministry, committing itself to abide by Brazilian work laws. Leonardo Mendon\u00e7a, the labour ministry\u2019s chief negotiator in the 2013 deal, said he had received a lot of complaints about the working practices at McDonald\u2019s.\u201cArcos Dourados wanted to implement the same working patterns that McDonald\u2019s uses in the US or the UK,\u201d he said. \u201cBut that is not permitted under Brazilian law. Workers also have families and they should not always have to be at the dispensation of their companies.\u201dThe Washington-based Service Employees International Union (SEIU) is also backing the lawsuit. Jessica Davis, a 26-year-old McDonald\u2019s employee from the US who earns $9.28 an hour, addressed Tuesday\u2019s press conference in S\u00e3o Paulo via video link.\u201cIt\u2019s hard to earn a living and feed two kids with this pay,\u201d she said. \u201cWe need to expose the poor behind the golden logo of a company which is the second-biggest employer in the world.\u201dIn the US, unions are pushing for higher wages and benefits for workers in the fast-food and retail sectors. McDonald\u2019s is under increased pressure to raise wages following the decision by Walmart to increase its minimum pay to $9 an hour.In December 2014, McDonald\u2019s posted its worst monthly US sales decline in more than a decade. Global sales have been in decline since July.", "tags": ["McDonald's", "Business", "Brazil", "Americas", "Food & drink industry"], "title": "McDonald\u2019s discrimination lawsuit seeks to stop chain expanding in Brazil"},{"date": "2015-02-14T11:00:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "By the age of 10 I was running out of things to read. I had already charged through Malory Towers, Enid Blyton\u2019s postwar boarding school series that might best be described as \u201cjolly hockey sticks\u201d were it not for the fact that the girls actually play lacrosse. I had trudged with my cross-country skis along Elinor M Brent-Dyer\u2019s winding Chalet School oeuvre (60-odd volumes of Alpine adventure and German vocab tests). Now there was no choice but to turn to some old Angela Brazils that my grandmother had given me from her first world war schoolroom. But the titles were hardly promising. The Madcap of the School, The Jolliest Term on Record and For the School Colours all sounded like someone\u2019s clumsy parody of a hopelessly dated genre (I was reading them in the 1970s, the decade of the state comprehensive).Once I got going properly, though, I realised that Brazil\u2019s books weren\u2019t parodying anything. They were, rather, the fons et origo from which later writers, including Blyton and Brent-Dyer, had drawn heavily for their own mid-century yarns of flunked music exams, dorm feasts and \u2013 always a popular one, this \u2013 rescues from burning buildings. And while Brazil is barely read now, and her 49 books have not been reissued in those clunky liveries that you see on new editions of Malory Towers and Chalet School titles, hers is still the name that stands as shorthand for the entire genre of boarding school fiction. When it comes to working out who Harry Potter\u2019s parents really are, it is Brazil\u2019s gymslipped heroes rather than Frank Richards\u2019 Billy Bunter or Anthony Buckeridge\u2019s Jennings that we should examine for Muggle DNA.This is not as queer as it sounds, because Brazil\u2019s schoolgirls were always a gender-busting bunch, chafing furiously against the notion that there was anything their brothers could do that they could not, specially when it came to helping Britain win what was already known as \u201cthe Great War\u201d. In A Patriotic Schoolgirl (1918), 15-year-old Marjorie Anderson burns with desire to bunk off from Brackenfield College and \u201cnurse the wounded, drive a transport wagon, act as secretary to a staff officer, or even be telephone operator over in France.\u201d Head girl Winifrede Mason, meanwhile, announces to the assembled school: \u201c\u2018It is the duty of every British girl to make every possible sacrifice to keep those unspeakable Huns out of our islands\u2019 \u2026 \u2018it\u2019ll mean knocking off buns, I suppose,\u2019 sighed Sylvia mournfully.\u201dThe war made Brazil. Although she had dabbled with writing for children since 1899, it was with her first girls\u2019 school story, The Fortunes of Philippa (1906), that she really hit her stride. By 1914 and the publication of The Girls of St Cyprian\u2019s the world of global geopolitics and what Brazil called her \u201cstate in miniature\u201d had perfectly aligned. The qualities required by young men at the front \u2013 teamwork, honour, the all-important \u201cpluck\u201d \u2013 found their natural corollary in the developing schoolgirl ethos as crafted by Brazil. Instead of regiments there are houses, instead of NCOs there are prefects and, rather than trenches, there\u2019s a hockey pitch. In A Patriotic Schoolgirl, Betty Moore has some chocs from home and scoffs the whole box in bed without offering them round (\u201cWe could hear her crunching for ages\u201d). Brazil\u2019s subtext is immediately legible: Betty is not the sort of person you would want next to you in a Flanders trench.Marjorie, by contrast, is a team player. Since she is too young to join her father and brothers at the front, she decides to participate in her aunt\u2019s postal service for befriending lonely soldiers. But it all goes wrong when the 15-year-old\u2019s chosen Tommie writes back offering to \u201ckeep company\u201d when he returns to \u201cBlighty\u201d, helpfully adding that his civilian wage is \u00a32 a week. Marjorie is mortified \u201cto find that her protege was an uneducated working man who had entirely misconstrued the nature of her interest in him\u201d. Summoned to the headmistress\u2019s study, she is expelled on the spot for being \u201cfast\u201d.In 1936 the high mistress of St Paul\u2019s declared that she was minded to gather all Miss Brazil\u2019s books and burn themMarjorie\u2019s social naivety \u2013 she \u201chad a vague idea that the army consisted mostly of public school boys\u201d \u2013 is weighed against her lack of judgment and she is eventually restored to the bosom of Brackenfield. From now on, the firm-but-fair headmistress Mrs Morrison suggests, girls should channel their war efforts into sewing bed jackets for soldiers rather than offering to be their friends. Duly warned off heterosexuality, Marjorie develops a passionate attachment to her classmate Chrissie Lang instead. The two teenagers walk arm-in-arm, write each other sentimental notes and promise to \u201cmake love\u201d all evening. Marjorie\u2019s amused classmates conclude that she has \u201cgot it badly\u201d although they can\u2019t really see why: \u201cChrissie can\u2019t pronounce her rs properly.\u201dYou only need to have read a couple of Brazils before to guess how it all ends. Chrissie Lang (\u201ca good old Scottish name\u201d) is in fact Christine Lange, a German spy who has been enrolled at Brackenfield to help her soldier brother escape from a nearby PoW camp. She is last heard of making for the beach where a boat is waiting. There is a silver lining, though, quite apart from the fact that Marjorie will no longer have to spend her evenings embroidering hankies with a wobbly \u201cCL\u201d. The teacher whom the Brackenfield girls have long suspected of being the spy in their midst turns out to be entirely innocent. Miss \u201cAcid Drop\u201d Norton actually has a perfectly good reason for hanging around the local pub talking to funny-sounding foreigners (and it has nothing to do with needing a stiff drink and adult conversation after a long week closeted with the Upper Fourth).It all sounds like good, clean, formulaic fun, so it comes as a shock to learn that, just like Blyton 40 years later, Brazil\u2019s work was bitterly condemned by professional educators. In 1936 the high mistress of St Paul\u2019s, Ethel Strudwick, declared in assembly that she was minded to gather all of Miss Brazil\u2019s books and burn them. It wasn\u2019t the repetitive plotlines and sketchy characterisations that offended her, nor even the vague possibility that St Paul\u2019s might have loosely figured in one of Brazil\u2019s books; it was the terrible language: \u201cRouse up, you old bluebottle, can\u2019t you\u201d; \u201cRight you are, O Queen! It\u2019s a blossomy idea!\u201d \u201cMiss Jones is a stunt, as jinky as you like\u201d, and, the one that got everyone especially riled, \u201cTwiggez-vous?\u201dWhether or not schoolgirls actually spoke like this, or whether they only started to after reading Brazil, remains a moot point. But perhaps what really bothered Strudwick was not so much the silliness of the slang so much as the way it marked early adolescence as a distinct culture, one with its own impenetrable codes and customs. Until the 1880s middle-class girls had been mostly educated at home under the watchful eye of mothers, governesses and elder sisters. But with the coming of academic boarding schools and high schools, young women\u2019s bonds were increasingly with other girls of their own age. Brazil\u2019s books glory in this new complicity, showing loud, boisterous teenagers forming themselves into self-policing groups, untroubled by the distant rumble of prefects and teachers. The girls of St Cyprian\u2019s, St Ronan\u2019s and St Chad\u2019s jump out of windows, play pranks, go awol on cliff tops and tie things to weather vanes. From here it is but a short jump to the dystopian fantasy of the St Trinian\u2019s series, Ronald Searle\u2019s accounts of posh-girl thuggery that were published toe-to-toe with Blyton\u2019s Malory Towers books.Rereading Brazil now, though, it is not her girls\u2019 potential for tribal violence that strikes one so much as their social vulnerability as individuals. Far from being secure in her privilege, a typical Brazil hero is only at school because of some particular bit of luck: perhaps her sister already teaches at the school so she gets a bursary, or her uncle has agreed to pay the fees, or the number on her scholarship exam paper is mixed up with someone else\u2019s. It is the other girls \u2013 usually the not-so-nice ones \u2013 who have a pony at home and an uncle who is a brigadier. And it is precisely because the hero is declassee that she is the prime suspect whenever some bit of transgressive behaviour, usually stealing or snitching, is suspected, a trope that Denise Deegan nailed so brilliantly in 1983 with her smart stage parody of Brazil\u2019s universe, Daisy Pulls It Off.This acute sense that her heroes did not quite belong in the world in which she had placed them was grounded in Brazil\u2019s own experience as the daughter of a Lancashire cotton-mill manager. Far from being at Cheltenham or Roedean, her education was mostly undertaken at cheaper local day schools: \u201cBolton was a penance to artistic minds,\u201d she once recalled with a shudder. This also explains why so many thousands of girls, whose only chance of gaining access to a boarding school was through a job in the kitchens, gulped down Brazil\u2019s books with such passion. \u201cIt has always been the dearest wish of my heart to go to a boarding school,\u201d runs a typical letter to the author, \u201cbut unfortunately we are poor and I had to go to a board-school.\u201d By identifying with a precariously privileged hero, working-class girls were able to spin for themselves a Cinderella narrative in which they were, for a few hours at least, able to attend The Gables, Uplands or Manor House.The way in which Brazil used fairytale devices to resolve her plots \u2013 her books contain far more orphans, baronet uncles and long-lost Stradivariuses than I had remembered \u2013 also explains the recherche names of her heroes. Instead of \u201cDorothy\u201d, \u201cGertrude\u201d or \u201cViolet\u201d, Brazil\u2019s leading ladies are Loveday, Winona, Avelyn, Aldred and Lesbia. Especially Lesbia. It was a name that she recycled, bestowing it on minor characters as well as on the two heroes, Lesbia Carrington (For the School Colours) and Lesbia Ferrars (Loyal to the School), with whom she most closely identified.That doesn\u2019t mean, of course, that Brazil was throwing out coded messages about her own sexuality. Her outward life was one of deep respectability, spent with her unmarried brother and sister in a handsome villa in the centre of Coventry. Her inner life, by all accounts, remained entirely opaque to her. What we can say, though, is that her books are full of girls developing \u201cred hot\u201d pashes on one another, breaking up, sobbing and coming together for a cuddle in bed. All of which was suggestive enough for Philip Larkin, as a young man at Oxford in the 1940s, to write Trouble at Willow Gables, an over-excited pastiche of Brazil in which both staff and girls are oddly forgetful when it comes to wearing knickers.More benign were the various parodies produced by Arthur Marshall, the late, (assumed) gay broadcaster who had a declared passion for the world of Angela Brazil. In his autobiography Marshall explained how he managed to get through the Dunkirk evacuation of 1940: \u201cI chose to imagine that we were all in a vast girls\u2019 school: Headmistress, Miss Gladys Gort; School colours, khaki and black; School motto, Don\u2019t Look Back Or You Might See Something Nasty. All the junior girls were dead nuts on that new and dashing hockey mistress, Miss Brenda Montgomery\u201d \u2013 aka Field Marshall Montgomery.In 1944, when Brazil was coming to the end of her life, the new Education Act furnished able girls from the middling middle classes with a free education at either a direct-grant or grammar school, leaving boarding public schools such as Benenden, the model for Malory Towers, to a financial and social elite. That didn\u2019t stop girls wanting to read about such schools \u2013 Blyton and Brent\u2011Dyer sold extremely well right up to the early 1990s \u2013 but there was a sense that what was being described was a kind of education that had happened a long time ago and far away. Until 1997, that is, when JK Rowling, the comprehensive-educated girl who had grown up with a passion for boarding school fiction, sat down to reimagine Brazil\u2019s universe for a new generation of girls \u2013 and boys.\u2022 This article was amended on 24 February 2015. An earlier version of the photo caption said that the 2002 production was at the Lyric Hammersmith, rather than the Lyric on Shaftesbury Avenue, London W1.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Angela Brazil: dorm feasts and red-hot pashes"},{"date": "2015-03-07T10:37:38Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Tourists have their view of Brazil but what\u2019s your country really like? We\u2019d like you to show us Brazil from your perspective \u2013 the places that visitors to your country don\u2019t often get to see \u2013 and the hidden stories that you think we should be aware of.Share your view of Brazil in photos, videos and words by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app \u2013 just search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 . You can also email guardian.witness@theguardian.com Related: Show us your Brazil: your GuardianWitness contributions We\u2019ll publish the the most interesting contributions on the Guardian site. Turistas t\u00eam sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil, mas como \u00e9 seu pa\u00eds de verdade? N\u00f3s queremos que voc\u00ea nos mostre o Brasil pela sua perspectiva \u2013 os lugares que os turistas n\u00e3o costumam ver \u2013 e as hist\u00f3rias que voc\u00ea acredita que devam ser de nosso interesse.Compartilhe sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil em fotos, v\u00eddeos e palavras clicando no bot\u00e3o azul \u201cContribute\u201d neste artigo. Voc\u00ea tamb\u00e9m pode usar o aplicativo de smartphone GuardianWitness ou o novo aplicativo do Guardian e procurar por \u201cGuardianWitness assignments\u201d. Ou, voc\u00ea pode nos enviar um email pelo guardian.witness@theguardian.com N\u00f3s publicaremos as contribui\u00e7\u00f5es mais interessantes em nosso site.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Show us your Brazil"},{"date": "2015-03-19T16:25:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A million and a half protesters took to the streets in Brazil on Sunday in the biggest popular movement since the pro-election demonstrations in 1984. The mass gathering felt like a joyful celebration of civic rights; it was not organised by any political party, but over the social networks by hundreds of individual groups scattered around Brazil. A new digital democracy was in action once again. No sole issue sparked the protests but surveys revealed that the principal motives were related to anger at corruption; there were demands that President Dilma Rousseff be impeached and protests against the Workers\u2019 Party administration and a congress so impervious to reality that it seems to inhabit a glass dome.On the Friday before the protests, pro-government rallies had been held on a much smaller scale. Even then the government\u2019s supporters protested against the loss of workers\u2019 rights and demanded political reform, as well as an increase in teachers\u2019 salaries. Some placards went as far as calling the president a traitor.Brazil, a historically unequal country, has been slowly reducing the gulf between rich and poor. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva\u2019s election in 2002 led many to believe that this gap would narrow radically. That year, China\u2019s growth led to an increase in commodity prices that lasted until the crisis in 2008. Brazil found itself with a surplus that allowed the new administration to do something never seen in the country before \u2013 cater to both the financial markets that attract foreign capital, and help the poorer sections of society with income distribution programmes and cheap credit. The country went through a euphoric consumerist upheaval. Salaries increased, jobs were abundant, living standards rose. Economic activity was booming and there seemed to be no going back \u2013 we had become part of a virtuous circle. It was the first time in 50 years that I read only good news when I opened the papers in the morning.'This absurd system has been going on for years, but everyone thought that a leftist party would change the picture.'In 2006, the Workers\u2019 party was involved in a scandal regarding the buying of congressmen\u2019s votes, but Lula denied knowing anything about it and was re-elected. The sense of euphoria continued, but in 2008, the financial crisis hit. The president, now in his second term, assured us that it was no big deal \u2013 just a ripple that wouldn\u2019t have any effect on Brazil. Other problems, such as a lack of investment in infrastructure and education, became apparent, but all were minimised so that the party would win the 2010 elections.Rousseff, then largely unknown, was presented to Lula\u2019s supporters and consequently elected. The work of the \u201ccreator\u201d, she was given the epithet of \u201ccreature\u201d, but Lula\u2019s choice made sense. He held complete sway over the new president and took it upon himself to put together a new ministerial cabinet by portioning out favours in exchange for political support in congress. The more votes a party had, the more ministers they could put into office. Historically rightwing antagonists and oligarchies were soon swept up into the Workers\u2019 party partisan base, all done in name of \u201cgovernability\u201d.Methods such as this are now institutionalised in modern Brazil and take place shamelessly, in the open. On first being elected Rousseff endeavoured to continue as before, but commodity prices had fallen, the government\u2019s political machinery had become more expensive and there was no way to make ends meet. Even so, the president did not make the necessary changes to the economy. Her term ended in 2014 with inflation knocking on the door and overpricing allegations against almost all the ongoing infrastructure projects. The country\u2019s growth fell to 0.2%, an energy crisis began taking shape and the middle class was left in debt, with banks demanding the easy money they had lent throughout the previous years. Spring had come and gone.The re-election of the Workers\u2019 party for its fourth term was now a high stakes game. Its presidential campaign paid scant attention to the truth. On TV, the party depicted a Brazil that just did not exist, ignoring all the problems that the country was facing. It devoted much of the debate to personal attacks on the opposition and continued this strategy throughout the campaign, endlessly asserting that its adversaries would increase energy tariffs, cut workers\u2019 benefits and adopt a recessive monetary policy. It amounted to a revival of the old \u201cus\u201d versus \u201cthem\u201d discourse and divided the country as never before. Politics was a topic to be carefully avoided during friendly get-togethers. The marketing strategy worked and Rousseff was re-elected with a slim 3% majority.Upon taking office again in January, the first measures taken by the president were to cut workers\u2019 benefits and increase energy tariffs, doing exactly what she had said her opponents would do if elected. Already without the support of half the population, she has now lost the support of her own constituents, who feel betrayed. A survey released on 18 March found that 62% of the population considers her government bad or very bad. When the going gets rough, everybody runs for shelter. Lula does not want this crisis to jeopardise his return in 2018, and Rousseff has lost support within her own party.The president is now isolated, trying to rein in increasing inflation and a water and energy crisis, as well as dealing with an ongoing investigation into the embezzlement of funds from Petrobras, the largest company in the country. Much of the population believes that the president knew about the scheme to route money from the oil company to finance party activities and to fatten the wallets of a chosen few. And it is this that led 20% of the protesters to demand her impeachment, while the others clamoured for the end of corruption.No one argues that the Workers\u2019 party invented corruption in Brazil. Political campaigns here are financed by companies, mostly construction companies that later demand they be repaid in major construction jobs from those in power. This absurd system has been going on for years, but everyone thought that a leftist party that preached sincerity would be able to change the picture. This did not happen and the populace\u2019s patience has run out, as demonstrated by Sunday\u2019s protests.There is still some good news. Executives from some of the biggest construction companies in Brazil have been jailed for their involvement in the Petrobras case. To have millionaires with full access to government officials in jail is unique in Brazilian history. Plea-bargains with some of these businessmen mean that there is a good chance some of the congressmen involved will be punished. If they get their just deserts it will be the beginning of an anxiously awaited process of political reform. As in all crises, an opportunity is always on the horizon.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil has had enough of broken promises | Fernando Meirelles"},{"date": "2015-02-16T19:17:49Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Allegations of corruption at the aircraft engine-maker Rolls-Royce spread to Brazil on Monday, adding to the woes of a group that is already involved in a Serious Fraud Office (SFO) investigation into bribery claims in China and Indonesia.The engineering group, which also supplies gas turbines for oil platforms, became embroiled in a long-running bribery case at Petrobras when it was named in court testimony by a former executive of the Brazilian state oil company as having paid bribes.Pedro Barusco, a Petrobras veteran who struck a plea bargain in November and has emerged as one of the investigation\u2019s key informants, told police he personally received at least $200,000 (\u00a3130,000) from Rolls-Royce \u2014 according to court documents reported by the Financial Times.A spokesman for Rolls-Royce said: \u201cWe have not received details of the allegations made in recent press reports, nor have we been approached by the authorities in Brazil.\u201cWe have always been clear that we will not tolerate improper business conduct of any sort and will take all necessary action to ensure compliance, including co-operating with authorities in any country.\u201dThe Brazilian oil company is engulfed in a corruption scandal in which billions of dollars were allegedly paid by companies to win contracts. The FT\u2019s report said that the allegations against Rolls-Royce relate to a $100m contract.Rolls-Royce has been operating in Brazil for around 50 years in sectors that include civil aerospace, marine and energy. The group also deals with the Brazilian armed forces, whose aircraft fleet includes Hercules C130s and helicopters, which are powered by Rolls-Royce engines. The British company has been supplying Petrobras for more than a decade.The latest allegations emerged a week after Rolls-Royce reported its first fall in sales in a decade as it warned its performance in 2015 would be worse than previously feared owing to low oil prices.The Derby-based group had already announced it would cut thousands of jobs. Last week it reported that there was less demand for products in its marine business, which designs ships and supplies equipment for the offshore oil and gas industry. It also reported cutbacks from customers who use its equipment in power generation, construction and mining projects. The allegations in Brazil follow the SFO opening a formal criminal investigation into Rolls-Royce at the end of 2013, after a whistleblower claimed that the jet engine manufacturer had bribed Tommy Suharto, son of Indonesia\u2019s former president General Suharto, with $20m and a blue Rolls-Royce car.The Suharto allegations were made by former Rolls-Royce employee Dick Taylor in a series of online comments. The company is accused of paying bribes in the 1980s and 1990s to persuade the national airline, Garuda, to order Rolls-Royce Trent 700 engines.Lawyers for Suharto said at the time: \u201cHe [Suharto] did not, and has never, received monies or a car from Rolls-Royce and nor did he recommend their engines to Garuda, as alleged.\u201d", "tags": ["Rolls-Royce", "Manufacturing sector", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "UK news", "Business", "Brazil", "World news"], "title": "Rolls-Royce corruption claims spread to Brazil"},{"date": "2015-03-15T17:41:42Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "More than half a million Brazilians took to the streets on Sunday to protest against corruption, demand the impeachment of President Dilma Rousseff and, in some cases, to call for a military coup.The rightwing demonstration comes amid growing frustration at the moribund economy, political constipation and a huge bribery scandal at the state-run oil company, Petrobras.Singing the national anthem, waving flags and chanting \u201cFora Dilma\u201d (\u201cDilma out\u201d), between 10 and 20 thousand predominantly white, middle class people marched along the seafront at Copacabana to insist on a change of government barely five months after Rousseff was re-elected. Related: Dilma Rousseff pledges unity after narrow Brazil election victory Police estimated the crowd in Rio de Janeiro at 25,000. In the centre of S\u00e3o Paulo, ten times that number joined a rally on Avenida Paulista, according to the Datafolha polling agency. In the capital, Brasilia, 40,000 rallied in front of Congress. In both Belo Horizonte and Belem, about 20,000 people joined the anti-government demonstrations . Another 40,000 were reported on the streets in Ribeir\u00e3o Preto in S\u00e3o Paulo state and 100,000 in Porto Alegre. Altogether demonstrations took place in more than 60 cities, also including Recife, Salvador, Manaus and Fortaleza with the overall turnout likely to exceed 500,000. Local media and police reported a total of more than a million people, though their figures were based on a four-times higher estimates of the crowd in S\u00e3o Paulo.In Rio, many wore the canary yellow jerseys of the national football team or bore banners declaring outrage at a range of perceived national ills and policies that they say have more in common with less stable and more radical leftwing government in Latin America.\u201cBrazil does not want and will not be a new Venezuela,\u201d read one. \u201cNation + Liberty = PT (Workers Party) Out!\u201d declared another.There was a range of voices. While one flag extolled \u201cPeace and Love\u201d, a sizeable contingent of the crowd expressed support for a return to the military dictatorship that ran the country between 1964 and 1985\u201cArmy, Navy and Air Force. Please save us once again of [sic] communism\u201d read one banner in English. Among those holding it was computer graphic designer Marlon Aymes who said military force was the only way to unseat the Workers Party.\u201cThey are in power for 16 years. That is like a dictatorship,\u201d he said. \u201cIn 1964 the military of Brazil took a stand against a president who was close to the Kremlin. Today, the PT is in a group that wants a Bolivarian socialist model across Latin America. Common people are protesting and calling for impeachment, but congress is too corrupt to approve that so we need military intervention.\u201dMore moderate views were expressed by another demonstrator, Henrique Figueirdeo, a 23-year-old student of administration. \u201cI don\u2019t want a return to dictatorship. We need progressive politics and we need democracy. But we also need to tackle corruption and improve efficiency. For that we need a change of government.\u201dRousseff said she supported the protesters\u2019 rights to march and expressed hope that the rallies, which mark the 30th anniversary of the end of military rule, would demonstrate Brazil\u2019s \u201cdemocratic maturity\u201d.Opposition leader A\u00e9cio Neves, who lost by a narrow margin in October, said the protesters \u201cwent to the streets to reunite with their virtues, their values and also with their dreams\u201d.Many expressed support for a more radical rightwing politician, Jair Bolsonaro, who is a military reservist and has defended the dictatorship era. Although he has upset many with homophobic and sexist comments he won more votes in Rio than any other congressman last year.\u201cWe need another president, maybe Bolsonaro. He is close to the armed forces and he is the only one who speaks out,\u201d said Anna Mario Aracejo, an art teacher who was carrying a sign urging the use of armed force to \u201cliberate Brazil from corrupt politicians, parties and traitors of the nation.\u201d Related: Brazil's largest company, Petrobras, accused of political kickbacks Bolsonaro\u2019s son Fl\u00e1vio, also a politician, was embraced by many in the crowd. \u201cThis is a country without options, with high taxes and poor government,\u201d he told the Guardian. \u201cWe don\u2019t want a coup, but the government must respect the constitution.\u201dSome called for more internet freedom and lower taxes. Others complained at the weak economy, which is forecast to sink into recession this year, and the decade-high inflation of 7.7%.Many said they were marching because of the Petrobras scandal, which has seen 57 politicians, including former president Fernando Collor de Mello, investigated for kick-backs worth at least $3bn (\u00a32.03bn). Rousseff is not under investigation but as a former chair of Petrobras during the period when much of the corruption took place, she has struggled to avoid being tainted by a scandal that has implicated allies and opponents alike.Although all the major parties have been dragged into the mire, most of those implicated are from the ruling coalition and the demonstrators were collecting signatures calling for the impeachment of Rousseff.\u201cIt\u2019s unbelievable. They aren\u2019t politicians. They are criminals,\u201d said India Longras, who beat a frying pan painted with \u201cFora Dilma\u201d. \u201cI was born in the military dictatorship. It was a lot better than now. If I had to choose between then and now, I\u2019d choose dictatorship. Education was better, crime was low and the poor lived with dignity.\u201d Calls for a military coup were less evident at the bigger rallies in S\u00e3o Paulo and Brasilia. Sunday\u2019s protests were the biggest in Brazil since 2013, but the profile and politics of the participants were very different and they passed more peacefully. The Confederations Cup demonstrations two years ago had their origins in a campaign to secure free public transport and spread rapidly particularly among the young, via social networks after police violence inflamed public opinion. The latest wave of protests, however, is from an older, whiter, more affluent demographic, following widespread advance coverage by the mainstream media.Anticipating this, the Workers Party organised a rally last Friday in support of the government and state control of Petrobras, but there were less than a thousand people at their main demonstration in central Rio.\u2022 The headline on this article, and a picture caption, were amended on 16 March 2015 to correct misspellings of Rousseff\u2019s name.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil: hundreds of thousands of protesters call for Rousseff impeachment"},{"date": "2015-03-06T12:25:37Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The more you look at Brazil\u2019s fundamentals, the more shaky the country looks. And we are not talking about the defensive prowess of David Luiz here. It is the country\u2019s economic backline that risks tumbling down like a set of dominoes.When a Latin American economy is in trouble a good place to start is its inflation rate. Brazil\u2019s is today running at 7.5%. While this is nowhere near the 2,000-3,000% of the early 1990s, when the price of everything went up several times a week, it is far higher than the central bank\u2019s mid-point target of 4.5%. On Wednesday, in an effort to bring inflation down, Brazil\u2019s central bank raised interest rates to 12.75%, a six-year high.The problem is that the country is hiking interest rates \u2013 and trying to curb high prices \u2013 at a time in which its economy is on the brink of recession.Between 2002 and 2008, Brazil\u2019s economy expanded at 4% a year. It has since averaged less than 2%. GDP is expected to contract 0.5% this year.High inflation makes matters worse in at least two ways. First, high prices hinder shoppers\u2019 purchasing power. The Economist calculates that about half of the country\u2019s growth over the past decade was driven by consumption.A drop in purchases will not only dampen economic prospects but would lead to a recession that would freeze the pay of millions because the minimum wage is linked to GDP and inflation.Elsewhere, salaries in both the public and private sector have grown above GDP for the past decade and are now unlikely to keep pace with inflation. Tax hikes and fare rises will not help either.It is therefore not surprising that consumer confidence is at its lowest since records began in 2005.Second, next to rising prices, the real is sinking. Despite the rate increase, Brazil\u2019s currency hit R$3 to the US dollar on Wednesday for the first time in more than a decade. This puts further pressure on prices: the cost of imported goods goes up \u2013 more bad news for shoppers.The foreign outlook isn\u2019t much rosierAcross the Atlantic, many proponents of a Greek exit from the euro argue that the reintroduction of a domestic currency would allow for devaluation \u2013 and this in turn would boost exports. It\u2019s economics 101, they say. Under textbook circumstances it would be safe to assume that, broadly speaking, a weak currency does indeed aid exports.Things are a little more complicated in a global economy. According to The Economist, nearly half of Brazil\u2019s exports are bought by five countries \u2014 China, the US, Argentina, the Netherlands and Germany - and average GDP growth in these countries has now halved compared to 10 years ago.Government subsidies are less sustainableOne problem that Brazil increasingly shares with many EU countries is debt. Brazil holds nearly $250bn worth of dollar-denominated debt, up from $100bn just five years ago. A weak real means that the debt-pile is getting more burdensome. Around $40bn of it is due this year alone.Officially, Brazil\u2019s direct public debt is around 65% of GDP - the highest among Bric nations. However, according to the credit ratings agency Moody\u2019s, once indirect debt is factored in, the figure reaches 100%. This is due to guarantees for state-owned companies.In the first two months of this year, 27 Brazilian companies suffered a rating downgrade. There were zero upgrades. Unable to borrow from private markets, companies need government funding.However, Brazil\u2019s own sovereign credit rating is only a notch above junk, which combined with a weak real, means that borrowing is costly \u2013 and getting more so by the day. Spending on interest payments, which amounts to roughly 6% of Brazil\u2019s GDP, already increased 25% last year compared to 2013. Ten-year bond yields are at 13% \u2013 the same level as sanction-hit Russia.In order to finance companies and banks, the government and government-bank entities often lend at a loss. As debt increases, and with interest rates so high, this system of state subsidies becomes more difficult to sustain. No company better exemplifies the direness of affairs than Petrobras, the state-controlled energy giant. Mired in a corruption scandal, which has engulfed both company executives and high-profile politicians, the company accounts have been frozen and its credit-rating lowered to junk.Petrobras is Brazil\u2019s largest investor, accounting for more than 10% of the country\u2019s investments and employing tens of thousands of people. Even President Dilma Rousseff has gone as far as acknowledging that the scandal may change the country forever.Rationing brought Lula to power, it may topple RousseffAlthough Brazil is a very different country to what it was in the 1990s \u2013 it has, for example, a significant $360bn in reserves - the conundrum for Rousseff\u2019s government goes beyond a flat economy for a year or two.The worry is that Brazil ends up stuck in a place where both monetary and fiscal levers prove incapable of pulling the country out of the mess it is in. The wheels turn, but nothing moves in the right direction, and the country eventually sinks.One of the main contributing drivers to Brazil\u2019s rising inflation has been a severe drought. The driest months in decades have not only fuelled a sharp rise in food prices, but have led to water shortages that are grinding S\u00e3o Paulo, the country\u2019s most populous region, to a halt.An energy shortage in 2001 led to electricity rationing. In the following year\u2019s elections, the discredited government was swept aside by Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva.It is hard to predict what causes the first domino to fall. Once they start crashing down, however, halting the tumble of one piece after another is even harder. Just ask David Luiz.", "tags": ["Brics", "Economics", "Business", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff"], "title": "The noise from Brazil? An economy on the brink"},{"date": "2015-02-25T14:13:45Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A major lawsuit filed against McDonald\u2019s in Brazil is seeking to stop the fast food chain from opening any further stores in the country until it amends its working practices.Nine labour organisations, including Brazil\u2019s three largest trade unions, allege that McDonald\u2019s and its franchisee, Arcos Dourados (Golden Arches), have engaged in \u201csocial dumping\u201d \u2013 their term for widespread and systematic labour violations over the past three decades.Among the claims in the suit, filed at an industrial tribunal in Bras\u00edlia, Arcos Dourados stands accused of paying less than the minimum wage, employing underage staff and failing to pay overtime. It also alleges staff were exposed to unsanitary working conditions and obliged to work variable shift patterns, which is prohibited by local labour laws.\u201cMcDonald\u2019s turns a blind eye to Brazilian laws to ensure greater business profit, gaining an unfair advantage for itself over companies that respect the rule of the law,\u201d Moacyr Roberto Tesch Auersvald, president of Contratuh, a tourism and hospitality workers\u2019 union, said in a press conference in S\u00e3o Paulo on Tuesday.\u201cUnless the company immediately proves that it respects our laws and our workers, it should not be allowed to open up new stores in Brazil,\u201d he said. The plaintiffs are also seeking workers\u2019 compensation. Under Brazilian law, the value of the damages could be up to 30% of the company\u2019s revenues in Brazil.Arcos Dourados is the largest McDonald\u2019s franchisee in Latin America. Sales in Brazil are responsible for nearly half of McDonald\u2019s total revenues in Latin America. With 42,000 workers in 850 restaurants across the country, the company is also one of Brazil\u2019s biggest employers.Monica Caroline, 19, was contracted to work at a branch of McDonald\u2019s in a shopping centre in S\u00e3o Paulo under an apprenticeship scheme when she was 14. Part of her job consisted of cleaning meat-mincing machines and lifting heavy weights, activities legally prohibited for under-18s. She was also supposed to earn around R$3.60 ($1.26 per hour), but she said that she never received anything close to the amount she had earned.\u201cIt was my first job and I was really excited about the opportunity, but the experience was terrible,\u201d she said. \u201cI hold McDonald\u2019s responsible. None of the other apprentices I knew were treated as badly.\u201dIn a statement, McDonald\u2019s said that it has not been officially notified of the lawsuit: \u201cHowever, the company reiterates its conviction that its working practices fulfil all rules and legislations in the areas in which it operates. All of the company\u2019s employees are registered in accordance with legislation and receive remuneration and benefits in line with the collective agreements signed with the country\u2019s respective unions.\u201dMcDonald\u2019s has been cited in almost 400 lawsuits in Brazil over the past few years. In 2013, a court in the north-eastern city of Recife fined Arcos Dourados R$7.5m (\u00a31.7m) for obliging staff to work a variable shift pattern and to eat only McDonald\u2019s food during their meal times.Subsequently the company signed a national agreement with the labour ministry, committing itself to abide by Brazilian work laws. Leonardo Mendon\u00e7a, the labour ministry\u2019s chief negotiator in the 2013 deal, said he had received a lot of complaints about the working practices at McDonald\u2019s.\u201cArcos Dourados wanted to implement the same working patterns that McDonald\u2019s uses in the US or the UK,\u201d he said. \u201cBut that is not permitted under Brazilian law. Workers also have families and they should not always have to be at the dispensation of their companies.\u201dThe Washington-based Service Employees International Union (SEIU) is also backing the lawsuit. Jessica Davis, a 26-year-old McDonald\u2019s employee from the US who earns $9.28 an hour, addressed Tuesday\u2019s press conference in S\u00e3o Paulo via video link.\u201cIt\u2019s hard to earn a living and feed two kids with this pay,\u201d she said. \u201cWe need to expose the poor behind the golden logo of a company which is the second-biggest employer in the world.\u201dIn the US, unions are pushing for higher wages and benefits for workers in the fast-food and retail sectors. McDonald\u2019s is under increased pressure to raise wages following the decision by Walmart to increase its minimum pay to $9 an hour.In December 2014, McDonald\u2019s posted its worst monthly US sales decline in more than a decade. Global sales have been in decline since July.", "tags": ["McDonald's", "Business", "Brazil", "Americas", "Food & drink industry"], "title": "McDonald\u2019s discrimination lawsuit seeks to stop chain expanding in Brazil"},{"date": "2015-02-14T11:00:03Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "By the age of 10 I was running out of things to read. I had already charged through Malory Towers, Enid Blyton\u2019s postwar boarding school series that might best be described as \u201cjolly hockey sticks\u201d were it not for the fact that the girls actually play lacrosse. I had trudged with my cross-country skis along Elinor M Brent-Dyer\u2019s winding Chalet School oeuvre (60-odd volumes of Alpine adventure and German vocab tests). Now there was no choice but to turn to some old Angela Brazils that my grandmother had given me from her first world war schoolroom. But the titles were hardly promising. The Madcap of the School, The Jolliest Term on Record and For the School Colours all sounded like someone\u2019s clumsy parody of a hopelessly dated genre (I was reading them in the 1970s, the decade of the state comprehensive).Once I got going properly, though, I realised that Brazil\u2019s books weren\u2019t parodying anything. They were, rather, the fons et origo from which later writers, including Blyton and Brent-Dyer, had drawn heavily for their own mid-century yarns of flunked music exams, dorm feasts and \u2013 always a popular one, this \u2013 rescues from burning buildings. And while Brazil is barely read now, and her 49 books have not been reissued in those clunky liveries that you see on new editions of Malory Towers and Chalet School titles, hers is still the name that stands as shorthand for the entire genre of boarding school fiction. When it comes to working out who Harry Potter\u2019s parents really are, it is Brazil\u2019s gymslipped heroes rather than Frank Richards\u2019 Billy Bunter or Anthony Buckeridge\u2019s Jennings that we should examine for Muggle DNA.This is not as queer as it sounds, because Brazil\u2019s schoolgirls were always a gender-busting bunch, chafing furiously against the notion that there was anything their brothers could do that they could not, specially when it came to helping Britain win what was already known as \u201cthe Great War\u201d. In A Patriotic Schoolgirl (1918), 15-year-old Marjorie Anderson burns with desire to bunk off from Brackenfield College and \u201cnurse the wounded, drive a transport wagon, act as secretary to a staff officer, or even be telephone operator over in France.\u201d Head girl Winifrede Mason, meanwhile, announces to the assembled school: \u201c\u2018It is the duty of every British girl to make every possible sacrifice to keep those unspeakable Huns out of our islands\u2019 \u2026 \u2018it\u2019ll mean knocking off buns, I suppose,\u2019 sighed Sylvia mournfully.\u201dThe war made Brazil. Although she had dabbled with writing for children since 1899, it was with her first girls\u2019 school story, The Fortunes of Philippa (1906), that she really hit her stride. By 1914 and the publication of The Girls of St Cyprian\u2019s the world of global geopolitics and what Brazil called her \u201cstate in miniature\u201d had perfectly aligned. The qualities required by young men at the front \u2013 teamwork, honour, the all-important \u201cpluck\u201d \u2013 found their natural corollary in the developing schoolgirl ethos as crafted by Brazil. Instead of regiments there are houses, instead of NCOs there are prefects and, rather than trenches, there\u2019s a hockey pitch. In A Patriotic Schoolgirl, Betty Moore has some chocs from home and scoffs the whole box in bed without offering them round (\u201cWe could hear her crunching for ages\u201d). Brazil\u2019s subtext is immediately legible: Betty is not the sort of person you would want next to you in a Flanders trench.Marjorie, by contrast, is a team player. Since she is too young to join her father and brothers at the front, she decides to participate in her aunt\u2019s postal service for befriending lonely soldiers. But it all goes wrong when the 15-year-old\u2019s chosen Tommie writes back offering to \u201ckeep company\u201d when he returns to \u201cBlighty\u201d, helpfully adding that his civilian wage is \u00a32 a week. Marjorie is mortified \u201cto find that her protege was an uneducated working man who had entirely misconstrued the nature of her interest in him\u201d. Summoned to the headmistress\u2019s study, she is expelled on the spot for being \u201cfast\u201d.In 1936 the high mistress of St Paul\u2019s declared that she was minded to gather all Miss Brazil\u2019s books and burn themMarjorie\u2019s social naivety \u2013 she \u201chad a vague idea that the army consisted mostly of public school boys\u201d \u2013 is weighed against her lack of judgment and she is eventually restored to the bosom of Brackenfield. From now on, the firm-but-fair headmistress Mrs Morrison suggests, girls should channel their war efforts into sewing bed jackets for soldiers rather than offering to be their friends. Duly warned off heterosexuality, Marjorie develops a passionate attachment to her classmate Chrissie Lang instead. The two teenagers walk arm-in-arm, write each other sentimental notes and promise to \u201cmake love\u201d all evening. Marjorie\u2019s amused classmates conclude that she has \u201cgot it badly\u201d although they can\u2019t really see why: \u201cChrissie can\u2019t pronounce her rs properly.\u201dYou only need to have read a couple of Brazils before to guess how it all ends. Chrissie Lang (\u201ca good old Scottish name\u201d) is in fact Christine Lange, a German spy who has been enrolled at Brackenfield to help her soldier brother escape from a nearby PoW camp. She is last heard of making for the beach where a boat is waiting. There is a silver lining, though, quite apart from the fact that Marjorie will no longer have to spend her evenings embroidering hankies with a wobbly \u201cCL\u201d. The teacher whom the Brackenfield girls have long suspected of being the spy in their midst turns out to be entirely innocent. Miss \u201cAcid Drop\u201d Norton actually has a perfectly good reason for hanging around the local pub talking to funny-sounding foreigners (and it has nothing to do with needing a stiff drink and adult conversation after a long week closeted with the Upper Fourth).It all sounds like good, clean, formulaic fun, so it comes as a shock to learn that, just like Blyton 40 years later, Brazil\u2019s work was bitterly condemned by professional educators. In 1936 the high mistress of St Paul\u2019s, Ethel Strudwick, declared in assembly that she was minded to gather all of Miss Brazil\u2019s books and burn them. It wasn\u2019t the repetitive plotlines and sketchy characterisations that offended her, nor even the vague possibility that St Paul\u2019s might have loosely figured in one of Brazil\u2019s books; it was the terrible language: \u201cRouse up, you old bluebottle, can\u2019t you\u201d; \u201cRight you are, O Queen! It\u2019s a blossomy idea!\u201d \u201cMiss Jones is a stunt, as jinky as you like\u201d, and, the one that got everyone especially riled, \u201cTwiggez-vous?\u201dWhether or not schoolgirls actually spoke like this, or whether they only started to after reading Brazil, remains a moot point. But perhaps what really bothered Strudwick was not so much the silliness of the slang so much as the way it marked early adolescence as a distinct culture, one with its own impenetrable codes and customs. Until the 1880s middle-class girls had been mostly educated at home under the watchful eye of mothers, governesses and elder sisters. But with the coming of academic boarding schools and high schools, young women\u2019s bonds were increasingly with other girls of their own age. Brazil\u2019s books glory in this new complicity, showing loud, boisterous teenagers forming themselves into self-policing groups, untroubled by the distant rumble of prefects and teachers. The girls of St Cyprian\u2019s, St Ronan\u2019s and St Chad\u2019s jump out of windows, play pranks, go awol on cliff tops and tie things to weather vanes. From here it is but a short jump to the dystopian fantasy of the St Trinian\u2019s series, Ronald Searle\u2019s accounts of posh-girl thuggery that were published toe-to-toe with Blyton\u2019s Malory Towers books.Rereading Brazil now, though, it is not her girls\u2019 potential for tribal violence that strikes one so much as their social vulnerability as individuals. Far from being secure in her privilege, a typical Brazil hero is only at school because of some particular bit of luck: perhaps her sister already teaches at the school so she gets a bursary, or her uncle has agreed to pay the fees, or the number on her scholarship exam paper is mixed up with someone else\u2019s. It is the other girls \u2013 usually the not-so-nice ones \u2013 who have a pony at home and an uncle who is a brigadier. And it is precisely because the hero is declassee that she is the prime suspect whenever some bit of transgressive behaviour, usually stealing or snitching, is suspected, a trope that Denise Deegan nailed so brilliantly in 1983 with her smart stage parody of Brazil\u2019s universe, Daisy Pulls It Off.This acute sense that her heroes did not quite belong in the world in which she had placed them was grounded in Brazil\u2019s own experience as the daughter of a Lancashire cotton-mill manager. Far from being at Cheltenham or Roedean, her education was mostly undertaken at cheaper local day schools: \u201cBolton was a penance to artistic minds,\u201d she once recalled with a shudder. This also explains why so many thousands of girls, whose only chance of gaining access to a boarding school was through a job in the kitchens, gulped down Brazil\u2019s books with such passion. \u201cIt has always been the dearest wish of my heart to go to a boarding school,\u201d runs a typical letter to the author, \u201cbut unfortunately we are poor and I had to go to a board-school.\u201d By identifying with a precariously privileged hero, working-class girls were able to spin for themselves a Cinderella narrative in which they were, for a few hours at least, able to attend The Gables, Uplands or Manor House.The way in which Brazil used fairytale devices to resolve her plots \u2013 her books contain far more orphans, baronet uncles and long-lost Stradivariuses than I had remembered \u2013 also explains the recherche names of her heroes. Instead of \u201cDorothy\u201d, \u201cGertrude\u201d or \u201cViolet\u201d, Brazil\u2019s leading ladies are Loveday, Winona, Avelyn, Aldred and Lesbia. Especially Lesbia. It was a name that she recycled, bestowing it on minor characters as well as on the two heroes, Lesbia Carrington (For the School Colours) and Lesbia Ferrars (Loyal to the School), with whom she most closely identified.That doesn\u2019t mean, of course, that Brazil was throwing out coded messages about her own sexuality. Her outward life was one of deep respectability, spent with her unmarried brother and sister in a handsome villa in the centre of Coventry. Her inner life, by all accounts, remained entirely opaque to her. What we can say, though, is that her books are full of girls developing \u201cred hot\u201d pashes on one another, breaking up, sobbing and coming together for a cuddle in bed. All of which was suggestive enough for Philip Larkin, as a young man at Oxford in the 1940s, to write Trouble at Willow Gables, an over-excited pastiche of Brazil in which both staff and girls are oddly forgetful when it comes to wearing knickers.More benign were the various parodies produced by Arthur Marshall, the late, (assumed) gay broadcaster who had a declared passion for the world of Angela Brazil. In his autobiography Marshall explained how he managed to get through the Dunkirk evacuation of 1940: \u201cI chose to imagine that we were all in a vast girls\u2019 school: Headmistress, Miss Gladys Gort; School colours, khaki and black; School motto, Don\u2019t Look Back Or You Might See Something Nasty. All the junior girls were dead nuts on that new and dashing hockey mistress, Miss Brenda Montgomery\u201d \u2013 aka Field Marshall Montgomery.In 1944, when Brazil was coming to the end of her life, the new Education Act furnished able girls from the middling middle classes with a free education at either a direct-grant or grammar school, leaving boarding public schools such as Benenden, the model for Malory Towers, to a financial and social elite. That didn\u2019t stop girls wanting to read about such schools \u2013 Blyton and Brent\u2011Dyer sold extremely well right up to the early 1990s \u2013 but there was a sense that what was being described was a kind of education that had happened a long time ago and far away. Until 1997, that is, when JK Rowling, the comprehensive-educated girl who had grown up with a passion for boarding school fiction, sat down to reimagine Brazil\u2019s universe for a new generation of girls \u2013 and boys.\u2022 This article was amended on 24 February 2015. An earlier version of the photo caption said that the 2002 production was at the Lyric Hammersmith, rather than the Lyric on Shaftesbury Avenue, London W1.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Angela Brazil: dorm feasts and red-hot pashes"},{"date": "2015-02-11T10:55:34Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "It should be the rainy season. Instead Sao Paulo state is experiencing a third consecutive year with soaring temperatures and rainfall patterns well below historic records. The main water reservoirs are operating at their lowest capacity. The Cantareira reservoir system, which serves more than nine million people in the state, is only 5% full. At the Alto Tiet\u00ea reservoir network, which supplies three million people in greater Sao Paulo, water levels are below 15%. Simple calculations indicate that given the current level of consumption versus the predicted raining patterns there is only enough water on the system to last four to six months. That means the water could run out before the next rainy season starts in November. State officials recently announced a potential rationing program of five days without water and two days with, in case the February and March rains do not refill the reservoirs.This extreme climate scenario, combined with a series of management flaws, political negligence and a culture of waste and pollution, is bringing the largest metropolitan region of Brazil to the brink of collapse.Since 2013, after decades of warnings about misguided development policies and destructive land use practices, experts and civil society organisations have been calling for increasingly strong measures to reduce water consumption to keep the minimum secure levels for supply reservoirs. The calls have been ignored by the state government \u2013 the system\u2019s main operator \u2013 and federal and municipal authorities turned a blind eye to the severity of the situation. Related: Desperately seeking solutions to worst drought in decades in Brazil The government took a few small steps in early 2014, such as offering a discount on water bills for people who voluntarily reduced their consumption. It also increased supply from the Billings and Guarapiranga reservoirs, but as these sources receive most of the urban waste from Sao Paulo, the water needs to be carefully tested and treated to be adequate for human consumption, adding to the complexity of securing safe water supply during the drought. The government\u2019s main initiative has been to reduce pressure on the distribution network, so that it pumps less water through the system. As the measure was not officially recognised by leaders or the media, people were unprepared to live without drinkable water for a couple of days when the supply glitches started to happen. Taken by the population as a de facto rationing, the lack of transparency about the times and places affected by pressure reduction caused more problems and increased distrust among Sao Paulo\u2019s citizens.The recovery measures adopted so far account for a 22% reduction on the water volume extracted from reservoirs. Experts, however, advise that the reduction should be around 50% to sustain the minimal conditions needed for the system. Many might be surprised that such a scenario is happening in a tropical country famous for its abundance of natural resources, crossed by hundreds of rivers and with plenty of underground water. But for regional environmentalists and experts it comes as no surprise. They have been raising the alarm on water pollution and campaigning for watershed protection and safety standards since the 1980s. But scientific and technical reports, advocacy measures and pressures on companies were lost among the apparently unstoppable powers of real estate, agriculture and industry development. Urban land use, extensive monocultures and illegal occupation of watersheds have damaged and polluted the water production areas, jeopardising their capacity to survive and recover from extended dry seasons. Related: Flooding in Nepal: will the economy survive the deluge? National development policies strongly focus on macro-infrastructure plans such as large hydrodams, ports and roads, the expansion of agribusiness into the Amazon, and the predatory mining industry. These sustain the exports of soya, beef and pig iron while being responsible for the majority of Brazilian greenhouse gas emissions. More and more scientific studies show the link between deforestation in the north and the reduction of rainfall in the southeast, presenting further evidence of how the effects of climate change are already upon us.Despite the relative gains in poverty reduction over the last decade, the imminent collapse of the water supply system of the richest region in Brazil shows that basic development structures have yet to be addressed and fundamental human rights have yet to be secured in this country. Millions of people from the poorest communities have entered the consumer market, but their access to housing, sanitation, clean water, citizen security and transport remain unguarded. This is where an old clich\u00e9 becomes real: major opportunities lie within this crisis. The transcending effect of the water shortage creates a space for unity and coordination among Brazilian social movements. It offers the chance for environmental organisations to link deforestation with urban issues, to communicate that social justice will not be achieved as long as the priority is given to an unequal and unsustainable development model. Moreover, the urgency and scale of the water crisis is likely to bring NGOs and labour unions closer to the organic and youth protests that drew hundreds of thousands of people to the streets in 2013. The time and place for a solid narrative that links poverty reduction to ecological protection seems finally to have arrived.In October 2014, more than 40 NGOs, experts, independent collectives and social movements joined forces to launch the Alliance for Water, a network that is monitoring the government\u2019s response to the crisis and presenting positive solutions for surviving the probable collapse. The alliance aims to collaborate to build a new culture of water use and conservation in Sao Paulo and is producing a series of technical reports and events to qualify the debate among a wide range stakeholders, from specialists to politicians to social movements and grassroots groups.  Related: Why isn't Brazil exploiting its amazing wind capacity? Today more than 13 million inhabitants of Sao Paulo state find themselves on the edge of an unprecedented public calamity. The absence of political leadership and government transparency fuels panic and fear. Until now, the government has not outlined a clear emergency plan to guarantee minimum water supplies for essential services such as hospitals, police stations and prisons, and for the poorest people who have no structure to store or buy mineral water. A chaotic scenario might take place where, faced with a severe and sustained lack of water, many communities will resort to polluted sources or even violence, raising significant concerns over safety and health.Civil society has a pivotal role to play by challenging development models, establishing social control over emergency plans, securing human rights and promoting the values of ethics and solidarity. As is usual in calamity situations, the most vulnerable, poorest communities are likely to pay the highest price with their health and their dignity. These people need to know they can count on organised civil society to support them across the turbulent times that lie ahead. Marussia Whately is the programme director and Rebeca Lerer is the communications coordinator for the Alliance for Water network. Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow@GuardianGDP on Twitter. ", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Water", "Drought", "Brazil", "Climate change", "Access to water", "Pollution", "Cities and development", "Cities"], "title": "Brazil drought: water rationing alone won't save Sao Paulo"},{"date": "2015-05-22T13:58:17Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I wrote last summer about our plan to run citizen reporting programmes in different parts of the world. The aim is to train marginalised people and communities to bring forth burning issues and stories that, perhaps, the national and international media are overlooking. In June we visited South Africa, and October India. Now we\u2019ve just returned from Brazil.Twenty people came from all parts of the country to take part in a two-day workshop. The training covered storytelling, evidence-finding, verification, ethics, social media and the ways participants can connect to us directly through digital platforms such as GuardianWitness.The stories they brought in were extraordinary, covering indigenous rights in the Amazon, Olympic relocations, young people in the favelas, sex workers during the World Cup, and life for Bolivian and Syrian migrants. One of our trained citizen reporters, Luis Adorno, collaborated with our Latin America correspondent Jon Watts on a murder story in Sao Paulo. We plan to use their work as part of a big piece on violence across Brazil. \u2018A Year in a Favela\u2019 will chart the period immediately before the Olympics, with our newly trained citizen reporters in Mar\u00e9, Alem\u00e3o and Rocinha delivering monthly updates.We have also commissioned a \u2018How I Go to School\u2019 video series with children from rural areas in Brazil. Several participants said education was their priority, especially the problems that many children face getting to school. One landless worker told us of students who had to walk for two hours across a river after their old school was shut down. Favela residents described long bus journeys even to reach city schools. Indigenous groups spoke of the challenges faced by children who have to go by boat through the forest.Our correspondent is in touch with citizen reporter Tonico Benites in order to plan a visit to Guarani Kaoiwa for a feature article about Brazil\u2019s other indigenous people, and how they are not the photogenic jungle-dwellers of the world\u2019s imagination, but live in much worse conditions. Finally - for now - we also commissioned an opinion piece about the threat posed by miners and loggers to the village of Itaituba.These workshops showed us that there is still a great deal out there, sadly, which the national and international media are not covering. You just have to let people tell their stories...", "tags": ["Global development", "Environmental sustainability", "Society", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Uncovering unheard voices of Brazil..."},{"date": "2015-05-22T13:58:17Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I wrote last summer about our plan to run citizen reporting programmes in different parts of the world. The aim is to train marginalised people and communities to bring forth burning issues and stories that, perhaps, the national and international media are overlooking. In June we visited South Africa, and October India. Now we\u2019ve just returned from Brazil.Twenty people came from all parts of the country to take part in a two-day workshop. The training covered storytelling, evidence-finding, verification, ethics, social media and the ways participants can connect to us directly through digital platforms such as GuardianWitness.The stories they brought in were extraordinary, covering indigenous rights in the Amazon, Olympic relocations, young people in the favelas, sex workers during the World Cup, and life for Bolivian and Syrian migrants. One of our trained citizen reporters, Luis Adorno, collaborated with our Latin America correspondent Jon Watts on a murder story in Sao Paulo. We plan to use their work as part of a big piece on violence across Brazil. \u2018A Year in a Favela\u2019 will chart the period immediately before the Olympics, with our newly trained citizen reporters in Mar\u00e9, Alem\u00e3o and Rocinha delivering monthly updates.We have also commissioned a \u2018How I Go to School\u2019 video series with children from rural areas in Brazil. Several participants said education was their priority, especially the problems that many children face getting to school. One landless worker told us of students who had to walk for two hours across a river after their old school was shut down. Favela residents described long bus journeys even to reach city schools. Indigenous groups spoke of the challenges faced by children who have to go by boat through the forest.Our correspondent is in touch with citizen reporter Tonico Benites in order to plan a visit to Guarani Kaoiwa for a feature article about Brazil\u2019s other indigenous people, and how they are not the photogenic jungle-dwellers of the world\u2019s imagination, but live in much worse conditions. Finally - for now - we also commissioned an opinion piece about the threat posed by miners and loggers to the village of Itaituba.These workshops showed us that there is still a great deal out there, sadly, which the national and international media are not covering. You just have to let people tell their stories...", "tags": ["Global development", "Environmental sustainability", "Society", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Uncovering unheard voices of Brazil..."},{"date": "2015-05-14T17:37:31Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Food retailers such as McDonald\u2019s, Krispy Kreme, Dunkin Donuts, as well as agribusinesses like Cargill, are among the big companies to recently make zero-deforestation pledges. But do these commitments achieve anything other than PR for food companies? New research indicates they might.A study published Tuesday in the journal Conservation Letters says that public agreements made by beef suppliers in Brazilhave had a real impact on rancher and slaughterhouse behavior in the Amazon. A team led by Holly Gibbs of the University of Wisconsin-Madison observed data on land use in the state of Par\u00e1 before and after a 2009 agreement by major meatpacking companies to remove deforestation from their supply chain. The researchers found that the deforestation rate among ranch owners they studied has since been cut in half. The agreement, signed by meatpacking companies JBS-Friboi, Minerva, Marfrig and Bertin, imposed a moratorium on buying cattle linked to deforestation in Brazil, where nearly two-thirds of deforested land is used as cattle pasture. The meatpacking companies also agreed to monitor their supply chain and only purchase cattle from farms in Brazil\u2019s environmental registry, Cadastro Ambiental Rural (CAR). They also refused to buy from cattle farms that had recently cleared forest land or in any way employed slave labor.Gibbs and her team of researchers tracked the land use of farms working with JBS-Friboi \u2013 the world\u2019s largest meat packing company - between 2008 and 2013. They used satellite data to monitor deforestation, gathere public data on land registration and survey cattle ranchers on their behavior.Before the agreement, 40% of JBS-Friboi\u2019s direct suppliers were linked to recent deforestation. By 2013, the number had fallen to less than 4%. Related: McDonald's to axe deforestation from its global supply chain Cattle rearing in Brazil is a complex process in which cattle are calved, reared and fattened in different locations before arriving at slaughterhouses. Meatpacking companies that supply beef to food giants such as McDonald\u2019s are only one stop in a supply-chain that relies on an assortment of cattle suppliers.This makes tracing cattle and ensuring that it is entirely deforestation-free nearly impossible. However, the agreement quickly changed the behavior of all major suppliers to JBS-Friboi, the researchers found.\u201cWe see that the ranchers that continue to sell to JBS after the agreement reduced their deforestation rates dramatically and had much lower deforestation rates than properties that sold before the agreement,\u201d Gibbs says. Most importantly, these changes happened in a matter of months. \u201cThis is in sharp contrast to things like the Brazilian forest code,\u201d says Gibbs, referring to a controversial piece of legislation that regulates forest reserves, \u201cwhich takes years to effectively implement\u201d.The beef agreement was not the first major anti-deforestation pledge by corporations. A similar agreement, the Amazon Soy Moratorium, signed by major food corporations in 2006, has also had success in fighting deforestation. The voluntary pledge to stop buying soy linked to deforestationwas extended a third time, to mid-2016, late last year.  Related: Soy may be next on the no-deforestation hit list, but policies will take time to make an impact Researcher Holly Gibbs says these sorts of agreements are growing in popularity. Large businesses concerned about international market access have incentive to avoid the increasingly bad publicity tied to habitat destruction. In response to public pressure, Gibbs says, \u201cWe see that the agribusiness powerhouses like ADM (Archer Daniels Midland) and McDonald\u2019s are promising to delink agricultural production from tropical deforestation.\u201d \u201cThere are about 95 slaughterhouses in the legal Amazon,\u201d Gibbs says, \u201cand about 65 of them have signed some type of zero-deforestation commitment, but many of them still don\u2019t have monitoring systems.\u201dHowever, there are limitations to what these agreements can achieve. The voluntary system is easy to get around, the researchers found. Some of the ranchers Gibbs\u2019 team spoke to explained that they could go \u201cright past JBS slaughterhouse and sell to their neighboring slaughterhouse\u201d. Monitoring only direct sales to meatpacking companies leaves the supply chain open to cattle laundering, where cattle may be reared in deforested land but sold to other compliant farms before they arrive at slaughterhouses.  Related: Apple is protecting forests by buying them up But Gibbs is optimistic. The pledge has not seemed to hurt the beef market or negatively affect the meatpacking business. JBS-Friboi, which operated nine slaughterhouses in 2009, has ramped up operations to 32 in 2013, four years after the agreement. The company did not pay higher prices to compliant ranch owners. While Gibbs says there has been a great deal of momentum towards putting monitoring systems in place, agribusinesses, consumers and activists should continue to demand zero deforestation in the supply chain. \u201cThere are a lot of positive signs that with continued investment in these systems, it could really pay dividends for forest conservation,\u201d Gibbs says. \u201cBut we certainly need more work.\u201dThe role of business in development hub is funded by Business Call to Action. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cbrought to you by\u201d. Find out more here.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Food", "Deforestation", "McDonald's", "Walmart", "Brazil", "Environment", "Business", "Ethical business", "Americas", "Conservation", "Trees and forests", "World news"], "title": "Brazil beef industry pledges cut Amazon deforestation"},{"date": "2015-05-22T13:58:17Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I wrote last summer about our plan to run citizen reporting programmes in different parts of the world. The aim is to train marginalised people and communities to bring forth burning issues and stories that, perhaps, the national and international media are overlooking. In June we visited South Africa, and October India. Now we\u2019ve just returned from Brazil.Twenty people came from all parts of the country to take part in a two-day workshop. The training covered storytelling, evidence-finding, verification, ethics, social media and the ways participants can connect to us directly through digital platforms such as GuardianWitness.The stories they brought in were extraordinary, covering indigenous rights in the Amazon, Olympic relocations, young people in the favelas, sex workers during the World Cup, and life for Bolivian and Syrian migrants. One of our trained citizen reporters, Luis Adorno, collaborated with our Latin America correspondent Jon Watts on a murder story in Sao Paulo. We plan to use their work as part of a big piece on violence across Brazil. \u2018A Year in a Favela\u2019 will chart the period immediately before the Olympics, with our newly trained citizen reporters in Mar\u00e9, Alem\u00e3o and Rocinha delivering monthly updates.We have also commissioned a \u2018How I Go to School\u2019 video series with children from rural areas in Brazil. Several participants said education was their priority, especially the problems that many children face getting to school. One landless worker told us of students who had to walk for two hours across a river after their old school was shut down. Favela residents described long bus journeys even to reach city schools. Indigenous groups spoke of the challenges faced by children who have to go by boat through the forest.Our correspondent is in touch with citizen reporter Tonico Benites in order to plan a visit to Guarani Kaoiwa for a feature article about Brazil\u2019s other indigenous people, and how they are not the photogenic jungle-dwellers of the world\u2019s imagination, but live in much worse conditions. Finally - for now - we also commissioned an opinion piece about the threat posed by miners and loggers to the village of Itaituba.These workshops showed us that there is still a great deal out there, sadly, which the national and international media are not covering. You just have to let people tell their stories...", "tags": ["Global development", "Environmental sustainability", "Society", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Uncovering unheard voices of Brazil..."},{"date": "2015-05-14T17:37:31Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Food retailers such as McDonald\u2019s, Krispy Kreme, Dunkin Donuts, as well as agribusinesses like Cargill, are among the big companies to recently make zero-deforestation pledges. But do these commitments achieve anything other than PR for food companies? New research indicates they might.A study published Tuesday in the journal Conservation Letters says that public agreements made by beef suppliers in Brazilhave had a real impact on rancher and slaughterhouse behavior in the Amazon. A team led by Holly Gibbs of the University of Wisconsin-Madison observed data on land use in the state of Par\u00e1 before and after a 2009 agreement by major meatpacking companies to remove deforestation from their supply chain. The researchers found that the deforestation rate among ranch owners they studied has since been cut in half. The agreement, signed by meatpacking companies JBS-Friboi, Minerva, Marfrig and Bertin, imposed a moratorium on buying cattle linked to deforestation in Brazil, where nearly two-thirds of deforested land is used as cattle pasture. The meatpacking companies also agreed to monitor their supply chain and only purchase cattle from farms in Brazil\u2019s environmental registry, Cadastro Ambiental Rural (CAR). They also refused to buy from cattle farms that had recently cleared forest land or in any way employed slave labor.Gibbs and her team of researchers tracked the land use of farms working with JBS-Friboi \u2013 the world\u2019s largest meat packing company - between 2008 and 2013. They used satellite data to monitor deforestation, gathere public data on land registration and survey cattle ranchers on their behavior.Before the agreement, 40% of JBS-Friboi\u2019s direct suppliers were linked to recent deforestation. By 2013, the number had fallen to less than 4%. Related: McDonald's to axe deforestation from its global supply chain Cattle rearing in Brazil is a complex process in which cattle are calved, reared and fattened in different locations before arriving at slaughterhouses. Meatpacking companies that supply beef to food giants such as McDonald\u2019s are only one stop in a supply-chain that relies on an assortment of cattle suppliers.This makes tracing cattle and ensuring that it is entirely deforestation-free nearly impossible. However, the agreement quickly changed the behavior of all major suppliers to JBS-Friboi, the researchers found.\u201cWe see that the ranchers that continue to sell to JBS after the agreement reduced their deforestation rates dramatically and had much lower deforestation rates than properties that sold before the agreement,\u201d Gibbs says. Most importantly, these changes happened in a matter of months. \u201cThis is in sharp contrast to things like the Brazilian forest code,\u201d says Gibbs, referring to a controversial piece of legislation that regulates forest reserves, \u201cwhich takes years to effectively implement\u201d.The beef agreement was not the first major anti-deforestation pledge by corporations. A similar agreement, the Amazon Soy Moratorium, signed by major food corporations in 2006, has also had success in fighting deforestation. The voluntary pledge to stop buying soy linked to deforestationwas extended a third time, to mid-2016, late last year.  Related: Soy may be next on the no-deforestation hit list, but policies will take time to make an impact Researcher Holly Gibbs says these sorts of agreements are growing in popularity. Large businesses concerned about international market access have incentive to avoid the increasingly bad publicity tied to habitat destruction. In response to public pressure, Gibbs says, \u201cWe see that the agribusiness powerhouses like ADM (Archer Daniels Midland) and McDonald\u2019s are promising to delink agricultural production from tropical deforestation.\u201d \u201cThere are about 95 slaughterhouses in the legal Amazon,\u201d Gibbs says, \u201cand about 65 of them have signed some type of zero-deforestation commitment, but many of them still don\u2019t have monitoring systems.\u201dHowever, there are limitations to what these agreements can achieve. The voluntary system is easy to get around, the researchers found. Some of the ranchers Gibbs\u2019 team spoke to explained that they could go \u201cright past JBS slaughterhouse and sell to their neighboring slaughterhouse\u201d. Monitoring only direct sales to meatpacking companies leaves the supply chain open to cattle laundering, where cattle may be reared in deforested land but sold to other compliant farms before they arrive at slaughterhouses.  Related: Apple is protecting forests by buying them up But Gibbs is optimistic. The pledge has not seemed to hurt the beef market or negatively affect the meatpacking business. JBS-Friboi, which operated nine slaughterhouses in 2009, has ramped up operations to 32 in 2013, four years after the agreement. The company did not pay higher prices to compliant ranch owners. While Gibbs says there has been a great deal of momentum towards putting monitoring systems in place, agribusinesses, consumers and activists should continue to demand zero deforestation in the supply chain. \u201cThere are a lot of positive signs that with continued investment in these systems, it could really pay dividends for forest conservation,\u201d Gibbs says. \u201cBut we certainly need more work.\u201dThe role of business in development hub is funded by Business Call to Action. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cbrought to you by\u201d. Find out more here.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Food", "Deforestation", "McDonald's", "Walmart", "Brazil", "Environment", "Business", "Ethical business", "Americas", "Conservation", "Trees and forests", "World news"], "title": "Brazil beef industry pledges cut Amazon deforestation"},{"date": "2015-06-30T17:49:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Barack Obama and Dilma Rousseff put climate change at the top of their agenda at their bilateral meeting on Tuesday, with the US and Brazil agreeing to obtain up to 20% of their electricity from renewable power by 2030.Brazil also committed to restoring up to 12m hectares of forest \u2013 an area about the size of England or Pennsylvania \u2013 in another attempt to reduce the carbon pollution that causes climate change.The White House said the initiatives were part of a new US-Brazil climate partnership, loosely modelled on the historic US-China agreement reached during Obama\u2019s visit to Beijing last November, intended to build momentum for a global deal to fight climate change in Paris at the end of the year.\u201cFollowing progress during my trips to China and India, this shows that the world\u2019s major economies can begin to transcend some of the old divides and work together to confront the common challenge that we face,\u201d said Obama at a joint press conference with his Brazilian counterpart. Rousseff also heralded the agreement as a highlight of her trip, claiming it would help progress towards a global emissions reductions agreement at upcoming talks in Paris.\u201cClimate change is one of the central challenges of the 21st century,\u201d she said. \u201cAnd we have one important objective, which is, number one, to ensure that the energy mix in our two countries will have a substantial share of renewable sources of energy.\u201cAs countries that are as vast as continents, we have this very important greenhouse gas emissions target,\u201d added Rousseff. \u201cWe attach a great deal of importance to reducing [deforestation].. and we also wish to turn the page and engage in a clear-cut reforestation-oriented policy.\u201dThe pledge will require the US to triple its production of wind and solar power and other renewable energies. Brazil will need to double its production of clean energy. The figures do not include hydro power.\u201cThis is a big deal,\u201d Brian Deese, the White House climate adviser, told a call with reporters.He said putting climate change at the centre of the US-Brazil relationship would help drive action on the issue. \u201cWe are shining a spotlight on the issues and elevating the conversation around them,\u201d he said.Rich and poor countries alike have been putting forth their commitments, known as nationally determined contributions, to reduce emissions as part of the treaty, which world leaders hope to finalise later this year in Paris. Brazil also plans to expand renewable energy sources other than hydropower to between 28% and 33% of its total energy mix by 2030.And in the electricity sector, the US and Brazil jointly announced intentions to increase their share of renewable, non-hydropower sources to 20% by 2030. Deese said boosting renewables that high in the US would be dependent on controversial power plant emission limits that the Obama administration has proposed.\u201cWe believe that this is an ambitious target, but one that is actually achievable and will create new low-cost opportunities for the American economy,\u201d Deese said. \u201cTo achieve it, we\u2019re going to have to continue to hit our marks in implementing the regulations we\u2019ve identified to date.\u201d Related: Brazil's gamble on deep water oil The US has already announced its full commitment to the climate treaty: a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions of up to 28% by 2025, compared with 2005 levels. But a key sticking point in the climate treaty has been whether developing countries like Brazil will be willing to make substantial contributions. Poorer nations have balked, arguing that industrialised nations that have polluted more historically bear more of the responsibility for curbing climate change.The announcement comes on the second day of Rousseff\u2019s visit to Washington, where she met with Obama in the Oval Office on Tuesday morning.In their visit, Obama and Rousseff have been working to show they have moved beyond tensions sparked by the revelation nearly two years ago that the US was spying on Rousseff. She cancelled a planned state visit in response. Officials in both countries say neither leader is interested in rehashing the spying issues this week and instead want to focus on ways to deepen cooperation.The Associated Press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Brazil", "Obama administration", "Dilma Rousseff", "Deforestation", "World news", "US news", "Trees and forests", "Environment", "Conservation", "Americas", "Gas", "Energy", "Barack Obama", "Climate change"], "title": "Brazil announces massive reforestation and renewable energy plan with US"},{"date": "2015-05-22T13:58:17Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I wrote last summer about our plan to run citizen reporting programmes in different parts of the world. The aim is to train marginalised people and communities to bring forth burning issues and stories that, perhaps, the national and international media are overlooking. In June we visited South Africa, and October India. Now we\u2019ve just returned from Brazil.Twenty people came from all parts of the country to take part in a two-day workshop. The training covered storytelling, evidence-finding, verification, ethics, social media and the ways participants can connect to us directly through digital platforms such as GuardianWitness.The stories they brought in were extraordinary, covering indigenous rights in the Amazon, Olympic relocations, young people in the favelas, sex workers during the World Cup, and life for Bolivian and Syrian migrants. One of our trained citizen reporters, Luis Adorno, collaborated with our Latin America correspondent Jon Watts on a murder story in Sao Paulo. We plan to use their work as part of a big piece on violence across Brazil. \u2018A Year in a Favela\u2019 will chart the period immediately before the Olympics, with our newly trained citizen reporters in Mar\u00e9, Alem\u00e3o and Rocinha delivering monthly updates.We have also commissioned a \u2018How I Go to School\u2019 video series with children from rural areas in Brazil. Several participants said education was their priority, especially the problems that many children face getting to school. One landless worker told us of students who had to walk for two hours across a river after their old school was shut down. Favela residents described long bus journeys even to reach city schools. Indigenous groups spoke of the challenges faced by children who have to go by boat through the forest.Our correspondent is in touch with citizen reporter Tonico Benites in order to plan a visit to Guarani Kaoiwa for a feature article about Brazil\u2019s other indigenous people, and how they are not the photogenic jungle-dwellers of the world\u2019s imagination, but live in much worse conditions. Finally - for now - we also commissioned an opinion piece about the threat posed by miners and loggers to the village of Itaituba.These workshops showed us that there is still a great deal out there, sadly, which the national and international media are not covering. You just have to let people tell their stories...", "tags": ["Global development", "Environmental sustainability", "Society", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Uncovering unheard voices of Brazil..."},{"date": "2015-05-14T17:37:31Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Food retailers such as McDonald\u2019s, Krispy Kreme, Dunkin Donuts, as well as agribusinesses like Cargill, are among the big companies to recently make zero-deforestation pledges. But do these commitments achieve anything other than PR for food companies? New research indicates they might.A study published Tuesday in the journal Conservation Letters says that public agreements made by beef suppliers in Brazilhave had a real impact on rancher and slaughterhouse behavior in the Amazon. A team led by Holly Gibbs of the University of Wisconsin-Madison observed data on land use in the state of Par\u00e1 before and after a 2009 agreement by major meatpacking companies to remove deforestation from their supply chain. The researchers found that the deforestation rate among ranch owners they studied has since been cut in half. The agreement, signed by meatpacking companies JBS-Friboi, Minerva, Marfrig and Bertin, imposed a moratorium on buying cattle linked to deforestation in Brazil, where nearly two-thirds of deforested land is used as cattle pasture. The meatpacking companies also agreed to monitor their supply chain and only purchase cattle from farms in Brazil\u2019s environmental registry, Cadastro Ambiental Rural (CAR). They also refused to buy from cattle farms that had recently cleared forest land or in any way employed slave labor.Gibbs and her team of researchers tracked the land use of farms working with JBS-Friboi \u2013 the world\u2019s largest meat packing company - between 2008 and 2013. They used satellite data to monitor deforestation, gathere public data on land registration and survey cattle ranchers on their behavior.Before the agreement, 40% of JBS-Friboi\u2019s direct suppliers were linked to recent deforestation. By 2013, the number had fallen to less than 4%. Related: McDonald's to axe deforestation from its global supply chain Cattle rearing in Brazil is a complex process in which cattle are calved, reared and fattened in different locations before arriving at slaughterhouses. Meatpacking companies that supply beef to food giants such as McDonald\u2019s are only one stop in a supply-chain that relies on an assortment of cattle suppliers.This makes tracing cattle and ensuring that it is entirely deforestation-free nearly impossible. However, the agreement quickly changed the behavior of all major suppliers to JBS-Friboi, the researchers found.\u201cWe see that the ranchers that continue to sell to JBS after the agreement reduced their deforestation rates dramatically and had much lower deforestation rates than properties that sold before the agreement,\u201d Gibbs says. Most importantly, these changes happened in a matter of months. \u201cThis is in sharp contrast to things like the Brazilian forest code,\u201d says Gibbs, referring to a controversial piece of legislation that regulates forest reserves, \u201cwhich takes years to effectively implement\u201d.The beef agreement was not the first major anti-deforestation pledge by corporations. A similar agreement, the Amazon Soy Moratorium, signed by major food corporations in 2006, has also had success in fighting deforestation. The voluntary pledge to stop buying soy linked to deforestationwas extended a third time, to mid-2016, late last year.  Related: Soy may be next on the no-deforestation hit list, but policies will take time to make an impact Researcher Holly Gibbs says these sorts of agreements are growing in popularity. Large businesses concerned about international market access have incentive to avoid the increasingly bad publicity tied to habitat destruction. In response to public pressure, Gibbs says, \u201cWe see that the agribusiness powerhouses like ADM (Archer Daniels Midland) and McDonald\u2019s are promising to delink agricultural production from tropical deforestation.\u201d \u201cThere are about 95 slaughterhouses in the legal Amazon,\u201d Gibbs says, \u201cand about 65 of them have signed some type of zero-deforestation commitment, but many of them still don\u2019t have monitoring systems.\u201dHowever, there are limitations to what these agreements can achieve. The voluntary system is easy to get around, the researchers found. Some of the ranchers Gibbs\u2019 team spoke to explained that they could go \u201cright past JBS slaughterhouse and sell to their neighboring slaughterhouse\u201d. Monitoring only direct sales to meatpacking companies leaves the supply chain open to cattle laundering, where cattle may be reared in deforested land but sold to other compliant farms before they arrive at slaughterhouses.  Related: Apple is protecting forests by buying them up But Gibbs is optimistic. The pledge has not seemed to hurt the beef market or negatively affect the meatpacking business. JBS-Friboi, which operated nine slaughterhouses in 2009, has ramped up operations to 32 in 2013, four years after the agreement. The company did not pay higher prices to compliant ranch owners. While Gibbs says there has been a great deal of momentum towards putting monitoring systems in place, agribusinesses, consumers and activists should continue to demand zero deforestation in the supply chain. \u201cThere are a lot of positive signs that with continued investment in these systems, it could really pay dividends for forest conservation,\u201d Gibbs says. \u201cBut we certainly need more work.\u201dThe role of business in development hub is funded by Business Call to Action. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cbrought to you by\u201d. Find out more here.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Food", "Deforestation", "McDonald's", "Walmart", "Brazil", "Environment", "Business", "Ethical business", "Americas", "Conservation", "Trees and forests", "World news"], "title": "Brazil beef industry pledges cut Amazon deforestation"},{"date": "2015-06-30T17:49:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Barack Obama and Dilma Rousseff put climate change at the top of their agenda at their bilateral meeting on Tuesday, with the US and Brazil agreeing to obtain up to 20% of their electricity from renewable power by 2030.Brazil also committed to restoring up to 12m hectares of forest \u2013 an area about the size of England or Pennsylvania \u2013 in another attempt to reduce the carbon pollution that causes climate change.The White House said the initiatives were part of a new US-Brazil climate partnership, loosely modelled on the historic US-China agreement reached during Obama\u2019s visit to Beijing last November, intended to build momentum for a global deal to fight climate change in Paris at the end of the year.\u201cFollowing progress during my trips to China and India, this shows that the world\u2019s major economies can begin to transcend some of the old divides and work together to confront the common challenge that we face,\u201d said Obama at a joint press conference with his Brazilian counterpart. Rousseff also heralded the agreement as a highlight of her trip, claiming it would help progress towards a global emissions reductions agreement at upcoming talks in Paris.\u201cClimate change is one of the central challenges of the 21st century,\u201d she said. \u201cAnd we have one important objective, which is, number one, to ensure that the energy mix in our two countries will have a substantial share of renewable sources of energy.\u201cAs countries that are as vast as continents, we have this very important greenhouse gas emissions target,\u201d added Rousseff. \u201cWe attach a great deal of importance to reducing [deforestation].. and we also wish to turn the page and engage in a clear-cut reforestation-oriented policy.\u201dThe pledge will require the US to triple its production of wind and solar power and other renewable energies. Brazil will need to double its production of clean energy. The figures do not include hydro power.\u201cThis is a big deal,\u201d Brian Deese, the White House climate adviser, told a call with reporters.He said putting climate change at the centre of the US-Brazil relationship would help drive action on the issue. \u201cWe are shining a spotlight on the issues and elevating the conversation around them,\u201d he said.Rich and poor countries alike have been putting forth their commitments, known as nationally determined contributions, to reduce emissions as part of the treaty, which world leaders hope to finalise later this year in Paris. Brazil also plans to expand renewable energy sources other than hydropower to between 28% and 33% of its total energy mix by 2030.And in the electricity sector, the US and Brazil jointly announced intentions to increase their share of renewable, non-hydropower sources to 20% by 2030. Deese said boosting renewables that high in the US would be dependent on controversial power plant emission limits that the Obama administration has proposed.\u201cWe believe that this is an ambitious target, but one that is actually achievable and will create new low-cost opportunities for the American economy,\u201d Deese said. \u201cTo achieve it, we\u2019re going to have to continue to hit our marks in implementing the regulations we\u2019ve identified to date.\u201d Related: Brazil's gamble on deep water oil The US has already announced its full commitment to the climate treaty: a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions of up to 28% by 2025, compared with 2005 levels. But a key sticking point in the climate treaty has been whether developing countries like Brazil will be willing to make substantial contributions. Poorer nations have balked, arguing that industrialised nations that have polluted more historically bear more of the responsibility for curbing climate change.The announcement comes on the second day of Rousseff\u2019s visit to Washington, where she met with Obama in the Oval Office on Tuesday morning.In their visit, Obama and Rousseff have been working to show they have moved beyond tensions sparked by the revelation nearly two years ago that the US was spying on Rousseff. She cancelled a planned state visit in response. Officials in both countries say neither leader is interested in rehashing the spying issues this week and instead want to focus on ways to deepen cooperation.The Associated Press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Brazil", "Obama administration", "Dilma Rousseff", "Deforestation", "World news", "US news", "Trees and forests", "Environment", "Conservation", "Americas", "Gas", "Energy", "Barack Obama", "Climate change"], "title": "Brazil announces massive reforestation and renewable energy plan with US"},{"date": "2015-06-16T11:16:46Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Last July, Patricia fatally stabbed a female relative of her then-partner in a confrontation, provoked by what she described as continuous, poisonous innuendo. \u201cI couldn\u2019t stand it any more,\u201d she said. \u201cI took the life of another person.\u201d She was just 17.A heated debate over whether teenagers who commit violent crimes can be rehabilitated, or should be tried as adults and incarcerated in the country\u2019s packed and dangerous prisons, has split Brazil. High-profile violent crimes involving adolescents have inflamed the issue and polarised opinion around a controversial measure in congress to lower the age of criminal responsibility from 18 to 16. A vote is planned this month.Elisa Rodrigues, director of the Aldaci Barbosa Mota youth detention centre in Fortaleza where Patricia \u2013 whose name has been changed for legal reasons \u2013 is jailed, said Patricia understands the damage she caused and is suffering with the separation from her two-year-old son, Nicolas.\u201cThe person she killed had a serious involvement in drugs,\u201d Rodrigues said.Reducing the age of penal majority will not resolve the problem of juvenile delinquencyAlthough economic growth in Ceara, a state in Brazil\u2019s north-east, outperforms that of the country as a whole, murder rates in Fortaleza more than doubled in the 10 years ending in 2012, reaching 76.8 per 100,000 people, according to the Violence Map produced by the Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences. Fortaleza was listed as the eighth-most violent city in the world in 2014 in a report by Security, Justice and Peace, a Mexican nongovernmental organisation.Under current Brazilian law, teenage offenders like Patricia are detained for a maximum of three years at \u201ceducational centres\u201d to be \u201cre-socialised\u201d.\u201cNo one can change what has passed. But I can change my tomorrow,\u201d said Patricia, now 18, who takes academic, school, beauty and dance classes. \u201cI can become a better person.\u201dIn an April poll by the Datafolha polling institute, 87% of respondents supported the proposal to reduce the age of criminal majority. Pepper spray was used on protesters demonstrating against it in congress last week. \u201cOur primitive leftists think that murder is the eve of redemption,\u201d rightwing columnist Reinaldo Azevedo wrote in the Folha de S Paulo newspaper.Opponents counter that throwing teenagers into Brazil\u2019s notoriously brutal and overcrowded adult prisons, where criminal gangs rule, riots are common and decapitations are not unheard of, is no solution \u2013 even if convicted adolescents serve time in separate prisons or units.\u201cReducing the age of penal majority will not resolve the problem of juvenile delinquency,\u201d President Dilma Rousseff wrote on her Facebook page in April. Her government may support a counterproposal to increase the maximum adolescent detention to 10 years.Black-clad police Swat teams patrol Fortaleza streets in groups of four: three ride motorbikes, and one with an automatic rifle rides on the back of one of the bikes. On a recent afternoon they arrested two teenage boys on a motorbike who had just held up a motorcycle shop.In Ceara, about 31% of violent crimes are committed by adolescentsThe battered .38-caliber revolver used in the holdup was dropped on to officer Rachel Moreira\u2019s desk at the city\u2019s Child and Adolescent Police Station. \u201cThe most everyday infractions are robberies with the use of weapons,\u201d she said, locking it in a filing cabinet.She said that reducing the penal age alone would not have an impact on crime levels and that wider changes to the law are needed. \u201cThese people of 16, 17 years are aware of the crime,\u201d countered her deputy, officer Emerson de Sousa, who supports the age reduction. Soldier Xavier, one of the arresting officers, said that more education, not reduction, is what\u2019s needed.In Ceara, about 31% of violent crimes are committed by adolescents, the Folha de S Paulo newspaper calculated from state government figures. \u201cThe motivation is drugs,\u201d said Manuel Cl\u00edstenes, chief judge at Fortaleza\u2019s childhood and juvenile court.Brazil\u2019s crack cocaine epidemic has hit Fortaleza hard. Marijuana is cheap and widely used. Adulterated cocaine has flooded poorer neighbourhoods. Offenders are generally from the lowest social classes. \u201cThere is always the criteria of [abandonment]. Rarely does an individual come who has a mother and father, from the middle class,\u201d Cl\u00edstenes said.Casa do Menor is a nongovernmental organisation that houses teenage boys with drug problems in one of its centres in Ceara. Pablo, 12, whose name has been changed for legal reasons, was its only resident on a recent morning. He said his mother, a crack addict, had died with a \u201clung full of ashes, sick\u201d. She was pregnant.\u201cThe majority of my family is of this world,\u201d he said. \u201cFor someone to enter is easy, you can go in, you can buy drugs. But to get out? You stay.\u201dPablo had lived on the street, dealt drugs, and used a knife and gun in assaults at a Fortaleza beach, he said. Now he wanted to clean up. \u201cI cried when I came here,\u201d he said. \u201cEveryone received me well.\u201dThe Rev Renato Chiera, an Italian priest, founded Casa do Menor in Nova Iguacu, near Rio de Janeiro, in 1986 to shelter local homeless children threatened by vigilantes. Adolescents such as Pablo need psychological and spiritual treatment, Cheira said, not jail. \u201cThe narco-traffic has become the refuge for these kids,\u201d he said.But rehabilitating teenage drug users is a long, difficult process. In April, the centre\u2019s other five residents escaped to buy crack, cocaine and marijuana. They assaulted a bus using weapons they had fashioned out of metal and wire. Afterward, they sought out one of the centre\u2019s workers, frightened of the consequences of what they had done. Four are back with their families. The fifth was killed by a dealer.Cl\u00edstenes advocated changes in the law applying to children and teenagers, with longer detention for serious crimes and older and repeat offenders. In a letter to congressional leaders and Rousseff, Human Rights Watch said that reducing the age of criminal majority would violate international treaties signed by Brazil, such as the UN convention on the rights of the child.The letter quoted a US justice department bulletin citing research suggesting that trying teenagers as adults in the United States had led to higher levels of re-offending. \u201cThe solution is not to send them to adult prison,\u201d said Maria Laura Canineu, Human Rights Watch\u2019s Brazil director. \u201cThis will give them a certificate in crime.\u201dOn a recent afternoon, 187 boys were locked in their cells at Fortaleza\u2019s S\u00e3o Miguel educational centre, which has a capacity of 60. Cells with concrete beds for four housed up to a dozen on grubby mattresses on the floor.Inmates shared more stories of the violence sweeping Brazilian society \u2013 an armed mugging, a knifing death the perpetrator said was self-defence. According to government estimates, fewer than 8% of Brazil\u2019s homicides are solved \u2013 a fundamental problem that reducing the age of criminal majority is unlikely to change.This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from the Washington Post", "tags": ["Brazil", "Drugs trade", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil divided over how to deal with its teenage criminals"},{"date": "2015-05-22T13:58:17Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I wrote last summer about our plan to run citizen reporting programmes in different parts of the world. The aim is to train marginalised people and communities to bring forth burning issues and stories that, perhaps, the national and international media are overlooking. In June we visited South Africa, and October India. Now we\u2019ve just returned from Brazil.Twenty people came from all parts of the country to take part in a two-day workshop. The training covered storytelling, evidence-finding, verification, ethics, social media and the ways participants can connect to us directly through digital platforms such as GuardianWitness.The stories they brought in were extraordinary, covering indigenous rights in the Amazon, Olympic relocations, young people in the favelas, sex workers during the World Cup, and life for Bolivian and Syrian migrants. One of our trained citizen reporters, Luis Adorno, collaborated with our Latin America correspondent Jon Watts on a murder story in Sao Paulo. We plan to use their work as part of a big piece on violence across Brazil. \u2018A Year in a Favela\u2019 will chart the period immediately before the Olympics, with our newly trained citizen reporters in Mar\u00e9, Alem\u00e3o and Rocinha delivering monthly updates.We have also commissioned a \u2018How I Go to School\u2019 video series with children from rural areas in Brazil. Several participants said education was their priority, especially the problems that many children face getting to school. One landless worker told us of students who had to walk for two hours across a river after their old school was shut down. Favela residents described long bus journeys even to reach city schools. Indigenous groups spoke of the challenges faced by children who have to go by boat through the forest.Our correspondent is in touch with citizen reporter Tonico Benites in order to plan a visit to Guarani Kaoiwa for a feature article about Brazil\u2019s other indigenous people, and how they are not the photogenic jungle-dwellers of the world\u2019s imagination, but live in much worse conditions. Finally - for now - we also commissioned an opinion piece about the threat posed by miners and loggers to the village of Itaituba.These workshops showed us that there is still a great deal out there, sadly, which the national and international media are not covering. You just have to let people tell their stories...", "tags": ["Global development", "Environmental sustainability", "Society", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Uncovering unheard voices of Brazil..."},{"date": "2015-05-14T17:37:31Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Food retailers such as McDonald\u2019s, Krispy Kreme, Dunkin Donuts, as well as agribusinesses like Cargill, are among the big companies to recently make zero-deforestation pledges. But do these commitments achieve anything other than PR for food companies? New research indicates they might.A study published Tuesday in the journal Conservation Letters says that public agreements made by beef suppliers in Brazilhave had a real impact on rancher and slaughterhouse behavior in the Amazon. A team led by Holly Gibbs of the University of Wisconsin-Madison observed data on land use in the state of Par\u00e1 before and after a 2009 agreement by major meatpacking companies to remove deforestation from their supply chain. The researchers found that the deforestation rate among ranch owners they studied has since been cut in half. The agreement, signed by meatpacking companies JBS-Friboi, Minerva, Marfrig and Bertin, imposed a moratorium on buying cattle linked to deforestation in Brazil, where nearly two-thirds of deforested land is used as cattle pasture. The meatpacking companies also agreed to monitor their supply chain and only purchase cattle from farms in Brazil\u2019s environmental registry, Cadastro Ambiental Rural (CAR). They also refused to buy from cattle farms that had recently cleared forest land or in any way employed slave labor.Gibbs and her team of researchers tracked the land use of farms working with JBS-Friboi \u2013 the world\u2019s largest meat packing company - between 2008 and 2013. They used satellite data to monitor deforestation, gathere public data on land registration and survey cattle ranchers on their behavior.Before the agreement, 40% of JBS-Friboi\u2019s direct suppliers were linked to recent deforestation. By 2013, the number had fallen to less than 4%. Related: McDonald's to axe deforestation from its global supply chain Cattle rearing in Brazil is a complex process in which cattle are calved, reared and fattened in different locations before arriving at slaughterhouses. Meatpacking companies that supply beef to food giants such as McDonald\u2019s are only one stop in a supply-chain that relies on an assortment of cattle suppliers.This makes tracing cattle and ensuring that it is entirely deforestation-free nearly impossible. However, the agreement quickly changed the behavior of all major suppliers to JBS-Friboi, the researchers found.\u201cWe see that the ranchers that continue to sell to JBS after the agreement reduced their deforestation rates dramatically and had much lower deforestation rates than properties that sold before the agreement,\u201d Gibbs says. Most importantly, these changes happened in a matter of months. \u201cThis is in sharp contrast to things like the Brazilian forest code,\u201d says Gibbs, referring to a controversial piece of legislation that regulates forest reserves, \u201cwhich takes years to effectively implement\u201d.The beef agreement was not the first major anti-deforestation pledge by corporations. A similar agreement, the Amazon Soy Moratorium, signed by major food corporations in 2006, has also had success in fighting deforestation. The voluntary pledge to stop buying soy linked to deforestationwas extended a third time, to mid-2016, late last year.  Related: Soy may be next on the no-deforestation hit list, but policies will take time to make an impact Researcher Holly Gibbs says these sorts of agreements are growing in popularity. Large businesses concerned about international market access have incentive to avoid the increasingly bad publicity tied to habitat destruction. In response to public pressure, Gibbs says, \u201cWe see that the agribusiness powerhouses like ADM (Archer Daniels Midland) and McDonald\u2019s are promising to delink agricultural production from tropical deforestation.\u201d \u201cThere are about 95 slaughterhouses in the legal Amazon,\u201d Gibbs says, \u201cand about 65 of them have signed some type of zero-deforestation commitment, but many of them still don\u2019t have monitoring systems.\u201dHowever, there are limitations to what these agreements can achieve. The voluntary system is easy to get around, the researchers found. Some of the ranchers Gibbs\u2019 team spoke to explained that they could go \u201cright past JBS slaughterhouse and sell to their neighboring slaughterhouse\u201d. Monitoring only direct sales to meatpacking companies leaves the supply chain open to cattle laundering, where cattle may be reared in deforested land but sold to other compliant farms before they arrive at slaughterhouses.  Related: Apple is protecting forests by buying them up But Gibbs is optimistic. The pledge has not seemed to hurt the beef market or negatively affect the meatpacking business. JBS-Friboi, which operated nine slaughterhouses in 2009, has ramped up operations to 32 in 2013, four years after the agreement. The company did not pay higher prices to compliant ranch owners. While Gibbs says there has been a great deal of momentum towards putting monitoring systems in place, agribusinesses, consumers and activists should continue to demand zero deforestation in the supply chain. \u201cThere are a lot of positive signs that with continued investment in these systems, it could really pay dividends for forest conservation,\u201d Gibbs says. \u201cBut we certainly need more work.\u201dThe role of business in development hub is funded by Business Call to Action. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cbrought to you by\u201d. Find out more here.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Food", "Deforestation", "McDonald's", "Walmart", "Brazil", "Environment", "Business", "Ethical business", "Americas", "Conservation", "Trees and forests", "World news"], "title": "Brazil beef industry pledges cut Amazon deforestation"},{"date": "2015-06-30T17:49:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Barack Obama and Dilma Rousseff put climate change at the top of their agenda at their bilateral meeting on Tuesday, with the US and Brazil agreeing to obtain up to 20% of their electricity from renewable power by 2030.Brazil also committed to restoring up to 12m hectares of forest \u2013 an area about the size of England or Pennsylvania \u2013 in another attempt to reduce the carbon pollution that causes climate change.The White House said the initiatives were part of a new US-Brazil climate partnership, loosely modelled on the historic US-China agreement reached during Obama\u2019s visit to Beijing last November, intended to build momentum for a global deal to fight climate change in Paris at the end of the year.\u201cFollowing progress during my trips to China and India, this shows that the world\u2019s major economies can begin to transcend some of the old divides and work together to confront the common challenge that we face,\u201d said Obama at a joint press conference with his Brazilian counterpart. Rousseff also heralded the agreement as a highlight of her trip, claiming it would help progress towards a global emissions reductions agreement at upcoming talks in Paris.\u201cClimate change is one of the central challenges of the 21st century,\u201d she said. \u201cAnd we have one important objective, which is, number one, to ensure that the energy mix in our two countries will have a substantial share of renewable sources of energy.\u201cAs countries that are as vast as continents, we have this very important greenhouse gas emissions target,\u201d added Rousseff. \u201cWe attach a great deal of importance to reducing [deforestation].. and we also wish to turn the page and engage in a clear-cut reforestation-oriented policy.\u201dThe pledge will require the US to triple its production of wind and solar power and other renewable energies. Brazil will need to double its production of clean energy. The figures do not include hydro power.\u201cThis is a big deal,\u201d Brian Deese, the White House climate adviser, told a call with reporters.He said putting climate change at the centre of the US-Brazil relationship would help drive action on the issue. \u201cWe are shining a spotlight on the issues and elevating the conversation around them,\u201d he said.Rich and poor countries alike have been putting forth their commitments, known as nationally determined contributions, to reduce emissions as part of the treaty, which world leaders hope to finalise later this year in Paris. Brazil also plans to expand renewable energy sources other than hydropower to between 28% and 33% of its total energy mix by 2030.And in the electricity sector, the US and Brazil jointly announced intentions to increase their share of renewable, non-hydropower sources to 20% by 2030. Deese said boosting renewables that high in the US would be dependent on controversial power plant emission limits that the Obama administration has proposed.\u201cWe believe that this is an ambitious target, but one that is actually achievable and will create new low-cost opportunities for the American economy,\u201d Deese said. \u201cTo achieve it, we\u2019re going to have to continue to hit our marks in implementing the regulations we\u2019ve identified to date.\u201d Related: Brazil's gamble on deep water oil The US has already announced its full commitment to the climate treaty: a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions of up to 28% by 2025, compared with 2005 levels. But a key sticking point in the climate treaty has been whether developing countries like Brazil will be willing to make substantial contributions. Poorer nations have balked, arguing that industrialised nations that have polluted more historically bear more of the responsibility for curbing climate change.The announcement comes on the second day of Rousseff\u2019s visit to Washington, where she met with Obama in the Oval Office on Tuesday morning.In their visit, Obama and Rousseff have been working to show they have moved beyond tensions sparked by the revelation nearly two years ago that the US was spying on Rousseff. She cancelled a planned state visit in response. Officials in both countries say neither leader is interested in rehashing the spying issues this week and instead want to focus on ways to deepen cooperation.The Associated Press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Brazil", "Obama administration", "Dilma Rousseff", "Deforestation", "World news", "US news", "Trees and forests", "Environment", "Conservation", "Americas", "Gas", "Energy", "Barack Obama", "Climate change"], "title": "Brazil announces massive reforestation and renewable energy plan with US"},{"date": "2015-06-16T11:16:46Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Last July, Patricia fatally stabbed a female relative of her then-partner in a confrontation, provoked by what she described as continuous, poisonous innuendo. \u201cI couldn\u2019t stand it any more,\u201d she said. \u201cI took the life of another person.\u201d She was just 17.A heated debate over whether teenagers who commit violent crimes can be rehabilitated, or should be tried as adults and incarcerated in the country\u2019s packed and dangerous prisons, has split Brazil. High-profile violent crimes involving adolescents have inflamed the issue and polarised opinion around a controversial measure in congress to lower the age of criminal responsibility from 18 to 16. A vote is planned this month.Elisa Rodrigues, director of the Aldaci Barbosa Mota youth detention centre in Fortaleza where Patricia \u2013 whose name has been changed for legal reasons \u2013 is jailed, said Patricia understands the damage she caused and is suffering with the separation from her two-year-old son, Nicolas.\u201cThe person she killed had a serious involvement in drugs,\u201d Rodrigues said.Reducing the age of penal majority will not resolve the problem of juvenile delinquencyAlthough economic growth in Ceara, a state in Brazil\u2019s north-east, outperforms that of the country as a whole, murder rates in Fortaleza more than doubled in the 10 years ending in 2012, reaching 76.8 per 100,000 people, according to the Violence Map produced by the Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences. Fortaleza was listed as the eighth-most violent city in the world in 2014 in a report by Security, Justice and Peace, a Mexican nongovernmental organisation.Under current Brazilian law, teenage offenders like Patricia are detained for a maximum of three years at \u201ceducational centres\u201d to be \u201cre-socialised\u201d.\u201cNo one can change what has passed. But I can change my tomorrow,\u201d said Patricia, now 18, who takes academic, school, beauty and dance classes. \u201cI can become a better person.\u201dIn an April poll by the Datafolha polling institute, 87% of respondents supported the proposal to reduce the age of criminal majority. Pepper spray was used on protesters demonstrating against it in congress last week. \u201cOur primitive leftists think that murder is the eve of redemption,\u201d rightwing columnist Reinaldo Azevedo wrote in the Folha de S Paulo newspaper.Opponents counter that throwing teenagers into Brazil\u2019s notoriously brutal and overcrowded adult prisons, where criminal gangs rule, riots are common and decapitations are not unheard of, is no solution \u2013 even if convicted adolescents serve time in separate prisons or units.\u201cReducing the age of penal majority will not resolve the problem of juvenile delinquency,\u201d President Dilma Rousseff wrote on her Facebook page in April. Her government may support a counterproposal to increase the maximum adolescent detention to 10 years.Black-clad police Swat teams patrol Fortaleza streets in groups of four: three ride motorbikes, and one with an automatic rifle rides on the back of one of the bikes. On a recent afternoon they arrested two teenage boys on a motorbike who had just held up a motorcycle shop.In Ceara, about 31% of violent crimes are committed by adolescentsThe battered .38-caliber revolver used in the holdup was dropped on to officer Rachel Moreira\u2019s desk at the city\u2019s Child and Adolescent Police Station. \u201cThe most everyday infractions are robberies with the use of weapons,\u201d she said, locking it in a filing cabinet.She said that reducing the penal age alone would not have an impact on crime levels and that wider changes to the law are needed. \u201cThese people of 16, 17 years are aware of the crime,\u201d countered her deputy, officer Emerson de Sousa, who supports the age reduction. Soldier Xavier, one of the arresting officers, said that more education, not reduction, is what\u2019s needed.In Ceara, about 31% of violent crimes are committed by adolescents, the Folha de S Paulo newspaper calculated from state government figures. \u201cThe motivation is drugs,\u201d said Manuel Cl\u00edstenes, chief judge at Fortaleza\u2019s childhood and juvenile court.Brazil\u2019s crack cocaine epidemic has hit Fortaleza hard. Marijuana is cheap and widely used. Adulterated cocaine has flooded poorer neighbourhoods. Offenders are generally from the lowest social classes. \u201cThere is always the criteria of [abandonment]. Rarely does an individual come who has a mother and father, from the middle class,\u201d Cl\u00edstenes said.Casa do Menor is a nongovernmental organisation that houses teenage boys with drug problems in one of its centres in Ceara. Pablo, 12, whose name has been changed for legal reasons, was its only resident on a recent morning. He said his mother, a crack addict, had died with a \u201clung full of ashes, sick\u201d. She was pregnant.\u201cThe majority of my family is of this world,\u201d he said. \u201cFor someone to enter is easy, you can go in, you can buy drugs. But to get out? You stay.\u201dPablo had lived on the street, dealt drugs, and used a knife and gun in assaults at a Fortaleza beach, he said. Now he wanted to clean up. \u201cI cried when I came here,\u201d he said. \u201cEveryone received me well.\u201dThe Rev Renato Chiera, an Italian priest, founded Casa do Menor in Nova Iguacu, near Rio de Janeiro, in 1986 to shelter local homeless children threatened by vigilantes. Adolescents such as Pablo need psychological and spiritual treatment, Cheira said, not jail. \u201cThe narco-traffic has become the refuge for these kids,\u201d he said.But rehabilitating teenage drug users is a long, difficult process. In April, the centre\u2019s other five residents escaped to buy crack, cocaine and marijuana. They assaulted a bus using weapons they had fashioned out of metal and wire. Afterward, they sought out one of the centre\u2019s workers, frightened of the consequences of what they had done. Four are back with their families. The fifth was killed by a dealer.Cl\u00edstenes advocated changes in the law applying to children and teenagers, with longer detention for serious crimes and older and repeat offenders. In a letter to congressional leaders and Rousseff, Human Rights Watch said that reducing the age of criminal majority would violate international treaties signed by Brazil, such as the UN convention on the rights of the child.The letter quoted a US justice department bulletin citing research suggesting that trying teenagers as adults in the United States had led to higher levels of re-offending. \u201cThe solution is not to send them to adult prison,\u201d said Maria Laura Canineu, Human Rights Watch\u2019s Brazil director. \u201cThis will give them a certificate in crime.\u201dOn a recent afternoon, 187 boys were locked in their cells at Fortaleza\u2019s S\u00e3o Miguel educational centre, which has a capacity of 60. Cells with concrete beds for four housed up to a dozen on grubby mattresses on the floor.Inmates shared more stories of the violence sweeping Brazilian society \u2013 an armed mugging, a knifing death the perpetrator said was self-defence. According to government estimates, fewer than 8% of Brazil\u2019s homicides are solved \u2013 a fundamental problem that reducing the age of criminal majority is unlikely to change.This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from the Washington Post", "tags": ["Brazil", "Drugs trade", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil divided over how to deal with its teenage criminals"},{"date": "2015-06-03T11:05:19Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Eduardo Gomes needs to find an imam who can certify halal meat fast.The 34-year old foreign and domestic sales manager of Frigo Estrela, a meat-packing company located in the countryside of S\u00e3o Paulo state, has just accepted a 1,000-tonne order from Iran.He\u2019s bought the cattle, booked the container and even reserved a space on a cargo ship. But now the imam he normally uses to approve his meat is sick with a suspected case of dengue fever. Unless Gomes can find another imam, or a different buyer for his non-halal meat, Frigo Estela stands to suffer a big loss.\u201cWhen one of our workers gets sick, I can\u2019t just replace him with another,\u201d he said. \u201cEveryone here has a particular role.\u201dThe scarcity of imams is just the latest problem for the company, caused by the high incidence of dengue fever in the town of Estrela d\u2019Oeste. Related: US harvest threatened by water-intensive oil and gas boom From the start of the year until 9 May, Brazil registered a total of 845,900 cases of the virus, equivalent to around 0.4% of the population; in Estrela d\u2019Oeste (pop. 8,208), there have been over 1,500 suspected cases, according to the town\u2019s health department. At least 536 of those cases have been confirmed.S\u00e3o Paulo is experiencing its most severe drought in decades, after three years of below-average rainfall. Rationing has led to many Brazilians stock-piling water. Unsecured containers provide ideal breeding grounds for the Aedes Aegypti mosquito, which carries the disease. On 14 May the health minister, Arthur Chioro, stated that Brazil was experiencing an \u201cepidemic\u201d of dengue fever.According to the World Health Organization, an epidemic is over 300 cases per 100,000; in Brazil\u2019s south-east the figure is 648.1. The number of cases this year is over 200% more than the same period of 2014, but lower than in 2013, when over 1.2 million Brazilians were infected.At least 229 Brazilians have died in 2015 due to the disease, which is characterised by flu-like symptoms, fever and vomiting. As yet, there is no vaccine and no cure. Treatment involves relieving the symptoms through hydration and serum.For Frigo Estrela, which employs over 2,000, most of whom are from the town, the disease has taken its toll. Gomes said that 35% of his workforce has been off sick over the past five months, not including those who took time off to care for relatives.To minimise its impact, staff have been given lessons in how to proof both the workplace and their homes against the disease. A new six-strong inspection team, wearing protective overalls, gloves and eye-masks, patrols the grounds of the 92,000 square metre complex every day, armed with a check-list and a powerful insecticide.But the chemicals used by both private companies and public health authorities to fumigate are expensive, environmentally harmful and only provide a temporary solution.In all, Gomes estimates the preventative measures are costing him R$50,000 (US$17,000) a month, and he is critical of the local authorities for failing to do more to prevent the spread of the disease.\u201cThey have been far too passive,\u201d he said. \u201cIt\u2019s like they are waiting for some kind of divine intervention.\u201dIn the local hospital, Eliana Ralho, 34, the municipal health coordinator, strongly disagrees. According to Ralho, the town\u2019s health department has done even more than the state guidelines recommend.\u201cWe are supposed to have one health worker for every 1,000 houses,\u201d she said. \u201cHere we have 3,000 houses and five health workers, going door to door, every weekday, looking for possible breeding sites, spraying when necessary and educating people on how to minimise the risk.\u201dIn early May, the town council passed a law allowing the local police to fine residents a minimum of R$75 (US$25) if they fail to clear their properties of possible breeding grounds after a warning from a health worker. Ms Ralho thinks the threat of fines is starting to have an effect.Inside the hospital, Arquimedes Pichazzi, 76, another of the town\u2019s suspected cases of dengue, blames the carelessness of local residents for the outbreak. \u201cI think the authorities are doing a good job,\u201d he said. It\u2019s the people here who are too relaxed about the disease.\u201dSince January, Brazil\u2019s health ministry has spent R$150m (US$50m) fighting dengue. Most of the money has gone to health authorities in towns like Estrela d\u2019Oeste, to fund preventative measures, such as house visits and education programmes.But given the difficulty of halting the spread of dengue, public and private organisations based in Brazil are working on other solutions. Related: Genetically engineered mosquitoes could be vital weapon against malaria Instituto Butantan, a state-run biomedical facility in S\u00e3o Paulo, is in its third phase of vaccine testing, while Sanofi, the French pharmaceutical company, claims to have produced a vaccine that results in a 60% prevention rate for all strains of the disease.Oxitec, a British company, has created a genetically-modified variant of the Aedes Aegypti which mates with the native mosquito population to produce offspring which die before reaching maturity.While field trials are taking place in various Brazilian municipalities, environmentalists have expressed concern over the unintended consequences of releasing swarms of GM mosquitoes.Oxitech has not yet received clearance to market its technology to the private sector. But Mr Gomes said he was offering to fund the town health department\u2019s purchase of the Oxitech mosquitos.On 26 May the health ministry said that the worst of the outbreak appears to be over. But until researchers develop a more permanent solution, recent history suggests the disease is likely to return soon.Additional reporting by Amanda Moreth", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Water", "Environment", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil considers vaccines and GM mosquitoes to tackle dengue fever"},{"date": "2015-05-22T13:58:17Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I wrote last summer about our plan to run citizen reporting programmes in different parts of the world. The aim is to train marginalised people and communities to bring forth burning issues and stories that, perhaps, the national and international media are overlooking. In June we visited South Africa, and October India. Now we\u2019ve just returned from Brazil.Twenty people came from all parts of the country to take part in a two-day workshop. The training covered storytelling, evidence-finding, verification, ethics, social media and the ways participants can connect to us directly through digital platforms such as GuardianWitness.The stories they brought in were extraordinary, covering indigenous rights in the Amazon, Olympic relocations, young people in the favelas, sex workers during the World Cup, and life for Bolivian and Syrian migrants. One of our trained citizen reporters, Luis Adorno, collaborated with our Latin America correspondent Jon Watts on a murder story in Sao Paulo. We plan to use their work as part of a big piece on violence across Brazil. \u2018A Year in a Favela\u2019 will chart the period immediately before the Olympics, with our newly trained citizen reporters in Mar\u00e9, Alem\u00e3o and Rocinha delivering monthly updates.We have also commissioned a \u2018How I Go to School\u2019 video series with children from rural areas in Brazil. Several participants said education was their priority, especially the problems that many children face getting to school. One landless worker told us of students who had to walk for two hours across a river after their old school was shut down. Favela residents described long bus journeys even to reach city schools. Indigenous groups spoke of the challenges faced by children who have to go by boat through the forest.Our correspondent is in touch with citizen reporter Tonico Benites in order to plan a visit to Guarani Kaoiwa for a feature article about Brazil\u2019s other indigenous people, and how they are not the photogenic jungle-dwellers of the world\u2019s imagination, but live in much worse conditions. Finally - for now - we also commissioned an opinion piece about the threat posed by miners and loggers to the village of Itaituba.These workshops showed us that there is still a great deal out there, sadly, which the national and international media are not covering. You just have to let people tell their stories...", "tags": ["Global development", "Environmental sustainability", "Society", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Uncovering unheard voices of Brazil..."},{"date": "2015-05-14T17:37:31Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Food retailers such as McDonald\u2019s, Krispy Kreme, Dunkin Donuts, as well as agribusinesses like Cargill, are among the big companies to recently make zero-deforestation pledges. But do these commitments achieve anything other than PR for food companies? New research indicates they might.A study published Tuesday in the journal Conservation Letters says that public agreements made by beef suppliers in Brazilhave had a real impact on rancher and slaughterhouse behavior in the Amazon. A team led by Holly Gibbs of the University of Wisconsin-Madison observed data on land use in the state of Par\u00e1 before and after a 2009 agreement by major meatpacking companies to remove deforestation from their supply chain. The researchers found that the deforestation rate among ranch owners they studied has since been cut in half. The agreement, signed by meatpacking companies JBS-Friboi, Minerva, Marfrig and Bertin, imposed a moratorium on buying cattle linked to deforestation in Brazil, where nearly two-thirds of deforested land is used as cattle pasture. The meatpacking companies also agreed to monitor their supply chain and only purchase cattle from farms in Brazil\u2019s environmental registry, Cadastro Ambiental Rural (CAR). They also refused to buy from cattle farms that had recently cleared forest land or in any way employed slave labor.Gibbs and her team of researchers tracked the land use of farms working with JBS-Friboi \u2013 the world\u2019s largest meat packing company - between 2008 and 2013. They used satellite data to monitor deforestation, gathere public data on land registration and survey cattle ranchers on their behavior.Before the agreement, 40% of JBS-Friboi\u2019s direct suppliers were linked to recent deforestation. By 2013, the number had fallen to less than 4%. Related: McDonald's to axe deforestation from its global supply chain Cattle rearing in Brazil is a complex process in which cattle are calved, reared and fattened in different locations before arriving at slaughterhouses. Meatpacking companies that supply beef to food giants such as McDonald\u2019s are only one stop in a supply-chain that relies on an assortment of cattle suppliers.This makes tracing cattle and ensuring that it is entirely deforestation-free nearly impossible. However, the agreement quickly changed the behavior of all major suppliers to JBS-Friboi, the researchers found.\u201cWe see that the ranchers that continue to sell to JBS after the agreement reduced their deforestation rates dramatically and had much lower deforestation rates than properties that sold before the agreement,\u201d Gibbs says. Most importantly, these changes happened in a matter of months. \u201cThis is in sharp contrast to things like the Brazilian forest code,\u201d says Gibbs, referring to a controversial piece of legislation that regulates forest reserves, \u201cwhich takes years to effectively implement\u201d.The beef agreement was not the first major anti-deforestation pledge by corporations. A similar agreement, the Amazon Soy Moratorium, signed by major food corporations in 2006, has also had success in fighting deforestation. The voluntary pledge to stop buying soy linked to deforestationwas extended a third time, to mid-2016, late last year.  Related: Soy may be next on the no-deforestation hit list, but policies will take time to make an impact Researcher Holly Gibbs says these sorts of agreements are growing in popularity. Large businesses concerned about international market access have incentive to avoid the increasingly bad publicity tied to habitat destruction. In response to public pressure, Gibbs says, \u201cWe see that the agribusiness powerhouses like ADM (Archer Daniels Midland) and McDonald\u2019s are promising to delink agricultural production from tropical deforestation.\u201d \u201cThere are about 95 slaughterhouses in the legal Amazon,\u201d Gibbs says, \u201cand about 65 of them have signed some type of zero-deforestation commitment, but many of them still don\u2019t have monitoring systems.\u201dHowever, there are limitations to what these agreements can achieve. The voluntary system is easy to get around, the researchers found. Some of the ranchers Gibbs\u2019 team spoke to explained that they could go \u201cright past JBS slaughterhouse and sell to their neighboring slaughterhouse\u201d. Monitoring only direct sales to meatpacking companies leaves the supply chain open to cattle laundering, where cattle may be reared in deforested land but sold to other compliant farms before they arrive at slaughterhouses.  Related: Apple is protecting forests by buying them up But Gibbs is optimistic. The pledge has not seemed to hurt the beef market or negatively affect the meatpacking business. JBS-Friboi, which operated nine slaughterhouses in 2009, has ramped up operations to 32 in 2013, four years after the agreement. The company did not pay higher prices to compliant ranch owners. While Gibbs says there has been a great deal of momentum towards putting monitoring systems in place, agribusinesses, consumers and activists should continue to demand zero deforestation in the supply chain. \u201cThere are a lot of positive signs that with continued investment in these systems, it could really pay dividends for forest conservation,\u201d Gibbs says. \u201cBut we certainly need more work.\u201dThe role of business in development hub is funded by Business Call to Action. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cbrought to you by\u201d. Find out more here.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Food", "Deforestation", "McDonald's", "Walmart", "Brazil", "Environment", "Business", "Ethical business", "Americas", "Conservation", "Trees and forests", "World news"], "title": "Brazil beef industry pledges cut Amazon deforestation"},{"date": "2015-06-30T17:49:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Barack Obama and Dilma Rousseff put climate change at the top of their agenda at their bilateral meeting on Tuesday, with the US and Brazil agreeing to obtain up to 20% of their electricity from renewable power by 2030.Brazil also committed to restoring up to 12m hectares of forest \u2013 an area about the size of England or Pennsylvania \u2013 in another attempt to reduce the carbon pollution that causes climate change.The White House said the initiatives were part of a new US-Brazil climate partnership, loosely modelled on the historic US-China agreement reached during Obama\u2019s visit to Beijing last November, intended to build momentum for a global deal to fight climate change in Paris at the end of the year.\u201cFollowing progress during my trips to China and India, this shows that the world\u2019s major economies can begin to transcend some of the old divides and work together to confront the common challenge that we face,\u201d said Obama at a joint press conference with his Brazilian counterpart. Rousseff also heralded the agreement as a highlight of her trip, claiming it would help progress towards a global emissions reductions agreement at upcoming talks in Paris.\u201cClimate change is one of the central challenges of the 21st century,\u201d she said. \u201cAnd we have one important objective, which is, number one, to ensure that the energy mix in our two countries will have a substantial share of renewable sources of energy.\u201cAs countries that are as vast as continents, we have this very important greenhouse gas emissions target,\u201d added Rousseff. \u201cWe attach a great deal of importance to reducing [deforestation].. and we also wish to turn the page and engage in a clear-cut reforestation-oriented policy.\u201dThe pledge will require the US to triple its production of wind and solar power and other renewable energies. Brazil will need to double its production of clean energy. The figures do not include hydro power.\u201cThis is a big deal,\u201d Brian Deese, the White House climate adviser, told a call with reporters.He said putting climate change at the centre of the US-Brazil relationship would help drive action on the issue. \u201cWe are shining a spotlight on the issues and elevating the conversation around them,\u201d he said.Rich and poor countries alike have been putting forth their commitments, known as nationally determined contributions, to reduce emissions as part of the treaty, which world leaders hope to finalise later this year in Paris. Brazil also plans to expand renewable energy sources other than hydropower to between 28% and 33% of its total energy mix by 2030.And in the electricity sector, the US and Brazil jointly announced intentions to increase their share of renewable, non-hydropower sources to 20% by 2030. Deese said boosting renewables that high in the US would be dependent on controversial power plant emission limits that the Obama administration has proposed.\u201cWe believe that this is an ambitious target, but one that is actually achievable and will create new low-cost opportunities for the American economy,\u201d Deese said. \u201cTo achieve it, we\u2019re going to have to continue to hit our marks in implementing the regulations we\u2019ve identified to date.\u201d Related: Brazil's gamble on deep water oil The US has already announced its full commitment to the climate treaty: a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions of up to 28% by 2025, compared with 2005 levels. But a key sticking point in the climate treaty has been whether developing countries like Brazil will be willing to make substantial contributions. Poorer nations have balked, arguing that industrialised nations that have polluted more historically bear more of the responsibility for curbing climate change.The announcement comes on the second day of Rousseff\u2019s visit to Washington, where she met with Obama in the Oval Office on Tuesday morning.In their visit, Obama and Rousseff have been working to show they have moved beyond tensions sparked by the revelation nearly two years ago that the US was spying on Rousseff. She cancelled a planned state visit in response. Officials in both countries say neither leader is interested in rehashing the spying issues this week and instead want to focus on ways to deepen cooperation.The Associated Press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Brazil", "Obama administration", "Dilma Rousseff", "Deforestation", "World news", "US news", "Trees and forests", "Environment", "Conservation", "Americas", "Gas", "Energy", "Barack Obama", "Climate change"], "title": "Brazil announces massive reforestation and renewable energy plan with US"},{"date": "2015-06-16T11:16:46Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Last July, Patricia fatally stabbed a female relative of her then-partner in a confrontation, provoked by what she described as continuous, poisonous innuendo. \u201cI couldn\u2019t stand it any more,\u201d she said. \u201cI took the life of another person.\u201d She was just 17.A heated debate over whether teenagers who commit violent crimes can be rehabilitated, or should be tried as adults and incarcerated in the country\u2019s packed and dangerous prisons, has split Brazil. High-profile violent crimes involving adolescents have inflamed the issue and polarised opinion around a controversial measure in congress to lower the age of criminal responsibility from 18 to 16. A vote is planned this month.Elisa Rodrigues, director of the Aldaci Barbosa Mota youth detention centre in Fortaleza where Patricia \u2013 whose name has been changed for legal reasons \u2013 is jailed, said Patricia understands the damage she caused and is suffering with the separation from her two-year-old son, Nicolas.\u201cThe person she killed had a serious involvement in drugs,\u201d Rodrigues said.Reducing the age of penal majority will not resolve the problem of juvenile delinquencyAlthough economic growth in Ceara, a state in Brazil\u2019s north-east, outperforms that of the country as a whole, murder rates in Fortaleza more than doubled in the 10 years ending in 2012, reaching 76.8 per 100,000 people, according to the Violence Map produced by the Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences. Fortaleza was listed as the eighth-most violent city in the world in 2014 in a report by Security, Justice and Peace, a Mexican nongovernmental organisation.Under current Brazilian law, teenage offenders like Patricia are detained for a maximum of three years at \u201ceducational centres\u201d to be \u201cre-socialised\u201d.\u201cNo one can change what has passed. But I can change my tomorrow,\u201d said Patricia, now 18, who takes academic, school, beauty and dance classes. \u201cI can become a better person.\u201dIn an April poll by the Datafolha polling institute, 87% of respondents supported the proposal to reduce the age of criminal majority. Pepper spray was used on protesters demonstrating against it in congress last week. \u201cOur primitive leftists think that murder is the eve of redemption,\u201d rightwing columnist Reinaldo Azevedo wrote in the Folha de S Paulo newspaper.Opponents counter that throwing teenagers into Brazil\u2019s notoriously brutal and overcrowded adult prisons, where criminal gangs rule, riots are common and decapitations are not unheard of, is no solution \u2013 even if convicted adolescents serve time in separate prisons or units.\u201cReducing the age of penal majority will not resolve the problem of juvenile delinquency,\u201d President Dilma Rousseff wrote on her Facebook page in April. Her government may support a counterproposal to increase the maximum adolescent detention to 10 years.Black-clad police Swat teams patrol Fortaleza streets in groups of four: three ride motorbikes, and one with an automatic rifle rides on the back of one of the bikes. On a recent afternoon they arrested two teenage boys on a motorbike who had just held up a motorcycle shop.In Ceara, about 31% of violent crimes are committed by adolescentsThe battered .38-caliber revolver used in the holdup was dropped on to officer Rachel Moreira\u2019s desk at the city\u2019s Child and Adolescent Police Station. \u201cThe most everyday infractions are robberies with the use of weapons,\u201d she said, locking it in a filing cabinet.She said that reducing the penal age alone would not have an impact on crime levels and that wider changes to the law are needed. \u201cThese people of 16, 17 years are aware of the crime,\u201d countered her deputy, officer Emerson de Sousa, who supports the age reduction. Soldier Xavier, one of the arresting officers, said that more education, not reduction, is what\u2019s needed.In Ceara, about 31% of violent crimes are committed by adolescents, the Folha de S Paulo newspaper calculated from state government figures. \u201cThe motivation is drugs,\u201d said Manuel Cl\u00edstenes, chief judge at Fortaleza\u2019s childhood and juvenile court.Brazil\u2019s crack cocaine epidemic has hit Fortaleza hard. Marijuana is cheap and widely used. Adulterated cocaine has flooded poorer neighbourhoods. Offenders are generally from the lowest social classes. \u201cThere is always the criteria of [abandonment]. Rarely does an individual come who has a mother and father, from the middle class,\u201d Cl\u00edstenes said.Casa do Menor is a nongovernmental organisation that houses teenage boys with drug problems in one of its centres in Ceara. Pablo, 12, whose name has been changed for legal reasons, was its only resident on a recent morning. He said his mother, a crack addict, had died with a \u201clung full of ashes, sick\u201d. She was pregnant.\u201cThe majority of my family is of this world,\u201d he said. \u201cFor someone to enter is easy, you can go in, you can buy drugs. But to get out? You stay.\u201dPablo had lived on the street, dealt drugs, and used a knife and gun in assaults at a Fortaleza beach, he said. Now he wanted to clean up. \u201cI cried when I came here,\u201d he said. \u201cEveryone received me well.\u201dThe Rev Renato Chiera, an Italian priest, founded Casa do Menor in Nova Iguacu, near Rio de Janeiro, in 1986 to shelter local homeless children threatened by vigilantes. Adolescents such as Pablo need psychological and spiritual treatment, Cheira said, not jail. \u201cThe narco-traffic has become the refuge for these kids,\u201d he said.But rehabilitating teenage drug users is a long, difficult process. In April, the centre\u2019s other five residents escaped to buy crack, cocaine and marijuana. They assaulted a bus using weapons they had fashioned out of metal and wire. Afterward, they sought out one of the centre\u2019s workers, frightened of the consequences of what they had done. Four are back with their families. The fifth was killed by a dealer.Cl\u00edstenes advocated changes in the law applying to children and teenagers, with longer detention for serious crimes and older and repeat offenders. In a letter to congressional leaders and Rousseff, Human Rights Watch said that reducing the age of criminal majority would violate international treaties signed by Brazil, such as the UN convention on the rights of the child.The letter quoted a US justice department bulletin citing research suggesting that trying teenagers as adults in the United States had led to higher levels of re-offending. \u201cThe solution is not to send them to adult prison,\u201d said Maria Laura Canineu, Human Rights Watch\u2019s Brazil director. \u201cThis will give them a certificate in crime.\u201dOn a recent afternoon, 187 boys were locked in their cells at Fortaleza\u2019s S\u00e3o Miguel educational centre, which has a capacity of 60. Cells with concrete beds for four housed up to a dozen on grubby mattresses on the floor.Inmates shared more stories of the violence sweeping Brazilian society \u2013 an armed mugging, a knifing death the perpetrator said was self-defence. According to government estimates, fewer than 8% of Brazil\u2019s homicides are solved \u2013 a fundamental problem that reducing the age of criminal majority is unlikely to change.This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from the Washington Post", "tags": ["Brazil", "Drugs trade", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil divided over how to deal with its teenage criminals"},{"date": "2015-06-03T11:05:19Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Eduardo Gomes needs to find an imam who can certify halal meat fast.The 34-year old foreign and domestic sales manager of Frigo Estrela, a meat-packing company located in the countryside of S\u00e3o Paulo state, has just accepted a 1,000-tonne order from Iran.He\u2019s bought the cattle, booked the container and even reserved a space on a cargo ship. But now the imam he normally uses to approve his meat is sick with a suspected case of dengue fever. Unless Gomes can find another imam, or a different buyer for his non-halal meat, Frigo Estela stands to suffer a big loss.\u201cWhen one of our workers gets sick, I can\u2019t just replace him with another,\u201d he said. \u201cEveryone here has a particular role.\u201dThe scarcity of imams is just the latest problem for the company, caused by the high incidence of dengue fever in the town of Estrela d\u2019Oeste. Related: US harvest threatened by water-intensive oil and gas boom From the start of the year until 9 May, Brazil registered a total of 845,900 cases of the virus, equivalent to around 0.4% of the population; in Estrela d\u2019Oeste (pop. 8,208), there have been over 1,500 suspected cases, according to the town\u2019s health department. At least 536 of those cases have been confirmed.S\u00e3o Paulo is experiencing its most severe drought in decades, after three years of below-average rainfall. Rationing has led to many Brazilians stock-piling water. Unsecured containers provide ideal breeding grounds for the Aedes Aegypti mosquito, which carries the disease. On 14 May the health minister, Arthur Chioro, stated that Brazil was experiencing an \u201cepidemic\u201d of dengue fever.According to the World Health Organization, an epidemic is over 300 cases per 100,000; in Brazil\u2019s south-east the figure is 648.1. The number of cases this year is over 200% more than the same period of 2014, but lower than in 2013, when over 1.2 million Brazilians were infected.At least 229 Brazilians have died in 2015 due to the disease, which is characterised by flu-like symptoms, fever and vomiting. As yet, there is no vaccine and no cure. Treatment involves relieving the symptoms through hydration and serum.For Frigo Estrela, which employs over 2,000, most of whom are from the town, the disease has taken its toll. Gomes said that 35% of his workforce has been off sick over the past five months, not including those who took time off to care for relatives.To minimise its impact, staff have been given lessons in how to proof both the workplace and their homes against the disease. A new six-strong inspection team, wearing protective overalls, gloves and eye-masks, patrols the grounds of the 92,000 square metre complex every day, armed with a check-list and a powerful insecticide.But the chemicals used by both private companies and public health authorities to fumigate are expensive, environmentally harmful and only provide a temporary solution.In all, Gomes estimates the preventative measures are costing him R$50,000 (US$17,000) a month, and he is critical of the local authorities for failing to do more to prevent the spread of the disease.\u201cThey have been far too passive,\u201d he said. \u201cIt\u2019s like they are waiting for some kind of divine intervention.\u201dIn the local hospital, Eliana Ralho, 34, the municipal health coordinator, strongly disagrees. According to Ralho, the town\u2019s health department has done even more than the state guidelines recommend.\u201cWe are supposed to have one health worker for every 1,000 houses,\u201d she said. \u201cHere we have 3,000 houses and five health workers, going door to door, every weekday, looking for possible breeding sites, spraying when necessary and educating people on how to minimise the risk.\u201dIn early May, the town council passed a law allowing the local police to fine residents a minimum of R$75 (US$25) if they fail to clear their properties of possible breeding grounds after a warning from a health worker. Ms Ralho thinks the threat of fines is starting to have an effect.Inside the hospital, Arquimedes Pichazzi, 76, another of the town\u2019s suspected cases of dengue, blames the carelessness of local residents for the outbreak. \u201cI think the authorities are doing a good job,\u201d he said. It\u2019s the people here who are too relaxed about the disease.\u201dSince January, Brazil\u2019s health ministry has spent R$150m (US$50m) fighting dengue. Most of the money has gone to health authorities in towns like Estrela d\u2019Oeste, to fund preventative measures, such as house visits and education programmes.But given the difficulty of halting the spread of dengue, public and private organisations based in Brazil are working on other solutions. Related: Genetically engineered mosquitoes could be vital weapon against malaria Instituto Butantan, a state-run biomedical facility in S\u00e3o Paulo, is in its third phase of vaccine testing, while Sanofi, the French pharmaceutical company, claims to have produced a vaccine that results in a 60% prevention rate for all strains of the disease.Oxitec, a British company, has created a genetically-modified variant of the Aedes Aegypti which mates with the native mosquito population to produce offspring which die before reaching maturity.While field trials are taking place in various Brazilian municipalities, environmentalists have expressed concern over the unintended consequences of releasing swarms of GM mosquitoes.Oxitech has not yet received clearance to market its technology to the private sector. But Mr Gomes said he was offering to fund the town health department\u2019s purchase of the Oxitech mosquitos.On 26 May the health ministry said that the worst of the outbreak appears to be over. But until researchers develop a more permanent solution, recent history suggests the disease is likely to return soon.Additional reporting by Amanda Moreth", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Water", "Environment", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil considers vaccines and GM mosquitoes to tackle dengue fever"},{"date": "2015-05-13T10:39:44Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Despite her advanced age, Juliana Morais da Costa still retains enough strength in her hands to hold the heavy bateia. \u201cI began to pan gold when I was five. We started at 5am until 4pm. It was tough work, but I did it because it was the only way to be economically independent,\u201d remembers Morais, 86.Her home city of Paracatu is the epicentre of Brazil\u2019s mining production, in the north of the state of Minas Gerais, which generates almost one-third of Brazil\u2019s total mining production.The exploitation of gold started in Paracatu as early as 1722. But the days of the garimpeiros, or gold hunters, are long gone. Since the 1990s the hunt has moved from the river banks to underground deposits. Dynamite, excavators and chemicals replaced the garimpeiros, who were pushed out from a business that had sustained hundreds of families.In 2005, Canadian company Kinross \u2013 which is listed in the New York Stock Exchange and owns gold mines in Chile, United States, Russia and Ghana, among other countries \u2013 took over the mining concession in Paracatu. During a period in which gold prices rose to historical new heights in global markets, Kinross invested $1.86bn in the site, tripling annual production to the current 15 tonnes and making Paracatu the most productive gold mine in Brazil. As the gold in Paracatu takes the form of a powder and not grain or nuggets, the company had to greatly intensify mining activities to keep production up. Today as many as 160 dynamite explosions are carried out daily to dig the Morro do Ouro, the Golden Hill, as locals refer to the area where the main deposits are found.As a consequence, the local geography has been profoundly transformed. As you approach the mining area we witness an immense crater that covers 615 hectares, half the size of Heathrow\u2019s airport, and resembles a lunar landscape. The only signs of life are the imposing bulldozers and the high-wheeled vehicles that transport the rocks to the plant. There, toxic chemicals, including cyanide, are employed to separate out the gold powder, which is later molten in ingots and transported by helicopter to S\u00e3o Paulo for export around the globe.While the visual impact seems hard to deny \u2013 in addition to the mining area, two large dams the size of an extra Heathrow airport are used for toxic waste disposal \u2013 many argue that the mine poses a threat to the local environment and to the health of the 90,000 Paracatu residents. Not only is dynamite used to access the gold reserves as close as 200 metres from the urban area, the precious metal is mixed in the rock with arsenic, a carcinogenic.Arsenic is commonly found in gold mines, but in Paracatu it is of particular concern. For each tonne of rock removed only 0.4 grams of gold is recovered and 1kg of arsenic is released into the air and groundwater, according to M\u00e1rcio Jos\u00e9 dos Santos, a geologist and local activist.\u201cNobody knows how much arsenic is going to the city. The northeasterly wind here means that the arsenic travels in the air from the mine to the urban area. People are inhaling the toxic dust and consequently are inhaling arsenic,\u201d explains Jos\u00e9. Sergio Ulhoa Dani, a local physician and also an opponent of the mine, argued in a recent scientific article that \u201cthe potential damage of arsenic in a gold mine like the one in Paracatu could impact seven trillion people\u201d.Many in the city wonder if their life is at risk, while the word \u201ccancer\u201d has become a taboo. Data from Paracatu\u2019s city council shows that the cancer mortality rate in the town is similar to the rest of the country. Critics argue that statistics from the local government are unreliable. As Paracatu lacks medical institutions, patients must go to hospitals located hundreds of kilometres away to receive treatment and so are not counted in the city\u2019s official data.The attitude of the company is also under scrutiny. According to documents seen by The Guardian and interviews with former employees, several Kinross\u2019 employees worked as an intelligence unit to track any potential activity against the mine or the company\u2019s reputation.In an interview with the Guardian, Gilberto Azevedo, general manager of the mine, denied any risk to the health or the environment. \u201cWe monitor everything. People have nothing to fear, because we have everything under control. We regularly make environmental and biological tests, and we have hired external sources to carry studies. They all show there is no risk.\u201dHe also underlined the economic importance of the company\u2019s activity for the region. In 2014, Kinross paid about $10m in taxes and currently employs 3,300 people in the mine, about 8% of the active population in the city.However, tension is perceptible. As we drive through the public roads bordering the concession, an armed guard who had been following the car for an hour brings us to a halt and questions us.Dozens of documents and internal emails seen by The Guardian show that in 2012 and 2013 Kinross had a policy in Paracatu of regularly monitoring potential opponents, including the former mayor Almir Paraca \u2013 known for being outspoken against the mine \u2013 and several union leaders.\u201cThey monitor social movements, politicians, neighbourhood associations and their representatives, environmental activists, union leaders... They even monitor what some Kinross\u2019s employees do at their free time. The main goal is to hide or repress any action, demonstration or reference against the mining company or their interests\u201d, said one of the sources, knowledgeable of Kinross\u2019 policies because of his/her former post at the company. And at least two local activists \u2013 Rafaela Xavier Luiz and Evane Lopes - have had to leave the city in recent months after they received death threats, which they argue were linked to their opposition to the mine.\u201cWe have nothing to do with this. Kinross is a company that dialogues with the community,\u201d says Azevedo, when asked if the enterprise was in any way involved in the threats to activists. Kinross also denied it monitored activists or opponents.The social impact hub is funded by Anglo American. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cbrought to you by\u201d. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Gold", "Mining", "Business", "Environment", "Commodities", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canadian mining company spied on opponents and activists in Brazil"},{"date": "2015-05-22T13:58:17Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I wrote last summer about our plan to run citizen reporting programmes in different parts of the world. The aim is to train marginalised people and communities to bring forth burning issues and stories that, perhaps, the national and international media are overlooking. In June we visited South Africa, and October India. Now we\u2019ve just returned from Brazil.Twenty people came from all parts of the country to take part in a two-day workshop. The training covered storytelling, evidence-finding, verification, ethics, social media and the ways participants can connect to us directly through digital platforms such as GuardianWitness.The stories they brought in were extraordinary, covering indigenous rights in the Amazon, Olympic relocations, young people in the favelas, sex workers during the World Cup, and life for Bolivian and Syrian migrants. One of our trained citizen reporters, Luis Adorno, collaborated with our Latin America correspondent Jon Watts on a murder story in Sao Paulo. We plan to use their work as part of a big piece on violence across Brazil. \u2018A Year in a Favela\u2019 will chart the period immediately before the Olympics, with our newly trained citizen reporters in Mar\u00e9, Alem\u00e3o and Rocinha delivering monthly updates.We have also commissioned a \u2018How I Go to School\u2019 video series with children from rural areas in Brazil. Several participants said education was their priority, especially the problems that many children face getting to school. One landless worker told us of students who had to walk for two hours across a river after their old school was shut down. Favela residents described long bus journeys even to reach city schools. Indigenous groups spoke of the challenges faced by children who have to go by boat through the forest.Our correspondent is in touch with citizen reporter Tonico Benites in order to plan a visit to Guarani Kaoiwa for a feature article about Brazil\u2019s other indigenous people, and how they are not the photogenic jungle-dwellers of the world\u2019s imagination, but live in much worse conditions. Finally - for now - we also commissioned an opinion piece about the threat posed by miners and loggers to the village of Itaituba.These workshops showed us that there is still a great deal out there, sadly, which the national and international media are not covering. You just have to let people tell their stories...", "tags": ["Global development", "Environmental sustainability", "Society", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Uncovering unheard voices of Brazil..."},{"date": "2015-05-14T17:37:31Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Food retailers such as McDonald\u2019s, Krispy Kreme, Dunkin Donuts, as well as agribusinesses like Cargill, are among the big companies to recently make zero-deforestation pledges. But do these commitments achieve anything other than PR for food companies? New research indicates they might.A study published Tuesday in the journal Conservation Letters says that public agreements made by beef suppliers in Brazilhave had a real impact on rancher and slaughterhouse behavior in the Amazon. A team led by Holly Gibbs of the University of Wisconsin-Madison observed data on land use in the state of Par\u00e1 before and after a 2009 agreement by major meatpacking companies to remove deforestation from their supply chain. The researchers found that the deforestation rate among ranch owners they studied has since been cut in half. The agreement, signed by meatpacking companies JBS-Friboi, Minerva, Marfrig and Bertin, imposed a moratorium on buying cattle linked to deforestation in Brazil, where nearly two-thirds of deforested land is used as cattle pasture. The meatpacking companies also agreed to monitor their supply chain and only purchase cattle from farms in Brazil\u2019s environmental registry, Cadastro Ambiental Rural (CAR). They also refused to buy from cattle farms that had recently cleared forest land or in any way employed slave labor.Gibbs and her team of researchers tracked the land use of farms working with JBS-Friboi \u2013 the world\u2019s largest meat packing company - between 2008 and 2013. They used satellite data to monitor deforestation, gathere public data on land registration and survey cattle ranchers on their behavior.Before the agreement, 40% of JBS-Friboi\u2019s direct suppliers were linked to recent deforestation. By 2013, the number had fallen to less than 4%. Related: McDonald's to axe deforestation from its global supply chain Cattle rearing in Brazil is a complex process in which cattle are calved, reared and fattened in different locations before arriving at slaughterhouses. Meatpacking companies that supply beef to food giants such as McDonald\u2019s are only one stop in a supply-chain that relies on an assortment of cattle suppliers.This makes tracing cattle and ensuring that it is entirely deforestation-free nearly impossible. However, the agreement quickly changed the behavior of all major suppliers to JBS-Friboi, the researchers found.\u201cWe see that the ranchers that continue to sell to JBS after the agreement reduced their deforestation rates dramatically and had much lower deforestation rates than properties that sold before the agreement,\u201d Gibbs says. Most importantly, these changes happened in a matter of months. \u201cThis is in sharp contrast to things like the Brazilian forest code,\u201d says Gibbs, referring to a controversial piece of legislation that regulates forest reserves, \u201cwhich takes years to effectively implement\u201d.The beef agreement was not the first major anti-deforestation pledge by corporations. A similar agreement, the Amazon Soy Moratorium, signed by major food corporations in 2006, has also had success in fighting deforestation. The voluntary pledge to stop buying soy linked to deforestationwas extended a third time, to mid-2016, late last year.  Related: Soy may be next on the no-deforestation hit list, but policies will take time to make an impact Researcher Holly Gibbs says these sorts of agreements are growing in popularity. Large businesses concerned about international market access have incentive to avoid the increasingly bad publicity tied to habitat destruction. In response to public pressure, Gibbs says, \u201cWe see that the agribusiness powerhouses like ADM (Archer Daniels Midland) and McDonald\u2019s are promising to delink agricultural production from tropical deforestation.\u201d \u201cThere are about 95 slaughterhouses in the legal Amazon,\u201d Gibbs says, \u201cand about 65 of them have signed some type of zero-deforestation commitment, but many of them still don\u2019t have monitoring systems.\u201dHowever, there are limitations to what these agreements can achieve. The voluntary system is easy to get around, the researchers found. Some of the ranchers Gibbs\u2019 team spoke to explained that they could go \u201cright past JBS slaughterhouse and sell to their neighboring slaughterhouse\u201d. Monitoring only direct sales to meatpacking companies leaves the supply chain open to cattle laundering, where cattle may be reared in deforested land but sold to other compliant farms before they arrive at slaughterhouses.  Related: Apple is protecting forests by buying them up But Gibbs is optimistic. The pledge has not seemed to hurt the beef market or negatively affect the meatpacking business. JBS-Friboi, which operated nine slaughterhouses in 2009, has ramped up operations to 32 in 2013, four years after the agreement. The company did not pay higher prices to compliant ranch owners. While Gibbs says there has been a great deal of momentum towards putting monitoring systems in place, agribusinesses, consumers and activists should continue to demand zero deforestation in the supply chain. \u201cThere are a lot of positive signs that with continued investment in these systems, it could really pay dividends for forest conservation,\u201d Gibbs says. \u201cBut we certainly need more work.\u201dThe role of business in development hub is funded by Business Call to Action. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cbrought to you by\u201d. Find out more here.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Food", "Deforestation", "McDonald's", "Walmart", "Brazil", "Environment", "Business", "Ethical business", "Americas", "Conservation", "Trees and forests", "World news"], "title": "Brazil beef industry pledges cut Amazon deforestation"},{"date": "2015-06-30T17:49:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Barack Obama and Dilma Rousseff put climate change at the top of their agenda at their bilateral meeting on Tuesday, with the US and Brazil agreeing to obtain up to 20% of their electricity from renewable power by 2030.Brazil also committed to restoring up to 12m hectares of forest \u2013 an area about the size of England or Pennsylvania \u2013 in another attempt to reduce the carbon pollution that causes climate change.The White House said the initiatives were part of a new US-Brazil climate partnership, loosely modelled on the historic US-China agreement reached during Obama\u2019s visit to Beijing last November, intended to build momentum for a global deal to fight climate change in Paris at the end of the year.\u201cFollowing progress during my trips to China and India, this shows that the world\u2019s major economies can begin to transcend some of the old divides and work together to confront the common challenge that we face,\u201d said Obama at a joint press conference with his Brazilian counterpart. Rousseff also heralded the agreement as a highlight of her trip, claiming it would help progress towards a global emissions reductions agreement at upcoming talks in Paris.\u201cClimate change is one of the central challenges of the 21st century,\u201d she said. \u201cAnd we have one important objective, which is, number one, to ensure that the energy mix in our two countries will have a substantial share of renewable sources of energy.\u201cAs countries that are as vast as continents, we have this very important greenhouse gas emissions target,\u201d added Rousseff. \u201cWe attach a great deal of importance to reducing [deforestation].. and we also wish to turn the page and engage in a clear-cut reforestation-oriented policy.\u201dThe pledge will require the US to triple its production of wind and solar power and other renewable energies. Brazil will need to double its production of clean energy. The figures do not include hydro power.\u201cThis is a big deal,\u201d Brian Deese, the White House climate adviser, told a call with reporters.He said putting climate change at the centre of the US-Brazil relationship would help drive action on the issue. \u201cWe are shining a spotlight on the issues and elevating the conversation around them,\u201d he said.Rich and poor countries alike have been putting forth their commitments, known as nationally determined contributions, to reduce emissions as part of the treaty, which world leaders hope to finalise later this year in Paris. Brazil also plans to expand renewable energy sources other than hydropower to between 28% and 33% of its total energy mix by 2030.And in the electricity sector, the US and Brazil jointly announced intentions to increase their share of renewable, non-hydropower sources to 20% by 2030. Deese said boosting renewables that high in the US would be dependent on controversial power plant emission limits that the Obama administration has proposed.\u201cWe believe that this is an ambitious target, but one that is actually achievable and will create new low-cost opportunities for the American economy,\u201d Deese said. \u201cTo achieve it, we\u2019re going to have to continue to hit our marks in implementing the regulations we\u2019ve identified to date.\u201d Related: Brazil's gamble on deep water oil The US has already announced its full commitment to the climate treaty: a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions of up to 28% by 2025, compared with 2005 levels. But a key sticking point in the climate treaty has been whether developing countries like Brazil will be willing to make substantial contributions. Poorer nations have balked, arguing that industrialised nations that have polluted more historically bear more of the responsibility for curbing climate change.The announcement comes on the second day of Rousseff\u2019s visit to Washington, where she met with Obama in the Oval Office on Tuesday morning.In their visit, Obama and Rousseff have been working to show they have moved beyond tensions sparked by the revelation nearly two years ago that the US was spying on Rousseff. She cancelled a planned state visit in response. Officials in both countries say neither leader is interested in rehashing the spying issues this week and instead want to focus on ways to deepen cooperation.The Associated Press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Brazil", "Obama administration", "Dilma Rousseff", "Deforestation", "World news", "US news", "Trees and forests", "Environment", "Conservation", "Americas", "Gas", "Energy", "Barack Obama", "Climate change"], "title": "Brazil announces massive reforestation and renewable energy plan with US"},{"date": "2015-06-16T11:16:46Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Last July, Patricia fatally stabbed a female relative of her then-partner in a confrontation, provoked by what she described as continuous, poisonous innuendo. \u201cI couldn\u2019t stand it any more,\u201d she said. \u201cI took the life of another person.\u201d She was just 17.A heated debate over whether teenagers who commit violent crimes can be rehabilitated, or should be tried as adults and incarcerated in the country\u2019s packed and dangerous prisons, has split Brazil. High-profile violent crimes involving adolescents have inflamed the issue and polarised opinion around a controversial measure in congress to lower the age of criminal responsibility from 18 to 16. A vote is planned this month.Elisa Rodrigues, director of the Aldaci Barbosa Mota youth detention centre in Fortaleza where Patricia \u2013 whose name has been changed for legal reasons \u2013 is jailed, said Patricia understands the damage she caused and is suffering with the separation from her two-year-old son, Nicolas.\u201cThe person she killed had a serious involvement in drugs,\u201d Rodrigues said.Reducing the age of penal majority will not resolve the problem of juvenile delinquencyAlthough economic growth in Ceara, a state in Brazil\u2019s north-east, outperforms that of the country as a whole, murder rates in Fortaleza more than doubled in the 10 years ending in 2012, reaching 76.8 per 100,000 people, according to the Violence Map produced by the Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences. Fortaleza was listed as the eighth-most violent city in the world in 2014 in a report by Security, Justice and Peace, a Mexican nongovernmental organisation.Under current Brazilian law, teenage offenders like Patricia are detained for a maximum of three years at \u201ceducational centres\u201d to be \u201cre-socialised\u201d.\u201cNo one can change what has passed. But I can change my tomorrow,\u201d said Patricia, now 18, who takes academic, school, beauty and dance classes. \u201cI can become a better person.\u201dIn an April poll by the Datafolha polling institute, 87% of respondents supported the proposal to reduce the age of criminal majority. Pepper spray was used on protesters demonstrating against it in congress last week. \u201cOur primitive leftists think that murder is the eve of redemption,\u201d rightwing columnist Reinaldo Azevedo wrote in the Folha de S Paulo newspaper.Opponents counter that throwing teenagers into Brazil\u2019s notoriously brutal and overcrowded adult prisons, where criminal gangs rule, riots are common and decapitations are not unheard of, is no solution \u2013 even if convicted adolescents serve time in separate prisons or units.\u201cReducing the age of penal majority will not resolve the problem of juvenile delinquency,\u201d President Dilma Rousseff wrote on her Facebook page in April. Her government may support a counterproposal to increase the maximum adolescent detention to 10 years.Black-clad police Swat teams patrol Fortaleza streets in groups of four: three ride motorbikes, and one with an automatic rifle rides on the back of one of the bikes. On a recent afternoon they arrested two teenage boys on a motorbike who had just held up a motorcycle shop.In Ceara, about 31% of violent crimes are committed by adolescentsThe battered .38-caliber revolver used in the holdup was dropped on to officer Rachel Moreira\u2019s desk at the city\u2019s Child and Adolescent Police Station. \u201cThe most everyday infractions are robberies with the use of weapons,\u201d she said, locking it in a filing cabinet.She said that reducing the penal age alone would not have an impact on crime levels and that wider changes to the law are needed. \u201cThese people of 16, 17 years are aware of the crime,\u201d countered her deputy, officer Emerson de Sousa, who supports the age reduction. Soldier Xavier, one of the arresting officers, said that more education, not reduction, is what\u2019s needed.In Ceara, about 31% of violent crimes are committed by adolescents, the Folha de S Paulo newspaper calculated from state government figures. \u201cThe motivation is drugs,\u201d said Manuel Cl\u00edstenes, chief judge at Fortaleza\u2019s childhood and juvenile court.Brazil\u2019s crack cocaine epidemic has hit Fortaleza hard. Marijuana is cheap and widely used. Adulterated cocaine has flooded poorer neighbourhoods. Offenders are generally from the lowest social classes. \u201cThere is always the criteria of [abandonment]. Rarely does an individual come who has a mother and father, from the middle class,\u201d Cl\u00edstenes said.Casa do Menor is a nongovernmental organisation that houses teenage boys with drug problems in one of its centres in Ceara. Pablo, 12, whose name has been changed for legal reasons, was its only resident on a recent morning. He said his mother, a crack addict, had died with a \u201clung full of ashes, sick\u201d. She was pregnant.\u201cThe majority of my family is of this world,\u201d he said. \u201cFor someone to enter is easy, you can go in, you can buy drugs. But to get out? You stay.\u201dPablo had lived on the street, dealt drugs, and used a knife and gun in assaults at a Fortaleza beach, he said. Now he wanted to clean up. \u201cI cried when I came here,\u201d he said. \u201cEveryone received me well.\u201dThe Rev Renato Chiera, an Italian priest, founded Casa do Menor in Nova Iguacu, near Rio de Janeiro, in 1986 to shelter local homeless children threatened by vigilantes. Adolescents such as Pablo need psychological and spiritual treatment, Cheira said, not jail. \u201cThe narco-traffic has become the refuge for these kids,\u201d he said.But rehabilitating teenage drug users is a long, difficult process. In April, the centre\u2019s other five residents escaped to buy crack, cocaine and marijuana. They assaulted a bus using weapons they had fashioned out of metal and wire. Afterward, they sought out one of the centre\u2019s workers, frightened of the consequences of what they had done. Four are back with their families. The fifth was killed by a dealer.Cl\u00edstenes advocated changes in the law applying to children and teenagers, with longer detention for serious crimes and older and repeat offenders. In a letter to congressional leaders and Rousseff, Human Rights Watch said that reducing the age of criminal majority would violate international treaties signed by Brazil, such as the UN convention on the rights of the child.The letter quoted a US justice department bulletin citing research suggesting that trying teenagers as adults in the United States had led to higher levels of re-offending. \u201cThe solution is not to send them to adult prison,\u201d said Maria Laura Canineu, Human Rights Watch\u2019s Brazil director. \u201cThis will give them a certificate in crime.\u201dOn a recent afternoon, 187 boys were locked in their cells at Fortaleza\u2019s S\u00e3o Miguel educational centre, which has a capacity of 60. Cells with concrete beds for four housed up to a dozen on grubby mattresses on the floor.Inmates shared more stories of the violence sweeping Brazilian society \u2013 an armed mugging, a knifing death the perpetrator said was self-defence. According to government estimates, fewer than 8% of Brazil\u2019s homicides are solved \u2013 a fundamental problem that reducing the age of criminal majority is unlikely to change.This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from the Washington Post", "tags": ["Brazil", "Drugs trade", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil divided over how to deal with its teenage criminals"},{"date": "2015-06-03T11:05:19Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Eduardo Gomes needs to find an imam who can certify halal meat fast.The 34-year old foreign and domestic sales manager of Frigo Estrela, a meat-packing company located in the countryside of S\u00e3o Paulo state, has just accepted a 1,000-tonne order from Iran.He\u2019s bought the cattle, booked the container and even reserved a space on a cargo ship. But now the imam he normally uses to approve his meat is sick with a suspected case of dengue fever. Unless Gomes can find another imam, or a different buyer for his non-halal meat, Frigo Estela stands to suffer a big loss.\u201cWhen one of our workers gets sick, I can\u2019t just replace him with another,\u201d he said. \u201cEveryone here has a particular role.\u201dThe scarcity of imams is just the latest problem for the company, caused by the high incidence of dengue fever in the town of Estrela d\u2019Oeste. Related: US harvest threatened by water-intensive oil and gas boom From the start of the year until 9 May, Brazil registered a total of 845,900 cases of the virus, equivalent to around 0.4% of the population; in Estrela d\u2019Oeste (pop. 8,208), there have been over 1,500 suspected cases, according to the town\u2019s health department. At least 536 of those cases have been confirmed.S\u00e3o Paulo is experiencing its most severe drought in decades, after three years of below-average rainfall. Rationing has led to many Brazilians stock-piling water. Unsecured containers provide ideal breeding grounds for the Aedes Aegypti mosquito, which carries the disease. On 14 May the health minister, Arthur Chioro, stated that Brazil was experiencing an \u201cepidemic\u201d of dengue fever.According to the World Health Organization, an epidemic is over 300 cases per 100,000; in Brazil\u2019s south-east the figure is 648.1. The number of cases this year is over 200% more than the same period of 2014, but lower than in 2013, when over 1.2 million Brazilians were infected.At least 229 Brazilians have died in 2015 due to the disease, which is characterised by flu-like symptoms, fever and vomiting. As yet, there is no vaccine and no cure. Treatment involves relieving the symptoms through hydration and serum.For Frigo Estrela, which employs over 2,000, most of whom are from the town, the disease has taken its toll. Gomes said that 35% of his workforce has been off sick over the past five months, not including those who took time off to care for relatives.To minimise its impact, staff have been given lessons in how to proof both the workplace and their homes against the disease. A new six-strong inspection team, wearing protective overalls, gloves and eye-masks, patrols the grounds of the 92,000 square metre complex every day, armed with a check-list and a powerful insecticide.But the chemicals used by both private companies and public health authorities to fumigate are expensive, environmentally harmful and only provide a temporary solution.In all, Gomes estimates the preventative measures are costing him R$50,000 (US$17,000) a month, and he is critical of the local authorities for failing to do more to prevent the spread of the disease.\u201cThey have been far too passive,\u201d he said. \u201cIt\u2019s like they are waiting for some kind of divine intervention.\u201dIn the local hospital, Eliana Ralho, 34, the municipal health coordinator, strongly disagrees. According to Ralho, the town\u2019s health department has done even more than the state guidelines recommend.\u201cWe are supposed to have one health worker for every 1,000 houses,\u201d she said. \u201cHere we have 3,000 houses and five health workers, going door to door, every weekday, looking for possible breeding sites, spraying when necessary and educating people on how to minimise the risk.\u201dIn early May, the town council passed a law allowing the local police to fine residents a minimum of R$75 (US$25) if they fail to clear their properties of possible breeding grounds after a warning from a health worker. Ms Ralho thinks the threat of fines is starting to have an effect.Inside the hospital, Arquimedes Pichazzi, 76, another of the town\u2019s suspected cases of dengue, blames the carelessness of local residents for the outbreak. \u201cI think the authorities are doing a good job,\u201d he said. It\u2019s the people here who are too relaxed about the disease.\u201dSince January, Brazil\u2019s health ministry has spent R$150m (US$50m) fighting dengue. Most of the money has gone to health authorities in towns like Estrela d\u2019Oeste, to fund preventative measures, such as house visits and education programmes.But given the difficulty of halting the spread of dengue, public and private organisations based in Brazil are working on other solutions. Related: Genetically engineered mosquitoes could be vital weapon against malaria Instituto Butantan, a state-run biomedical facility in S\u00e3o Paulo, is in its third phase of vaccine testing, while Sanofi, the French pharmaceutical company, claims to have produced a vaccine that results in a 60% prevention rate for all strains of the disease.Oxitec, a British company, has created a genetically-modified variant of the Aedes Aegypti which mates with the native mosquito population to produce offspring which die before reaching maturity.While field trials are taking place in various Brazilian municipalities, environmentalists have expressed concern over the unintended consequences of releasing swarms of GM mosquitoes.Oxitech has not yet received clearance to market its technology to the private sector. But Mr Gomes said he was offering to fund the town health department\u2019s purchase of the Oxitech mosquitos.On 26 May the health ministry said that the worst of the outbreak appears to be over. But until researchers develop a more permanent solution, recent history suggests the disease is likely to return soon.Additional reporting by Amanda Moreth", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Water", "Environment", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil considers vaccines and GM mosquitoes to tackle dengue fever"},{"date": "2015-05-13T10:39:44Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Despite her advanced age, Juliana Morais da Costa still retains enough strength in her hands to hold the heavy bateia. \u201cI began to pan gold when I was five. We started at 5am until 4pm. It was tough work, but I did it because it was the only way to be economically independent,\u201d remembers Morais, 86.Her home city of Paracatu is the epicentre of Brazil\u2019s mining production, in the north of the state of Minas Gerais, which generates almost one-third of Brazil\u2019s total mining production.The exploitation of gold started in Paracatu as early as 1722. But the days of the garimpeiros, or gold hunters, are long gone. Since the 1990s the hunt has moved from the river banks to underground deposits. Dynamite, excavators and chemicals replaced the garimpeiros, who were pushed out from a business that had sustained hundreds of families.In 2005, Canadian company Kinross \u2013 which is listed in the New York Stock Exchange and owns gold mines in Chile, United States, Russia and Ghana, among other countries \u2013 took over the mining concession in Paracatu. During a period in which gold prices rose to historical new heights in global markets, Kinross invested $1.86bn in the site, tripling annual production to the current 15 tonnes and making Paracatu the most productive gold mine in Brazil. As the gold in Paracatu takes the form of a powder and not grain or nuggets, the company had to greatly intensify mining activities to keep production up. Today as many as 160 dynamite explosions are carried out daily to dig the Morro do Ouro, the Golden Hill, as locals refer to the area where the main deposits are found.As a consequence, the local geography has been profoundly transformed. As you approach the mining area we witness an immense crater that covers 615 hectares, half the size of Heathrow\u2019s airport, and resembles a lunar landscape. The only signs of life are the imposing bulldozers and the high-wheeled vehicles that transport the rocks to the plant. There, toxic chemicals, including cyanide, are employed to separate out the gold powder, which is later molten in ingots and transported by helicopter to S\u00e3o Paulo for export around the globe.While the visual impact seems hard to deny \u2013 in addition to the mining area, two large dams the size of an extra Heathrow airport are used for toxic waste disposal \u2013 many argue that the mine poses a threat to the local environment and to the health of the 90,000 Paracatu residents. Not only is dynamite used to access the gold reserves as close as 200 metres from the urban area, the precious metal is mixed in the rock with arsenic, a carcinogenic.Arsenic is commonly found in gold mines, but in Paracatu it is of particular concern. For each tonne of rock removed only 0.4 grams of gold is recovered and 1kg of arsenic is released into the air and groundwater, according to M\u00e1rcio Jos\u00e9 dos Santos, a geologist and local activist.\u201cNobody knows how much arsenic is going to the city. The northeasterly wind here means that the arsenic travels in the air from the mine to the urban area. People are inhaling the toxic dust and consequently are inhaling arsenic,\u201d explains Jos\u00e9. Sergio Ulhoa Dani, a local physician and also an opponent of the mine, argued in a recent scientific article that \u201cthe potential damage of arsenic in a gold mine like the one in Paracatu could impact seven trillion people\u201d.Many in the city wonder if their life is at risk, while the word \u201ccancer\u201d has become a taboo. Data from Paracatu\u2019s city council shows that the cancer mortality rate in the town is similar to the rest of the country. Critics argue that statistics from the local government are unreliable. As Paracatu lacks medical institutions, patients must go to hospitals located hundreds of kilometres away to receive treatment and so are not counted in the city\u2019s official data.The attitude of the company is also under scrutiny. According to documents seen by The Guardian and interviews with former employees, several Kinross\u2019 employees worked as an intelligence unit to track any potential activity against the mine or the company\u2019s reputation.In an interview with the Guardian, Gilberto Azevedo, general manager of the mine, denied any risk to the health or the environment. \u201cWe monitor everything. People have nothing to fear, because we have everything under control. We regularly make environmental and biological tests, and we have hired external sources to carry studies. They all show there is no risk.\u201dHe also underlined the economic importance of the company\u2019s activity for the region. In 2014, Kinross paid about $10m in taxes and currently employs 3,300 people in the mine, about 8% of the active population in the city.However, tension is perceptible. As we drive through the public roads bordering the concession, an armed guard who had been following the car for an hour brings us to a halt and questions us.Dozens of documents and internal emails seen by The Guardian show that in 2012 and 2013 Kinross had a policy in Paracatu of regularly monitoring potential opponents, including the former mayor Almir Paraca \u2013 known for being outspoken against the mine \u2013 and several union leaders.\u201cThey monitor social movements, politicians, neighbourhood associations and their representatives, environmental activists, union leaders... They even monitor what some Kinross\u2019s employees do at their free time. The main goal is to hide or repress any action, demonstration or reference against the mining company or their interests\u201d, said one of the sources, knowledgeable of Kinross\u2019 policies because of his/her former post at the company. And at least two local activists \u2013 Rafaela Xavier Luiz and Evane Lopes - have had to leave the city in recent months after they received death threats, which they argue were linked to their opposition to the mine.\u201cWe have nothing to do with this. Kinross is a company that dialogues with the community,\u201d says Azevedo, when asked if the enterprise was in any way involved in the threats to activists. Kinross also denied it monitored activists or opponents.The social impact hub is funded by Anglo American. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cbrought to you by\u201d. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Gold", "Mining", "Business", "Environment", "Commodities", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canadian mining company spied on opponents and activists in Brazil"},{"date": "2015-05-04T16:57:31Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Amid what is normally considered the rainy season, Brazil, the home of the Amazon River, is suffering from a historic, punishing drought.In a country accustomed to ample water supplies, neighbors are turning against neighbors and hoarding water as taps run dry while businesses close and protesters take to the streets. Some have even speculated that S\u00e3o Paulo, one of the world\u2019s largest cities, is failing. The costs of a drought are many \u2013 water rationing, fines for consumption and constraints on agriculture and industrial production. But for Brazil, a water shortage also leads to another problem: more than 75% of Brazil\u2019s power comes from hydroelectric sources, making it second only to China in reliance on hydroelectric power. The water crisis is pushing Brazil to take extreme measures to save water even as low water levels are decimating its hydropower supplies, leading to rolling power cuts across the country.With its rainforest, favelas and megacities, Brazil is a huge piece of the puzzle for many of the world\u2019s biggest sustainability goals, and the country has loomed large in environmental discussions since it held the Rio+20 climate talks in 2012. Water courses through many of Brazil\u2019s biggest sustainability challenges. Not only does water rationing exacerbate the divide between rich and poor in the highly stratified country, but water pollution and water quality issues are threatening the country\u2019s next turn on the world stage: the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, which arrive just two years after the 2014 FIFA World Cup. Pollution in Guanabara Bay, where Olympic sailing and windsurfing contests are scheduled to be held, is so bad that competitors have described it as an \u201copen sewer\u201d. More than 40 tons of dead fish have been removed from a lake slated to host the rowing contests. Preparations for the Olympics are suffering from widespread dissatisfaction after last year\u2019s FIFA World Cup. The massive investments to build stadiums and host as many as a million football tourists for the soccer blowout sparked large protests from city residents left out of the economic boom, who complain they are paying higher costs of living without seeing increased services. Brazil is in many ways an island nation unto itself \u2013 it\u2019s practically its own Portuguese-speaking continent amid the sea of Spanish Latin America. But it also faces challenges that are familiar across the BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) countries: social inequality, human rights, energy, water, and climate change are all taking a toll on the country\u2019s present and future.Add to these the importance of caring for the Amazon rainforest \u2013 the \u201clungs of the planet\u201d, which stores more carbon dioxide than anywhere else on Earth \u2013 and it becomes clear why social and environmental progress in Brazil is at least as important as its economic growth.Deforestation in the Amazon Basin has long been a thorn in Brazil\u2019s side. Not only do numerous human rights and indigenous peoples\u2019 rights threats arise from deforestation, but researchers recently directly connected Amazonian deforestation to the horrific drought in southern Brazil.Fortunately, there is some good news. Over the past decade, Brazil has lowered its carbon dioxide output more than any other country through a historic effort to slow forest loss: it reduced deforestation 18% last year. Now, other countries are trying to follow Brazil\u2019s lead in the war on tropical deforestation.  Related: Why Brazil's megadrought is a Wall Street failure During Cop 20, the UN climate change conference in Lima last year, Brazilian authorities announced a plan to develop a monitoring system in partnership with the Amazon Cooperation Treat Organization. Around $8m will be spent in satellite data analysis, training, and equipment to be used for monitoring deforestation in all seven countries that are part of the group.Brazil\u2019s megacities also have become home to many of the innovations and disruptions taking root in the US and Europe. Startups working under the banner of the sharing economy such as Uber and Airbnb have found a home in Rio and S\u00e3o Paulo. The B Corporation social and environmental business certification launched in Brazil in 2012 as Sistema B, and just two years later became the home of the world\u2019s first publicly traded B Corp as cosmetics maker Natura earned Sistema B certification.While environmental stewardship is a less-than-common commitment among large Brazilian companies or multinationals doing business in Brazil, the country is host to a thriving social entrepreneurship sector. A number of social entrepreneurship funds operate across Brazil, bankrolling small operations to fight poverty, inequality, and expand educational and economic opportunities among the poor and disadvantaged.Brazil casts a big shadow across South America, despite its continental size and generally inward focus. As Brazil\u2019s development bank invests in more projects across its borders, it brings the promise of more economic opportunity to its less-wealthy neighbors \u2013 but also the risk of stepping on toes and stirring anti-Brazilian anger. Road-building projects in Guyana and Bolivia, a mining project in Argentina, and Brazilian emigration into Paraguay for agricultural projects have all recently incited opposition from neighboring governments and citizens.Just as Brazil weighs heavily across Latin America, it too lives in the shadow of China. Economically, the mid-2000s were Brazil\u2019s golden years. The nation averaged a healthy 4% growth, propelled by high exports \u2013 particularly to China \u2013 as well as a spike in domestic consumption. During these boom times, Brazilians saw a bright future just over the horizon. Then came the 2008 global market crash.  Related: S\u00e3o Paulo \u2013 anatomy of a failing megacity: residents struggle as water taps run dry As their export partners slowed their demand, Brazil\u2019s economy followed suit: in 2009, the economy shrank for the first time since 1992, sending shockwaves throughout the country.The rise and fall and rise again of Brazil\u2019s economy is taking place during what may turn out to be the pivotal moment in the global environmental movement. As Brazil responds to extreme drought, high-stakes deforestation, and pollution and human rights challenges, and as the country steps up to the world stage for the Olympics, its decisions will ripple not only to neighboring countries and the BRICs, but throughout the world.One example of this economic muscle-flexing is the recently proposed development of a new BRICs-led global development bank. Offered as an alternative to the World Bank and IMF, the New Development Bank proposed by China, Russia, India, Brazil and South Africa would emphasize sustainable development around the world without the punishing restrictions required by World Bank loans. While the aim of the NDB is to free BRICs and other developing economies from the status quo, observers caution that if the bank truly wants to change the course of sustainable development it must put human rights and the environment at the center of its charter. Government, business, environmental and civil leaders will be watching closely to find out whether the country will end up being a model for sustainable development or a cautionary tale.Siri Srinivas and Ana Athayde contributed reporting to this article.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Brazil", "Climate change", "Environment", "Climate change", "Climate change", "Drought", "Water", "Olympic Games 2016", "World news", "Americas", "Pollution", "Sustainable development", "Olympic Games", "Business"], "title": "Brazil struggles with drought and pollution as Olympics loom large"},{"date": "2015-05-22T13:58:17Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "I wrote last summer about our plan to run citizen reporting programmes in different parts of the world. The aim is to train marginalised people and communities to bring forth burning issues and stories that, perhaps, the national and international media are overlooking. In June we visited South Africa, and October India. Now we\u2019ve just returned from Brazil.Twenty people came from all parts of the country to take part in a two-day workshop. The training covered storytelling, evidence-finding, verification, ethics, social media and the ways participants can connect to us directly through digital platforms such as GuardianWitness.The stories they brought in were extraordinary, covering indigenous rights in the Amazon, Olympic relocations, young people in the favelas, sex workers during the World Cup, and life for Bolivian and Syrian migrants. One of our trained citizen reporters, Luis Adorno, collaborated with our Latin America correspondent Jon Watts on a murder story in Sao Paulo. We plan to use their work as part of a big piece on violence across Brazil. \u2018A Year in a Favela\u2019 will chart the period immediately before the Olympics, with our newly trained citizen reporters in Mar\u00e9, Alem\u00e3o and Rocinha delivering monthly updates.We have also commissioned a \u2018How I Go to School\u2019 video series with children from rural areas in Brazil. Several participants said education was their priority, especially the problems that many children face getting to school. One landless worker told us of students who had to walk for two hours across a river after their old school was shut down. Favela residents described long bus journeys even to reach city schools. Indigenous groups spoke of the challenges faced by children who have to go by boat through the forest.Our correspondent is in touch with citizen reporter Tonico Benites in order to plan a visit to Guarani Kaoiwa for a feature article about Brazil\u2019s other indigenous people, and how they are not the photogenic jungle-dwellers of the world\u2019s imagination, but live in much worse conditions. Finally - for now - we also commissioned an opinion piece about the threat posed by miners and loggers to the village of Itaituba.These workshops showed us that there is still a great deal out there, sadly, which the national and international media are not covering. You just have to let people tell their stories...", "tags": ["Global development", "Environmental sustainability", "Society", "Sustainable development", "Environment"], "title": "Uncovering unheard voices of Brazil..."},{"date": "2015-05-14T17:37:31Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Food retailers such as McDonald\u2019s, Krispy Kreme, Dunkin Donuts, as well as agribusinesses like Cargill, are among the big companies to recently make zero-deforestation pledges. But do these commitments achieve anything other than PR for food companies? New research indicates they might.A study published Tuesday in the journal Conservation Letters says that public agreements made by beef suppliers in Brazilhave had a real impact on rancher and slaughterhouse behavior in the Amazon. A team led by Holly Gibbs of the University of Wisconsin-Madison observed data on land use in the state of Par\u00e1 before and after a 2009 agreement by major meatpacking companies to remove deforestation from their supply chain. The researchers found that the deforestation rate among ranch owners they studied has since been cut in half. The agreement, signed by meatpacking companies JBS-Friboi, Minerva, Marfrig and Bertin, imposed a moratorium on buying cattle linked to deforestation in Brazil, where nearly two-thirds of deforested land is used as cattle pasture. The meatpacking companies also agreed to monitor their supply chain and only purchase cattle from farms in Brazil\u2019s environmental registry, Cadastro Ambiental Rural (CAR). They also refused to buy from cattle farms that had recently cleared forest land or in any way employed slave labor.Gibbs and her team of researchers tracked the land use of farms working with JBS-Friboi \u2013 the world\u2019s largest meat packing company - between 2008 and 2013. They used satellite data to monitor deforestation, gathere public data on land registration and survey cattle ranchers on their behavior.Before the agreement, 40% of JBS-Friboi\u2019s direct suppliers were linked to recent deforestation. By 2013, the number had fallen to less than 4%. Related: McDonald's to axe deforestation from its global supply chain Cattle rearing in Brazil is a complex process in which cattle are calved, reared and fattened in different locations before arriving at slaughterhouses. Meatpacking companies that supply beef to food giants such as McDonald\u2019s are only one stop in a supply-chain that relies on an assortment of cattle suppliers.This makes tracing cattle and ensuring that it is entirely deforestation-free nearly impossible. However, the agreement quickly changed the behavior of all major suppliers to JBS-Friboi, the researchers found.\u201cWe see that the ranchers that continue to sell to JBS after the agreement reduced their deforestation rates dramatically and had much lower deforestation rates than properties that sold before the agreement,\u201d Gibbs says. Most importantly, these changes happened in a matter of months. \u201cThis is in sharp contrast to things like the Brazilian forest code,\u201d says Gibbs, referring to a controversial piece of legislation that regulates forest reserves, \u201cwhich takes years to effectively implement\u201d.The beef agreement was not the first major anti-deforestation pledge by corporations. A similar agreement, the Amazon Soy Moratorium, signed by major food corporations in 2006, has also had success in fighting deforestation. The voluntary pledge to stop buying soy linked to deforestationwas extended a third time, to mid-2016, late last year.  Related: Soy may be next on the no-deforestation hit list, but policies will take time to make an impact Researcher Holly Gibbs says these sorts of agreements are growing in popularity. Large businesses concerned about international market access have incentive to avoid the increasingly bad publicity tied to habitat destruction. In response to public pressure, Gibbs says, \u201cWe see that the agribusiness powerhouses like ADM (Archer Daniels Midland) and McDonald\u2019s are promising to delink agricultural production from tropical deforestation.\u201d \u201cThere are about 95 slaughterhouses in the legal Amazon,\u201d Gibbs says, \u201cand about 65 of them have signed some type of zero-deforestation commitment, but many of them still don\u2019t have monitoring systems.\u201dHowever, there are limitations to what these agreements can achieve. The voluntary system is easy to get around, the researchers found. Some of the ranchers Gibbs\u2019 team spoke to explained that they could go \u201cright past JBS slaughterhouse and sell to their neighboring slaughterhouse\u201d. Monitoring only direct sales to meatpacking companies leaves the supply chain open to cattle laundering, where cattle may be reared in deforested land but sold to other compliant farms before they arrive at slaughterhouses.  Related: Apple is protecting forests by buying them up But Gibbs is optimistic. The pledge has not seemed to hurt the beef market or negatively affect the meatpacking business. JBS-Friboi, which operated nine slaughterhouses in 2009, has ramped up operations to 32 in 2013, four years after the agreement. The company did not pay higher prices to compliant ranch owners. While Gibbs says there has been a great deal of momentum towards putting monitoring systems in place, agribusinesses, consumers and activists should continue to demand zero deforestation in the supply chain. \u201cThere are a lot of positive signs that with continued investment in these systems, it could really pay dividends for forest conservation,\u201d Gibbs says. \u201cBut we certainly need more work.\u201dThe role of business in development hub is funded by Business Call to Action. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cbrought to you by\u201d. Find out more here.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Food", "Deforestation", "McDonald's", "Walmart", "Brazil", "Environment", "Business", "Ethical business", "Americas", "Conservation", "Trees and forests", "World news"], "title": "Brazil beef industry pledges cut Amazon deforestation"},{"date": "2015-06-30T17:49:00Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Barack Obama and Dilma Rousseff put climate change at the top of their agenda at their bilateral meeting on Tuesday, with the US and Brazil agreeing to obtain up to 20% of their electricity from renewable power by 2030.Brazil also committed to restoring up to 12m hectares of forest \u2013 an area about the size of England or Pennsylvania \u2013 in another attempt to reduce the carbon pollution that causes climate change.The White House said the initiatives were part of a new US-Brazil climate partnership, loosely modelled on the historic US-China agreement reached during Obama\u2019s visit to Beijing last November, intended to build momentum for a global deal to fight climate change in Paris at the end of the year.\u201cFollowing progress during my trips to China and India, this shows that the world\u2019s major economies can begin to transcend some of the old divides and work together to confront the common challenge that we face,\u201d said Obama at a joint press conference with his Brazilian counterpart. Rousseff also heralded the agreement as a highlight of her trip, claiming it would help progress towards a global emissions reductions agreement at upcoming talks in Paris.\u201cClimate change is one of the central challenges of the 21st century,\u201d she said. \u201cAnd we have one important objective, which is, number one, to ensure that the energy mix in our two countries will have a substantial share of renewable sources of energy.\u201cAs countries that are as vast as continents, we have this very important greenhouse gas emissions target,\u201d added Rousseff. \u201cWe attach a great deal of importance to reducing [deforestation].. and we also wish to turn the page and engage in a clear-cut reforestation-oriented policy.\u201dThe pledge will require the US to triple its production of wind and solar power and other renewable energies. Brazil will need to double its production of clean energy. The figures do not include hydro power.\u201cThis is a big deal,\u201d Brian Deese, the White House climate adviser, told a call with reporters.He said putting climate change at the centre of the US-Brazil relationship would help drive action on the issue. \u201cWe are shining a spotlight on the issues and elevating the conversation around them,\u201d he said.Rich and poor countries alike have been putting forth their commitments, known as nationally determined contributions, to reduce emissions as part of the treaty, which world leaders hope to finalise later this year in Paris. Brazil also plans to expand renewable energy sources other than hydropower to between 28% and 33% of its total energy mix by 2030.And in the electricity sector, the US and Brazil jointly announced intentions to increase their share of renewable, non-hydropower sources to 20% by 2030. Deese said boosting renewables that high in the US would be dependent on controversial power plant emission limits that the Obama administration has proposed.\u201cWe believe that this is an ambitious target, but one that is actually achievable and will create new low-cost opportunities for the American economy,\u201d Deese said. \u201cTo achieve it, we\u2019re going to have to continue to hit our marks in implementing the regulations we\u2019ve identified to date.\u201d Related: Brazil's gamble on deep water oil The US has already announced its full commitment to the climate treaty: a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions of up to 28% by 2025, compared with 2005 levels. But a key sticking point in the climate treaty has been whether developing countries like Brazil will be willing to make substantial contributions. Poorer nations have balked, arguing that industrialised nations that have polluted more historically bear more of the responsibility for curbing climate change.The announcement comes on the second day of Rousseff\u2019s visit to Washington, where she met with Obama in the Oval Office on Tuesday morning.In their visit, Obama and Rousseff have been working to show they have moved beyond tensions sparked by the revelation nearly two years ago that the US was spying on Rousseff. She cancelled a planned state visit in response. Officials in both countries say neither leader is interested in rehashing the spying issues this week and instead want to focus on ways to deepen cooperation.The Associated Press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Brazil", "Obama administration", "Dilma Rousseff", "Deforestation", "World news", "US news", "Trees and forests", "Environment", "Conservation", "Americas", "Gas", "Energy", "Barack Obama", "Climate change"], "title": "Brazil announces massive reforestation and renewable energy plan with US"},{"date": "2015-06-16T11:16:46Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Last July, Patricia fatally stabbed a female relative of her then-partner in a confrontation, provoked by what she described as continuous, poisonous innuendo. \u201cI couldn\u2019t stand it any more,\u201d she said. \u201cI took the life of another person.\u201d She was just 17.A heated debate over whether teenagers who commit violent crimes can be rehabilitated, or should be tried as adults and incarcerated in the country\u2019s packed and dangerous prisons, has split Brazil. High-profile violent crimes involving adolescents have inflamed the issue and polarised opinion around a controversial measure in congress to lower the age of criminal responsibility from 18 to 16. A vote is planned this month.Elisa Rodrigues, director of the Aldaci Barbosa Mota youth detention centre in Fortaleza where Patricia \u2013 whose name has been changed for legal reasons \u2013 is jailed, said Patricia understands the damage she caused and is suffering with the separation from her two-year-old son, Nicolas.\u201cThe person she killed had a serious involvement in drugs,\u201d Rodrigues said.Reducing the age of penal majority will not resolve the problem of juvenile delinquencyAlthough economic growth in Ceara, a state in Brazil\u2019s north-east, outperforms that of the country as a whole, murder rates in Fortaleza more than doubled in the 10 years ending in 2012, reaching 76.8 per 100,000 people, according to the Violence Map produced by the Latin American Faculty of Social Sciences. Fortaleza was listed as the eighth-most violent city in the world in 2014 in a report by Security, Justice and Peace, a Mexican nongovernmental organisation.Under current Brazilian law, teenage offenders like Patricia are detained for a maximum of three years at \u201ceducational centres\u201d to be \u201cre-socialised\u201d.\u201cNo one can change what has passed. But I can change my tomorrow,\u201d said Patricia, now 18, who takes academic, school, beauty and dance classes. \u201cI can become a better person.\u201dIn an April poll by the Datafolha polling institute, 87% of respondents supported the proposal to reduce the age of criminal majority. Pepper spray was used on protesters demonstrating against it in congress last week. \u201cOur primitive leftists think that murder is the eve of redemption,\u201d rightwing columnist Reinaldo Azevedo wrote in the Folha de S Paulo newspaper.Opponents counter that throwing teenagers into Brazil\u2019s notoriously brutal and overcrowded adult prisons, where criminal gangs rule, riots are common and decapitations are not unheard of, is no solution \u2013 even if convicted adolescents serve time in separate prisons or units.\u201cReducing the age of penal majority will not resolve the problem of juvenile delinquency,\u201d President Dilma Rousseff wrote on her Facebook page in April. Her government may support a counterproposal to increase the maximum adolescent detention to 10 years.Black-clad police Swat teams patrol Fortaleza streets in groups of four: three ride motorbikes, and one with an automatic rifle rides on the back of one of the bikes. On a recent afternoon they arrested two teenage boys on a motorbike who had just held up a motorcycle shop.In Ceara, about 31% of violent crimes are committed by adolescentsThe battered .38-caliber revolver used in the holdup was dropped on to officer Rachel Moreira\u2019s desk at the city\u2019s Child and Adolescent Police Station. \u201cThe most everyday infractions are robberies with the use of weapons,\u201d she said, locking it in a filing cabinet.She said that reducing the penal age alone would not have an impact on crime levels and that wider changes to the law are needed. \u201cThese people of 16, 17 years are aware of the crime,\u201d countered her deputy, officer Emerson de Sousa, who supports the age reduction. Soldier Xavier, one of the arresting officers, said that more education, not reduction, is what\u2019s needed.In Ceara, about 31% of violent crimes are committed by adolescents, the Folha de S Paulo newspaper calculated from state government figures. \u201cThe motivation is drugs,\u201d said Manuel Cl\u00edstenes, chief judge at Fortaleza\u2019s childhood and juvenile court.Brazil\u2019s crack cocaine epidemic has hit Fortaleza hard. Marijuana is cheap and widely used. Adulterated cocaine has flooded poorer neighbourhoods. Offenders are generally from the lowest social classes. \u201cThere is always the criteria of [abandonment]. Rarely does an individual come who has a mother and father, from the middle class,\u201d Cl\u00edstenes said.Casa do Menor is a nongovernmental organisation that houses teenage boys with drug problems in one of its centres in Ceara. Pablo, 12, whose name has been changed for legal reasons, was its only resident on a recent morning. He said his mother, a crack addict, had died with a \u201clung full of ashes, sick\u201d. She was pregnant.\u201cThe majority of my family is of this world,\u201d he said. \u201cFor someone to enter is easy, you can go in, you can buy drugs. But to get out? You stay.\u201dPablo had lived on the street, dealt drugs, and used a knife and gun in assaults at a Fortaleza beach, he said. Now he wanted to clean up. \u201cI cried when I came here,\u201d he said. \u201cEveryone received me well.\u201dThe Rev Renato Chiera, an Italian priest, founded Casa do Menor in Nova Iguacu, near Rio de Janeiro, in 1986 to shelter local homeless children threatened by vigilantes. Adolescents such as Pablo need psychological and spiritual treatment, Cheira said, not jail. \u201cThe narco-traffic has become the refuge for these kids,\u201d he said.But rehabilitating teenage drug users is a long, difficult process. In April, the centre\u2019s other five residents escaped to buy crack, cocaine and marijuana. They assaulted a bus using weapons they had fashioned out of metal and wire. Afterward, they sought out one of the centre\u2019s workers, frightened of the consequences of what they had done. Four are back with their families. The fifth was killed by a dealer.Cl\u00edstenes advocated changes in the law applying to children and teenagers, with longer detention for serious crimes and older and repeat offenders. In a letter to congressional leaders and Rousseff, Human Rights Watch said that reducing the age of criminal majority would violate international treaties signed by Brazil, such as the UN convention on the rights of the child.The letter quoted a US justice department bulletin citing research suggesting that trying teenagers as adults in the United States had led to higher levels of re-offending. \u201cThe solution is not to send them to adult prison,\u201d said Maria Laura Canineu, Human Rights Watch\u2019s Brazil director. \u201cThis will give them a certificate in crime.\u201dOn a recent afternoon, 187 boys were locked in their cells at Fortaleza\u2019s S\u00e3o Miguel educational centre, which has a capacity of 60. Cells with concrete beds for four housed up to a dozen on grubby mattresses on the floor.Inmates shared more stories of the violence sweeping Brazilian society \u2013 an armed mugging, a knifing death the perpetrator said was self-defence. According to government estimates, fewer than 8% of Brazil\u2019s homicides are solved \u2013 a fundamental problem that reducing the age of criminal majority is unlikely to change.This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from the Washington Post", "tags": ["Brazil", "Drugs trade", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil divided over how to deal with its teenage criminals"},{"date": "2015-06-03T11:05:19Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Eduardo Gomes needs to find an imam who can certify halal meat fast.The 34-year old foreign and domestic sales manager of Frigo Estrela, a meat-packing company located in the countryside of S\u00e3o Paulo state, has just accepted a 1,000-tonne order from Iran.He\u2019s bought the cattle, booked the container and even reserved a space on a cargo ship. But now the imam he normally uses to approve his meat is sick with a suspected case of dengue fever. Unless Gomes can find another imam, or a different buyer for his non-halal meat, Frigo Estela stands to suffer a big loss.\u201cWhen one of our workers gets sick, I can\u2019t just replace him with another,\u201d he said. \u201cEveryone here has a particular role.\u201dThe scarcity of imams is just the latest problem for the company, caused by the high incidence of dengue fever in the town of Estrela d\u2019Oeste. Related: US harvest threatened by water-intensive oil and gas boom From the start of the year until 9 May, Brazil registered a total of 845,900 cases of the virus, equivalent to around 0.4% of the population; in Estrela d\u2019Oeste (pop. 8,208), there have been over 1,500 suspected cases, according to the town\u2019s health department. At least 536 of those cases have been confirmed.S\u00e3o Paulo is experiencing its most severe drought in decades, after three years of below-average rainfall. Rationing has led to many Brazilians stock-piling water. Unsecured containers provide ideal breeding grounds for the Aedes Aegypti mosquito, which carries the disease. On 14 May the health minister, Arthur Chioro, stated that Brazil was experiencing an \u201cepidemic\u201d of dengue fever.According to the World Health Organization, an epidemic is over 300 cases per 100,000; in Brazil\u2019s south-east the figure is 648.1. The number of cases this year is over 200% more than the same period of 2014, but lower than in 2013, when over 1.2 million Brazilians were infected.At least 229 Brazilians have died in 2015 due to the disease, which is characterised by flu-like symptoms, fever and vomiting. As yet, there is no vaccine and no cure. Treatment involves relieving the symptoms through hydration and serum.For Frigo Estrela, which employs over 2,000, most of whom are from the town, the disease has taken its toll. Gomes said that 35% of his workforce has been off sick over the past five months, not including those who took time off to care for relatives.To minimise its impact, staff have been given lessons in how to proof both the workplace and their homes against the disease. A new six-strong inspection team, wearing protective overalls, gloves and eye-masks, patrols the grounds of the 92,000 square metre complex every day, armed with a check-list and a powerful insecticide.But the chemicals used by both private companies and public health authorities to fumigate are expensive, environmentally harmful and only provide a temporary solution.In all, Gomes estimates the preventative measures are costing him R$50,000 (US$17,000) a month, and he is critical of the local authorities for failing to do more to prevent the spread of the disease.\u201cThey have been far too passive,\u201d he said. \u201cIt\u2019s like they are waiting for some kind of divine intervention.\u201dIn the local hospital, Eliana Ralho, 34, the municipal health coordinator, strongly disagrees. According to Ralho, the town\u2019s health department has done even more than the state guidelines recommend.\u201cWe are supposed to have one health worker for every 1,000 houses,\u201d she said. \u201cHere we have 3,000 houses and five health workers, going door to door, every weekday, looking for possible breeding sites, spraying when necessary and educating people on how to minimise the risk.\u201dIn early May, the town council passed a law allowing the local police to fine residents a minimum of R$75 (US$25) if they fail to clear their properties of possible breeding grounds after a warning from a health worker. Ms Ralho thinks the threat of fines is starting to have an effect.Inside the hospital, Arquimedes Pichazzi, 76, another of the town\u2019s suspected cases of dengue, blames the carelessness of local residents for the outbreak. \u201cI think the authorities are doing a good job,\u201d he said. It\u2019s the people here who are too relaxed about the disease.\u201dSince January, Brazil\u2019s health ministry has spent R$150m (US$50m) fighting dengue. Most of the money has gone to health authorities in towns like Estrela d\u2019Oeste, to fund preventative measures, such as house visits and education programmes.But given the difficulty of halting the spread of dengue, public and private organisations based in Brazil are working on other solutions. Related: Genetically engineered mosquitoes could be vital weapon against malaria Instituto Butantan, a state-run biomedical facility in S\u00e3o Paulo, is in its third phase of vaccine testing, while Sanofi, the French pharmaceutical company, claims to have produced a vaccine that results in a 60% prevention rate for all strains of the disease.Oxitec, a British company, has created a genetically-modified variant of the Aedes Aegypti which mates with the native mosquito population to produce offspring which die before reaching maturity.While field trials are taking place in various Brazilian municipalities, environmentalists have expressed concern over the unintended consequences of releasing swarms of GM mosquitoes.Oxitech has not yet received clearance to market its technology to the private sector. But Mr Gomes said he was offering to fund the town health department\u2019s purchase of the Oxitech mosquitos.On 26 May the health ministry said that the worst of the outbreak appears to be over. But until researchers develop a more permanent solution, recent history suggests the disease is likely to return soon.Additional reporting by Amanda Moreth", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Water", "Environment", "Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil considers vaccines and GM mosquitoes to tackle dengue fever"},{"date": "2015-05-13T10:39:44Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Despite her advanced age, Juliana Morais da Costa still retains enough strength in her hands to hold the heavy bateia. \u201cI began to pan gold when I was five. We started at 5am until 4pm. It was tough work, but I did it because it was the only way to be economically independent,\u201d remembers Morais, 86.Her home city of Paracatu is the epicentre of Brazil\u2019s mining production, in the north of the state of Minas Gerais, which generates almost one-third of Brazil\u2019s total mining production.The exploitation of gold started in Paracatu as early as 1722. But the days of the garimpeiros, or gold hunters, are long gone. Since the 1990s the hunt has moved from the river banks to underground deposits. Dynamite, excavators and chemicals replaced the garimpeiros, who were pushed out from a business that had sustained hundreds of families.In 2005, Canadian company Kinross \u2013 which is listed in the New York Stock Exchange and owns gold mines in Chile, United States, Russia and Ghana, among other countries \u2013 took over the mining concession in Paracatu. During a period in which gold prices rose to historical new heights in global markets, Kinross invested $1.86bn in the site, tripling annual production to the current 15 tonnes and making Paracatu the most productive gold mine in Brazil. As the gold in Paracatu takes the form of a powder and not grain or nuggets, the company had to greatly intensify mining activities to keep production up. Today as many as 160 dynamite explosions are carried out daily to dig the Morro do Ouro, the Golden Hill, as locals refer to the area where the main deposits are found.As a consequence, the local geography has been profoundly transformed. As you approach the mining area we witness an immense crater that covers 615 hectares, half the size of Heathrow\u2019s airport, and resembles a lunar landscape. The only signs of life are the imposing bulldozers and the high-wheeled vehicles that transport the rocks to the plant. There, toxic chemicals, including cyanide, are employed to separate out the gold powder, which is later molten in ingots and transported by helicopter to S\u00e3o Paulo for export around the globe.While the visual impact seems hard to deny \u2013 in addition to the mining area, two large dams the size of an extra Heathrow airport are used for toxic waste disposal \u2013 many argue that the mine poses a threat to the local environment and to the health of the 90,000 Paracatu residents. Not only is dynamite used to access the gold reserves as close as 200 metres from the urban area, the precious metal is mixed in the rock with arsenic, a carcinogenic.Arsenic is commonly found in gold mines, but in Paracatu it is of particular concern. For each tonne of rock removed only 0.4 grams of gold is recovered and 1kg of arsenic is released into the air and groundwater, according to M\u00e1rcio Jos\u00e9 dos Santos, a geologist and local activist.\u201cNobody knows how much arsenic is going to the city. The northeasterly wind here means that the arsenic travels in the air from the mine to the urban area. People are inhaling the toxic dust and consequently are inhaling arsenic,\u201d explains Jos\u00e9. Sergio Ulhoa Dani, a local physician and also an opponent of the mine, argued in a recent scientific article that \u201cthe potential damage of arsenic in a gold mine like the one in Paracatu could impact seven trillion people\u201d.Many in the city wonder if their life is at risk, while the word \u201ccancer\u201d has become a taboo. Data from Paracatu\u2019s city council shows that the cancer mortality rate in the town is similar to the rest of the country. Critics argue that statistics from the local government are unreliable. As Paracatu lacks medical institutions, patients must go to hospitals located hundreds of kilometres away to receive treatment and so are not counted in the city\u2019s official data.The attitude of the company is also under scrutiny. According to documents seen by The Guardian and interviews with former employees, several Kinross\u2019 employees worked as an intelligence unit to track any potential activity against the mine or the company\u2019s reputation.In an interview with the Guardian, Gilberto Azevedo, general manager of the mine, denied any risk to the health or the environment. \u201cWe monitor everything. People have nothing to fear, because we have everything under control. We regularly make environmental and biological tests, and we have hired external sources to carry studies. They all show there is no risk.\u201dHe also underlined the economic importance of the company\u2019s activity for the region. In 2014, Kinross paid about $10m in taxes and currently employs 3,300 people in the mine, about 8% of the active population in the city.However, tension is perceptible. As we drive through the public roads bordering the concession, an armed guard who had been following the car for an hour brings us to a halt and questions us.Dozens of documents and internal emails seen by The Guardian show that in 2012 and 2013 Kinross had a policy in Paracatu of regularly monitoring potential opponents, including the former mayor Almir Paraca \u2013 known for being outspoken against the mine \u2013 and several union leaders.\u201cThey monitor social movements, politicians, neighbourhood associations and their representatives, environmental activists, union leaders... They even monitor what some Kinross\u2019s employees do at their free time. The main goal is to hide or repress any action, demonstration or reference against the mining company or their interests\u201d, said one of the sources, knowledgeable of Kinross\u2019 policies because of his/her former post at the company. And at least two local activists \u2013 Rafaela Xavier Luiz and Evane Lopes - have had to leave the city in recent months after they received death threats, which they argue were linked to their opposition to the mine.\u201cWe have nothing to do with this. Kinross is a company that dialogues with the community,\u201d says Azevedo, when asked if the enterprise was in any way involved in the threats to activists. Kinross also denied it monitored activists or opponents.The social impact hub is funded by Anglo American. All content is editorially independent except for pieces labelled \u201cbrought to you by\u201d. Find out more here.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Gold", "Mining", "Business", "Environment", "Commodities", "Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canadian mining company spied on opponents and activists in Brazil"},{"date": "2015-05-04T16:57:31Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Amid what is normally considered the rainy season, Brazil, the home of the Amazon River, is suffering from a historic, punishing drought.In a country accustomed to ample water supplies, neighbors are turning against neighbors and hoarding water as taps run dry while businesses close and protesters take to the streets. Some have even speculated that S\u00e3o Paulo, one of the world\u2019s largest cities, is failing. The costs of a drought are many \u2013 water rationing, fines for consumption and constraints on agriculture and industrial production. But for Brazil, a water shortage also leads to another problem: more than 75% of Brazil\u2019s power comes from hydroelectric sources, making it second only to China in reliance on hydroelectric power. The water crisis is pushing Brazil to take extreme measures to save water even as low water levels are decimating its hydropower supplies, leading to rolling power cuts across the country.With its rainforest, favelas and megacities, Brazil is a huge piece of the puzzle for many of the world\u2019s biggest sustainability goals, and the country has loomed large in environmental discussions since it held the Rio+20 climate talks in 2012. Water courses through many of Brazil\u2019s biggest sustainability challenges. Not only does water rationing exacerbate the divide between rich and poor in the highly stratified country, but water pollution and water quality issues are threatening the country\u2019s next turn on the world stage: the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, which arrive just two years after the 2014 FIFA World Cup. Pollution in Guanabara Bay, where Olympic sailing and windsurfing contests are scheduled to be held, is so bad that competitors have described it as an \u201copen sewer\u201d. More than 40 tons of dead fish have been removed from a lake slated to host the rowing contests. Preparations for the Olympics are suffering from widespread dissatisfaction after last year\u2019s FIFA World Cup. The massive investments to build stadiums and host as many as a million football tourists for the soccer blowout sparked large protests from city residents left out of the economic boom, who complain they are paying higher costs of living without seeing increased services. Brazil is in many ways an island nation unto itself \u2013 it\u2019s practically its own Portuguese-speaking continent amid the sea of Spanish Latin America. But it also faces challenges that are familiar across the BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India and China) countries: social inequality, human rights, energy, water, and climate change are all taking a toll on the country\u2019s present and future.Add to these the importance of caring for the Amazon rainforest \u2013 the \u201clungs of the planet\u201d, which stores more carbon dioxide than anywhere else on Earth \u2013 and it becomes clear why social and environmental progress in Brazil is at least as important as its economic growth.Deforestation in the Amazon Basin has long been a thorn in Brazil\u2019s side. Not only do numerous human rights and indigenous peoples\u2019 rights threats arise from deforestation, but researchers recently directly connected Amazonian deforestation to the horrific drought in southern Brazil.Fortunately, there is some good news. Over the past decade, Brazil has lowered its carbon dioxide output more than any other country through a historic effort to slow forest loss: it reduced deforestation 18% last year. Now, other countries are trying to follow Brazil\u2019s lead in the war on tropical deforestation.  Related: Why Brazil's megadrought is a Wall Street failure During Cop 20, the UN climate change conference in Lima last year, Brazilian authorities announced a plan to develop a monitoring system in partnership with the Amazon Cooperation Treat Organization. Around $8m will be spent in satellite data analysis, training, and equipment to be used for monitoring deforestation in all seven countries that are part of the group.Brazil\u2019s megacities also have become home to many of the innovations and disruptions taking root in the US and Europe. Startups working under the banner of the sharing economy such as Uber and Airbnb have found a home in Rio and S\u00e3o Paulo. The B Corporation social and environmental business certification launched in Brazil in 2012 as Sistema B, and just two years later became the home of the world\u2019s first publicly traded B Corp as cosmetics maker Natura earned Sistema B certification.While environmental stewardship is a less-than-common commitment among large Brazilian companies or multinationals doing business in Brazil, the country is host to a thriving social entrepreneurship sector. A number of social entrepreneurship funds operate across Brazil, bankrolling small operations to fight poverty, inequality, and expand educational and economic opportunities among the poor and disadvantaged.Brazil casts a big shadow across South America, despite its continental size and generally inward focus. As Brazil\u2019s development bank invests in more projects across its borders, it brings the promise of more economic opportunity to its less-wealthy neighbors \u2013 but also the risk of stepping on toes and stirring anti-Brazilian anger. Road-building projects in Guyana and Bolivia, a mining project in Argentina, and Brazilian emigration into Paraguay for agricultural projects have all recently incited opposition from neighboring governments and citizens.Just as Brazil weighs heavily across Latin America, it too lives in the shadow of China. Economically, the mid-2000s were Brazil\u2019s golden years. The nation averaged a healthy 4% growth, propelled by high exports \u2013 particularly to China \u2013 as well as a spike in domestic consumption. During these boom times, Brazilians saw a bright future just over the horizon. Then came the 2008 global market crash.  Related: S\u00e3o Paulo \u2013 anatomy of a failing megacity: residents struggle as water taps run dry As their export partners slowed their demand, Brazil\u2019s economy followed suit: in 2009, the economy shrank for the first time since 1992, sending shockwaves throughout the country.The rise and fall and rise again of Brazil\u2019s economy is taking place during what may turn out to be the pivotal moment in the global environmental movement. As Brazil responds to extreme drought, high-stakes deforestation, and pollution and human rights challenges, and as the country steps up to the world stage for the Olympics, its decisions will ripple not only to neighboring countries and the BRICs, but throughout the world.One example of this economic muscle-flexing is the recently proposed development of a new BRICs-led global development bank. Offered as an alternative to the World Bank and IMF, the New Development Bank proposed by China, Russia, India, Brazil and South Africa would emphasize sustainable development around the world without the punishing restrictions required by World Bank loans. While the aim of the NDB is to free BRICs and other developing economies from the status quo, observers caution that if the bank truly wants to change the course of sustainable development it must put human rights and the environment at the center of its charter. Government, business, environmental and civil leaders will be watching closely to find out whether the country will end up being a model for sustainable development or a cautionary tale.Siri Srinivas and Ana Athayde contributed reporting to this article.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Brazil", "Climate change", "Environment", "Climate change", "Climate change", "Drought", "Water", "Olympic Games 2016", "World news", "Americas", "Pollution", "Sustainable development", "Olympic Games", "Business"], "title": "Brazil struggles with drought and pollution as Olympics loom large"},{"date": "2015-04-30T09:35:46Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Populous has designed a world class football stadium with a difference. One of four stadiums built for the 2014 football world cup in Brazil, the Arena das Dunas, was conceived as a multi-purpose venue for the people of Natal, with an emphasis on forging a strong environmental, economic and cultural legacy.Working in a remote region of north-eastern Brazil, the Populous team \u2013 designers, architects and technical experts \u2013 knew that creative, practical solutions would be important in developing and operating a stadium in the long term. Populous chose concrete as the main material for the stadium, reflecting its ready availability in the region and keeping it in character with existing buildings nearby. It used practical, low-cost construction techniques, drawing on local methods and providing employment opportunities for local builders. The asymmetric roof shields spectators from sunlight, while capturing up to 3,000m3 of rainwater that can be reused in the toilets and for irrigating the pitch in the dry season. The undulating form of the main stands (reminiscent of neighbouring sand dunes) catches the prevailing onshore breeze and helps to keep players and spectators cool without relying on costly air-conditioning systems.With 10,000 removable seats, the stadium will host a myriad of sporting events, trade shows and concerts. And as it will be the home stadium for two local football teams for the next 20 years, it is forging its place at the heart of the community. ", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business"], "title": "Populous builds a sustainable football stadium in Brazil"},{"date": "2015-08-25T12:45:26Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "People in Brazil came out in protest against President Dilma Rousseff on Sunday, while pro-government demonstrators marched earlier in the week on Thursday. Did you take part in either of the events? Perhaps you were at a different one protesting with Comperj workers outside Petrobas HQ in Rio de Janeiro on Monday? Or are you planning a demonstration in the future? We\u2019d like to see your photos, videos and hear your experiences.Share your view of Brazil in photos, videos and words by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app \u2013 just search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019. You can also email guardian.witness@theguardian.comWe\u2019ll publish the the most interesting contributions on the Guardian site Compartilhe sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil em fotos, v\u00eddeos e palavras clicando no bot\u00e3o azul \u201cContribute\u201d neste artigo. Voc\u00ea tamb\u00e9m pode usar o aplicativo de smartphone GuardianWitness ou o novo aplicativo do Guardian e procurar por \u201cGuardianWitness assignments\u201d. Ou, voc\u00ea pode nos enviar um email pelo guardian.witness@theguardian.com N\u00f3s publicaremos as contribui\u00e7\u00f5es mais interessantes em nosso site.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil protests: share your pictures and experiences"},{"date": "2015-08-25T12:45:26Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "People in Brazil came out in protest against President Dilma Rousseff on Sunday, while pro-government demonstrators marched earlier in the week on Thursday. Did you take part in either of the events? Perhaps you were at a different one protesting with Comperj workers outside Petrobas HQ in Rio de Janeiro on Monday? Or are you planning a demonstration in the future? We\u2019d like to see your photos, videos and hear your experiences.Share your view of Brazil in photos, videos and words by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app \u2013 just search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019. You can also email guardian.witness@theguardian.comWe\u2019ll publish the the most interesting contributions on the Guardian site Compartilhe sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil em fotos, v\u00eddeos e palavras clicando no bot\u00e3o azul \u201cContribute\u201d neste artigo. Voc\u00ea tamb\u00e9m pode usar o aplicativo de smartphone GuardianWitness ou o novo aplicativo do Guardian e procurar por \u201cGuardianWitness assignments\u201d. Ou, voc\u00ea pode nos enviar um email pelo guardian.witness@theguardian.com N\u00f3s publicaremos as contribui\u00e7\u00f5es mais interessantes em nosso site.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil protests: share your pictures and experiences"},{"date": "2015-09-27T16:02:22Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Rolls-Royce is facing further scrutiny over bribery allegations in Brazil after a high-level congressional commission told the Guardian it will investigate the company in connection with a sprawling corruption scandal.The beleaguered British engineering group now faces two investigations in Brazil after it admitted last month it is cooperating with investigating bodies, believed to include Brazil\u2019s federal anti-corruption authority.The commission confirmed the inquiry intends to examine Rolls-Royce\u2019s relationship with Brazil\u2019s state-owned oil company, Petrobras, currently ensnared in a multibillion-dollar bribery scandal which has prompted political turmoil in the country. Related: Former president Lula faces questioning by police over Brazil corruption scandal Manoel Alvim, the commission\u2019s secretary, said it has requested documents from the UK\u2019s Serious Fraud Office (SFO), which is conducting its own separate investigation into alleged corruption at Rolls-Royce. The SFO has not answered the request.The inquiry, formed earlier this year and made up of members from Brazil\u2019s lower chamber, could summon Rolls-Royce executives to testify in public hearings.In Brazil, an inquiry of this kind has broad investigative powers \u2013 including the authority to compel witnesses to testify under oath and require financial institutions to provide private banking details. So far, the inquiry has summoned senior politicians and executives from Petrobras and its contractors.Rolls-Royce was first dragged into the scandal in February after a former Petrobras executive alleged the group paid him and others bribes in exchange for contracts with the oil company. Rolls-Royce said the company has repeatedly made clear it will not tolerate business misconduct of any kind, but was unable to comment on its cooperation with investigating authorities.Over the past decade, the Derby-based company has won hundreds of millions of pounds worth of contracts with Petrobras to supply power turbines for offshore oil platforms. The congressional commission\u2019s inquiry opens up a new front in the corruption inquiries that Rolls-Royce is facing. The company is currently cooperating with Brazilian authorities believed to include the country\u2019s anti-corruption authority, the Office of the Comptroller General (CGU). CGU officials are currently investigating scores of Petrobras contractors over alleged bribery as part of the sweeping scandal that has hit Brazil\u2019s faltering economy and triggered a domestic political crisis. A CGU investigation could have serious consequences for Rolls-Royce. If the authority brings proceedings, it could face fines of up to 20% of revenues. The GCU can also strike leniency deals with companies if they pay damages and admit wrongdoing.The CGU was unable to comment on questions regarding Rolls-Royce. The spokeswoman said: \u201cThe CGU is silent on the research work in progress until they are finalised.\u201dLast month, the Guardian reported that investigations into an influential Brazilian businessman who claimed his consultancy represented Rolls-Royce in Brazil have intensified.The businessman, Julio Faerman, has struck a plea bargain with prosecutors in Rio de Janeiro. In June he appeared before the congressional inquiry to answer questions about bribery allegations. Faerman has denied any wrongdoing. Rolls-Royce has been under pressure over corruption allegations since late 2013 after the SFO launched a criminal investigation into alleged bribery in Indonesia and China. The SFO\u2019s director said last year that the investigation concerned several divisions of the company.The SFO was unable to comment on whether the investigation is now looking at the company\u2019s activity in Brazil. In March 2014, Rolls-Royce disclosed it is also cooperating with investigators at the US Department of Justice in connection with the SFO\u2019s investigation. The involvement of federal authorities in multiple jurisdictions could increase the range of any fines the company may be ordered to pay. In response to cross-border investigations, Rolls-Royce has hired New York law firm Debevoise & Plimpton. Meanwhile, the company continues to suffer financially with some investors calling for the group to be broken up. In July, Rolls-Royce\u2019s new chief executive Warren East was forced to issue a profit warning on his second day in the job - the company\u2019s fourth profit warning in 18 months. ", "tags": ["Rolls-Royce", "Business", "Serious Fraud Office", "Brazil", "Americas", "Law", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Rolls-Royce faces second investigation in Brazil corruption scandal"},{"date": "2015-08-25T12:45:26Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "People in Brazil came out in protest against President Dilma Rousseff on Sunday, while pro-government demonstrators marched earlier in the week on Thursday. Did you take part in either of the events? Perhaps you were at a different one protesting with Comperj workers outside Petrobas HQ in Rio de Janeiro on Monday? Or are you planning a demonstration in the future? We\u2019d like to see your photos, videos and hear your experiences.Share your view of Brazil in photos, videos and words by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the GuardianWitness smartphone app or the new Guardian app \u2013 just search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019. You can also email guardian.witness@theguardian.comWe\u2019ll publish the the most interesting contributions on the Guardian site Compartilhe sua vis\u00e3o do Brasil em fotos, v\u00eddeos e palavras clicando no bot\u00e3o azul \u201cContribute\u201d neste artigo. Voc\u00ea tamb\u00e9m pode usar o aplicativo de smartphone GuardianWitness ou o novo aplicativo do Guardian e procurar por \u201cGuardianWitness assignments\u201d. Ou, voc\u00ea pode nos enviar um email pelo guardian.witness@theguardian.com N\u00f3s publicaremos as contribui\u00e7\u00f5es mais interessantes em nosso site.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Brazil protests: share your pictures and experiences"},{"date": "2015-09-27T16:02:22Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Rolls-Royce is facing further scrutiny over bribery allegations in Brazil after a high-level congressional commission told the Guardian it will investigate the company in connection with a sprawling corruption scandal.The beleaguered British engineering group now faces two investigations in Brazil after it admitted last month it is cooperating with investigating bodies, believed to include Brazil\u2019s federal anti-corruption authority.The commission confirmed the inquiry intends to examine Rolls-Royce\u2019s relationship with Brazil\u2019s state-owned oil company, Petrobras, currently ensnared in a multibillion-dollar bribery scandal which has prompted political turmoil in the country. Related: Former president Lula faces questioning by police over Brazil corruption scandal Manoel Alvim, the commission\u2019s secretary, said it has requested documents from the UK\u2019s Serious Fraud Office (SFO), which is conducting its own separate investigation into alleged corruption at Rolls-Royce. The SFO has not answered the request.The inquiry, formed earlier this year and made up of members from Brazil\u2019s lower chamber, could summon Rolls-Royce executives to testify in public hearings.In Brazil, an inquiry of this kind has broad investigative powers \u2013 including the authority to compel witnesses to testify under oath and require financial institutions to provide private banking details. So far, the inquiry has summoned senior politicians and executives from Petrobras and its contractors.Rolls-Royce was first dragged into the scandal in February after a former Petrobras executive alleged the group paid him and others bribes in exchange for contracts with the oil company. Rolls-Royce said the company has repeatedly made clear it will not tolerate business misconduct of any kind, but was unable to comment on its cooperation with investigating authorities.Over the past decade, the Derby-based company has won hundreds of millions of pounds worth of contracts with Petrobras to supply power turbines for offshore oil platforms. The congressional commission\u2019s inquiry opens up a new front in the corruption inquiries that Rolls-Royce is facing. The company is currently cooperating with Brazilian authorities believed to include the country\u2019s anti-corruption authority, the Office of the Comptroller General (CGU). CGU officials are currently investigating scores of Petrobras contractors over alleged bribery as part of the sweeping scandal that has hit Brazil\u2019s faltering economy and triggered a domestic political crisis. A CGU investigation could have serious consequences for Rolls-Royce. If the authority brings proceedings, it could face fines of up to 20% of revenues. The GCU can also strike leniency deals with companies if they pay damages and admit wrongdoing.The CGU was unable to comment on questions regarding Rolls-Royce. The spokeswoman said: \u201cThe CGU is silent on the research work in progress until they are finalised.\u201dLast month, the Guardian reported that investigations into an influential Brazilian businessman who claimed his consultancy represented Rolls-Royce in Brazil have intensified.The businessman, Julio Faerman, has struck a plea bargain with prosecutors in Rio de Janeiro. In June he appeared before the congressional inquiry to answer questions about bribery allegations. Faerman has denied any wrongdoing. Rolls-Royce has been under pressure over corruption allegations since late 2013 after the SFO launched a criminal investigation into alleged bribery in Indonesia and China. The SFO\u2019s director said last year that the investigation concerned several divisions of the company.The SFO was unable to comment on whether the investigation is now looking at the company\u2019s activity in Brazil. In March 2014, Rolls-Royce disclosed it is also cooperating with investigators at the US Department of Justice in connection with the SFO\u2019s investigation. The involvement of federal authorities in multiple jurisdictions could increase the range of any fines the company may be ordered to pay. In response to cross-border investigations, Rolls-Royce has hired New York law firm Debevoise & Plimpton. Meanwhile, the company continues to suffer financially with some investors calling for the group to be broken up. In July, Rolls-Royce\u2019s new chief executive Warren East was forced to issue a profit warning on his second day in the job - the company\u2019s fourth profit warning in 18 months. ", "tags": ["Rolls-Royce", "Business", "Serious Fraud Office", "Brazil", "Americas", "Law", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Rolls-Royce faces second investigation in Brazil corruption scandal"},{"date": "2015-09-18T17:54:23Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Amid a massive corruption scandal which has tarnished Brazil\u2019s political class and driven the country\u2019s president to the brink of impeachment, the Brazilian supreme court has banned corporate donations to candidates and parties in future elections.With eight votes in favour and three against, the court declared late on Thursday that the rules allowing companies to donate to election campaigns were unconstitutional.Around 76% of the over R$3bn ($760m) donated during last year\u2019s election campaigns for the presidency, senate and congress came from corporate entities. Both the ruling leftwing Partido dos Trabalhadores (PT) and the main opposition Partido da Social Democracia Brasileira (PSDB) received over R$1bn each.Rosa Weber, one of the judges who ruled in favour of the ban, argued that undue economic influence comprised the legitimacy of the country\u2019s elections.\u201cThe influence of economic power has ended up transforming the electoral process into a rigged political game, a despicable pantomime which makes the voter a puppet, simultaneously undermining citizenship, democracy and popular sovereignty.\u201dAccording to \u201cThe Spoils of Victory\u201d, a US academic study into campaign donations and government contracts in Brazil, corporate donors to the PT in the 2006 elections received between 14 to 39 times the value of their donations in government contracts. Related: Former president Lula faces questioning by police over Brazil corruption scandal Almost all of the major corruption scandals in Brazil in recent years have involved campaign finance contributions, from the \u201cmensal\u00e3o\u201d cash-for-votes scheme that rocked the administration of Lula da Silva to the current Operation Car Wash investigation into Petrobras, the state-run oil company.Of the top 10 corporate donors in the 2014 elections, five currently have senior executives in preventative detention, accused of involvement in the Petrobras scandal.The case was brought to the supreme court around one and a half years ago by the Order of Brazilian Attorneys (OAB). On Thursday the organization\u2019s secretary general, Cl\u00e1udio Pereira de Souza Neto, celebrated the decision. \u201cIt is what Brazilian society has been hoping for, even more so in these times of crisis,\u201d he said, adding that the court order should make future elections cheaper.Despite being the major beneficiary of corporate donations last year, the PT, along with several other, smaller leftwing parties, supported the ban. But in a defeat for the government, congress recently voted to allow companies to donate up to a maximum of R$20m (US$5.1m). Following the supreme court\u2019s ruling, President Dilma Rousseff is now expected to veto that bill.In a dissenting opinion, judge Gilmar Mendes lambasted the PT. \u201cThe party that took most advantage of corporate donations is now, like Mother Teresa of Calcutta, calling for their prohibition. It\u2019s a conversion worthy of sainthood,\u201d he said, claiming the party now had enough money from its 12 years in power to finance its election campaigns until 2038.Another judge who voted against, Celso de Mello, argued that it would be preferable to have control over donations. \u201cIf some donation is made from now on all we can be sure of is that we won\u2019t know about it, but we can never be sure that it doesn\u2019t exist.\u201dOthers pointed out the practical difficulties of enforcing the new legislation. Helio Gurovitz, a commentator for the G1 website, pointed out that the rules would not stop secret donations to \u201ccaixa dois\u201d accounts \u2013 the name for the off-the-books slush funds set up by many political parties.Similarly, the court ruling still allows for donations by individuals, of up to 10% of their annual income, a loophole that could be exploited by companies channelling their donations through bundles of individual voters.So far, opposition parties have been muted in their response, promising only to respect the decision. Eduardo Cunha, the speaker of the lower house and an opponent of the government despite belonging to the allied Partido do Movimento Democr\u00e1tico Brasileiro (PMDB), said the ruling put the 2016 municipal elections in an \u201cunnecessary limbo\u201d.According to a study of 180 countries by the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance (Idea), 39 ban corporate donations, including Mexico, France and Costa Rica; 126 allow them with certain limitations, including the UK, Germany and Argentina.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil bans corporations from political donations amid corruption scandal"},{"date": "2015-12-17T10:28:52Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has blocked Facebook\u2019s WhatsApp messaging app, preventing users in the country from connecting to service or sending messages.A Brazilian court ordered mobile phone providers to block all access to the internet-based messaging service on Wednesday for a total of 48 hours, starting at midnight on Thursday, according to Brazilian phone company association Sinditelebrasil . Related: Judge lifts WhatsApp ban in Brazil after ruling block punished users unfairly The injunction was sought by a plaintiff before a criminal court in S\u00e3o Paulo state whose identity was kept secret.The first criminal court of S\u00e3o Bernardo do Campo said in a statement: \u201cWhatsApp did not respond to a court order, dated 23 July, 2015. On 7 August , 2015, the company was notified again of being subject to fixed penalty in case of non-compliance.\u201dFailure of WhatsApp to respond to the court orders led \u201cthe prosecution to request the blocking of services for a period of 48 hours, based on the law of the Civil the internet Marco, which was granted by Judge Sandra Regina Nostre Marques\u201d.WhatsApp has more than 900 million daily active users globally, of which 93 million live in Brazil. According to data from research firm Opinion Box, 86% of Brazilians have used WhatsApp, while other research points to more than 90%, making it the most used app in the country above Facebook.", "tags": ["WhatsApp", "Facebook", "Smartphones", "Internet", "Apps", "Telecoms", "Technology", "Social networking", "Social media", "Brazil", "Mobile phones", "Telecommunications industry", "Americas", "Digital media", "World news", "Business"], "title": "WhatsApp blocked in Brazil for 48 hours by court"},{"date": "2015-12-17T10:28:52Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has blocked Facebook\u2019s WhatsApp messaging app, preventing users in the country from connecting to service or sending messages.A Brazilian court ordered mobile phone providers to block all access to the internet-based messaging service on Wednesday for a total of 48 hours, starting at midnight on Thursday, according to Brazilian phone company association Sinditelebrasil . Related: Judge lifts WhatsApp ban in Brazil after ruling block punished users unfairly The injunction was sought by a plaintiff before a criminal court in S\u00e3o Paulo state whose identity was kept secret.The first criminal court of S\u00e3o Bernardo do Campo said in a statement: \u201cWhatsApp did not respond to a court order, dated 23 July, 2015. On 7 August , 2015, the company was notified again of being subject to fixed penalty in case of non-compliance.\u201dFailure of WhatsApp to respond to the court orders led \u201cthe prosecution to request the blocking of services for a period of 48 hours, based on the law of the Civil the internet Marco, which was granted by Judge Sandra Regina Nostre Marques\u201d.WhatsApp has more than 900 million daily active users globally, of which 93 million live in Brazil. According to data from research firm Opinion Box, 86% of Brazilians have used WhatsApp, while other research points to more than 90%, making it the most used app in the country above Facebook.", "tags": ["WhatsApp", "Facebook", "Smartphones", "Internet", "Apps", "Telecoms", "Technology", "Social networking", "Social media", "Brazil", "Mobile phones", "Telecommunications industry", "Americas", "Digital media", "World news", "Business"], "title": "WhatsApp blocked in Brazil for 48 hours by court"},{"date": "2015-12-03T10:38:15Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When a 12-year-old contestant of Brazil\u2019s Junior MasterChef became the subject of sexually explicit tweets, women and girls took to social media to share their experiences of the first time they were sexually harassed or assaulted. The #MeuPrimeiroAssedio hashtag \u2013 which translates as \u201cmy first harassment\u201d \u2013 was used more than 82,000 times on Twitter over five days.An NGO called Think Olga, dedicated to empowering women through information, was one of the forces behind the campaign. Born as a blog back in 2013, Think Olga has now grown into a social phenomenon, responsible for women\u2019s causes being debated in mainstream media and social settings. Related: Meet the feminists changing the world for girls from Kenya to Egypt  Numerous campaigners are seeking to combat the misogyny which they claim is so prevalent in Brazilian society. They point to the fact that abortion is still a crime except in cases of rape and anencephaly of the foetus. In October, legislators pre-approved a law to restrict access to the morning-after pill for rape victims, while the theme of a national high school exam essay \u2013 asking students to write about the prevalence of violence against women in Brazilian society \u2013 provoked backlash from right-wing Christian legislators, academics and students alike. The question was deemed to be controversial, leftist and feminist.Only 397 of Brazil\u2019s 5,565 municipalities have specialised police stations to deal with crimes against women, so those registering sexual assaults must often speak to male police officers who might be unprepared to deal with such crimes. Victim-blaming is not unusual, either; the official police website recommends that women do not walk alone on badly lit streets as a prevention against attacks.Think Olga was created by Juliana de Faria, a journalist from S\u00e3o Paulo who created #ChegaDeFiuFiu (no more catcalls), another game-changing action that put the issue of street harassment on the public\u2019s radar.An online survey of 8,000 women and girls conducted by the Think Olga NGO found that 98% of respondents had suffered some form of harassment. The research also found that 90% of respondents have changed their outfits before leaving the house because they feared harassment, and 81% have given up doing something or going somewhere for the same reason.In response to the findings, Think Olga started an online campaign to educate men and women about street harassment and how it impacts women\u2019s day-to-day lives. \u201cThe first step was to make society see catcalls as a problem, so we could collectively find a solution,\u201d says De Faria. For De Faria, it was important to make people understand that catcalls are not a compliment but a manifestation of issues far more complex and ingrained in society.  Related: Altered images: photography as a tool for gender equality Although she received multiple threats along the way, De Faria persisted and now Chega De Fiu Fiu has a harassment map where women can pinpoint locations all over the country where they have felt violated. In partnership with the Public Defender Office of S\u00e3o Paulo state, the map was distributed on the city\u2019s public transport systems.Think Olga\u2019s work goes beyond sexual issues. The NGO is also addressing women\u2019s representation in academic and scientific fields by raising the profile of female experts. The Interview a Woman campaign was created after De Faria discovered data published in The New York Times about the lack of female sources used in the media.\u201cWe could have written a long blog entry expressing our sadness and outrage, but instead we decided to create a platform where anyone can register as a potential source, and any journalist can have access to it,\u201d she says.I reali\u200b\u200bsed that the women around me were probably as afraid as I was of walking alone in the dark.Think Olga is not only the only group to challenge women\u2019s oppression in Brazil. The Vamos Juntas (Let\u2019s Go Together) Facebook page was created by Babi Souza, a journalist and self-proclaimed feminist from Porto Alegre. The movement encourages women to approach each other when walking alone so they can go to places together. \u201cWhen I was walking home one night, I realised that the women around me were probably as afraid as I was of walking alone in the dark. That reminded me that our biggest fear is sexual violence. Only a woman understands what it is like to look over our shoulder and feel relief on realising that the person behind is another woman,\u201d Souza adds.Through collective funding and the help of a technology company, Vamos Juntas is launching a mobile app where women can log badly lit streets, dangerous places and areas where they were harassed. Using that data, the app will suggest safer routes. Souza calls it \u201cthe Waze of abuse\u201d, referencing the popular traffic and navigation app.There\u2019s a reason why women are using the internet and social media to fight for their rights in Brazil, says Ana Lucia Keunecke, legal and business director of Artemis, an NGO that has been fighting to eradicate violence against women for 10 years. Related: An Arab spring of love matters \u2013 Al Hubb Thaqafa defies sexual taboos \u201cJudges, parliamentarians, politicians and executives are unaware of international treaties signed by Brazil that promote gender equality,\u201d she says. \u201cNot even lawyers are aware that such documents can be used in petitions.\u201d Although the scenario seems worrisome, 63,090 women have called Brazil\u2019s domestic violence helpline this year, 40% more than in 2014, which may just go to show how these social media campaigns are proving to be strong allies of women\u2019s causes.Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Brazil", "Social media", "Women", "Abortion", "Feminism", "Rape", "Digital media", "Americas", "Gender"], "title": "The campaigners challenging misogyny and sexism in Brazil"},{"date": "2015-12-17T10:28:52Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has blocked Facebook\u2019s WhatsApp messaging app, preventing users in the country from connecting to service or sending messages.A Brazilian court ordered mobile phone providers to block all access to the internet-based messaging service on Wednesday for a total of 48 hours, starting at midnight on Thursday, according to Brazilian phone company association Sinditelebrasil . Related: Judge lifts WhatsApp ban in Brazil after ruling block punished users unfairly The injunction was sought by a plaintiff before a criminal court in S\u00e3o Paulo state whose identity was kept secret.The first criminal court of S\u00e3o Bernardo do Campo said in a statement: \u201cWhatsApp did not respond to a court order, dated 23 July, 2015. On 7 August , 2015, the company was notified again of being subject to fixed penalty in case of non-compliance.\u201dFailure of WhatsApp to respond to the court orders led \u201cthe prosecution to request the blocking of services for a period of 48 hours, based on the law of the Civil the internet Marco, which was granted by Judge Sandra Regina Nostre Marques\u201d.WhatsApp has more than 900 million daily active users globally, of which 93 million live in Brazil. According to data from research firm Opinion Box, 86% of Brazilians have used WhatsApp, while other research points to more than 90%, making it the most used app in the country above Facebook.", "tags": ["WhatsApp", "Facebook", "Smartphones", "Internet", "Apps", "Telecoms", "Technology", "Social networking", "Social media", "Brazil", "Mobile phones", "Telecommunications industry", "Americas", "Digital media", "World news", "Business"], "title": "WhatsApp blocked in Brazil for 48 hours by court"},{"date": "2015-12-03T10:38:15Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When a 12-year-old contestant of Brazil\u2019s Junior MasterChef became the subject of sexually explicit tweets, women and girls took to social media to share their experiences of the first time they were sexually harassed or assaulted. The #MeuPrimeiroAssedio hashtag \u2013 which translates as \u201cmy first harassment\u201d \u2013 was used more than 82,000 times on Twitter over five days.An NGO called Think Olga, dedicated to empowering women through information, was one of the forces behind the campaign. Born as a blog back in 2013, Think Olga has now grown into a social phenomenon, responsible for women\u2019s causes being debated in mainstream media and social settings. Related: Meet the feminists changing the world for girls from Kenya to Egypt  Numerous campaigners are seeking to combat the misogyny which they claim is so prevalent in Brazilian society. They point to the fact that abortion is still a crime except in cases of rape and anencephaly of the foetus. In October, legislators pre-approved a law to restrict access to the morning-after pill for rape victims, while the theme of a national high school exam essay \u2013 asking students to write about the prevalence of violence against women in Brazilian society \u2013 provoked backlash from right-wing Christian legislators, academics and students alike. The question was deemed to be controversial, leftist and feminist.Only 397 of Brazil\u2019s 5,565 municipalities have specialised police stations to deal with crimes against women, so those registering sexual assaults must often speak to male police officers who might be unprepared to deal with such crimes. Victim-blaming is not unusual, either; the official police website recommends that women do not walk alone on badly lit streets as a prevention against attacks.Think Olga was created by Juliana de Faria, a journalist from S\u00e3o Paulo who created #ChegaDeFiuFiu (no more catcalls), another game-changing action that put the issue of street harassment on the public\u2019s radar.An online survey of 8,000 women and girls conducted by the Think Olga NGO found that 98% of respondents had suffered some form of harassment. The research also found that 90% of respondents have changed their outfits before leaving the house because they feared harassment, and 81% have given up doing something or going somewhere for the same reason.In response to the findings, Think Olga started an online campaign to educate men and women about street harassment and how it impacts women\u2019s day-to-day lives. \u201cThe first step was to make society see catcalls as a problem, so we could collectively find a solution,\u201d says De Faria. For De Faria, it was important to make people understand that catcalls are not a compliment but a manifestation of issues far more complex and ingrained in society.  Related: Altered images: photography as a tool for gender equality Although she received multiple threats along the way, De Faria persisted and now Chega De Fiu Fiu has a harassment map where women can pinpoint locations all over the country where they have felt violated. In partnership with the Public Defender Office of S\u00e3o Paulo state, the map was distributed on the city\u2019s public transport systems.Think Olga\u2019s work goes beyond sexual issues. The NGO is also addressing women\u2019s representation in academic and scientific fields by raising the profile of female experts. The Interview a Woman campaign was created after De Faria discovered data published in The New York Times about the lack of female sources used in the media.\u201cWe could have written a long blog entry expressing our sadness and outrage, but instead we decided to create a platform where anyone can register as a potential source, and any journalist can have access to it,\u201d she says.I reali\u200b\u200bsed that the women around me were probably as afraid as I was of walking alone in the dark.Think Olga is not only the only group to challenge women\u2019s oppression in Brazil. The Vamos Juntas (Let\u2019s Go Together) Facebook page was created by Babi Souza, a journalist and self-proclaimed feminist from Porto Alegre. The movement encourages women to approach each other when walking alone so they can go to places together. \u201cWhen I was walking home one night, I realised that the women around me were probably as afraid as I was of walking alone in the dark. That reminded me that our biggest fear is sexual violence. Only a woman understands what it is like to look over our shoulder and feel relief on realising that the person behind is another woman,\u201d Souza adds.Through collective funding and the help of a technology company, Vamos Juntas is launching a mobile app where women can log badly lit streets, dangerous places and areas where they were harassed. Using that data, the app will suggest safer routes. Souza calls it \u201cthe Waze of abuse\u201d, referencing the popular traffic and navigation app.There\u2019s a reason why women are using the internet and social media to fight for their rights in Brazil, says Ana Lucia Keunecke, legal and business director of Artemis, an NGO that has been fighting to eradicate violence against women for 10 years. Related: An Arab spring of love matters \u2013 Al Hubb Thaqafa defies sexual taboos \u201cJudges, parliamentarians, politicians and executives are unaware of international treaties signed by Brazil that promote gender equality,\u201d she says. \u201cNot even lawyers are aware that such documents can be used in petitions.\u201d Although the scenario seems worrisome, 63,090 women have called Brazil\u2019s domestic violence helpline this year, 40% more than in 2014, which may just go to show how these social media campaigns are proving to be strong allies of women\u2019s causes.Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Brazil", "Social media", "Women", "Abortion", "Feminism", "Rape", "Digital media", "Americas", "Gender"], "title": "The campaigners challenging misogyny and sexism in Brazil"},{"date": "2015-12-03T05:42:46Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil\u2019s president Dilma Rousseff has begun the fight for her political life after the first impeachment proceedings for more than 20 years were launched against her in Congress. Related: Death by 1,000 defamations: Brazil riven by slow-burn impeachment struggle After months of jockeying, the removal proceedings were pushed forward by her political nemesis \u2013 the lower house speaker Eduardo Cunha \u2013 as Brazil slipped deeper into a crisis that has hamstrung decision-making even while the economy suffers its worst downturn since the Great Depression.On Wednesday night, Cunha finally gave the green light to an opposition motion for the country\u2019s first female president to be ejected from office on allegations that she broke fiscal laws by window dressing government accounts ahead of her re-election last year.Rousseff came out fighting. \u201cI have received with indignation the decision by the head of the lower chamber to [launch] the impeachment process,\u201d she said. \u201cThere is no wrongful act committed by me, nor are there any suspicions that I have misused public money.\u201d In a televised address to the nation, Rousseff expressed her \u201coutrage\u201d at Cunha\u2019s decision and said there was no evidence of any wrongdoing by her. \u201cI\u2019ve committed no illicit act, there is no suspicion hanging over me of any misuse of public money,\u201d the president said. \u201cI don\u2019t have any offshore bank accounts, I have no hidden assets.\u201d Her comment was a direct jab at Cunha, who has been charged with taking millions in bribes in connection to a kickbacks scheme that has embroiled state-run oil company Petrobras. Activists from the ruling Workers Party accuse Cunha and his supporters of plotting a coup.Earlier this year, Cunha acknowledged that an impeachment, which would be the first since 1992, would be a \u201cbackwards step for democracy\u201d. For months, he has sat on more than half a dozen previous opposition proposals to remove an elected head of state who has served only one year of her four-year mandate.However, he has changed his tone as his own position has come under threat. Julius Camargo, one of the whistleblowers in the Lava Jato investigation into corruption at Petrobras, has testified that the Cunha asked him for a $5m bribe \u2013 a claim that the speaker denies. As pressure on Cunha mounted on Wednesday, he finally accepted a case lodged by opposition lawyers H\u00e9lio Bicudo, Miguel Reale and Jana\u00edna Paschoal. It appeared at least partly motivated by self-defence, coming just hours after lawmakers the Workers Party ethics committee announced plans to seek his dismissal on grounds of corruption.Cunha dismissed the idea that his decision was motivated by personal or political reasons. \u201cThe basis of this [impeachment proceeding] is purely technical,\u201d he claimed.On his Facebook page, he wrote that he was responding to the demands of anti-government protests earlier this year. \u201cThe demonstrations that took place throughout Brazil \u2013 on March 15, April 12 and August 16 \u2013 were not in vain!\u201d he wrote. \u201cThe [impeachment] process will be followed by the entire population.\u201dTo proceed, the removal proposal needs the support of at least two-thirds of the deputies, or 342 of the 513 votes in the lower house.If that is successful, Rousseff will have to hand over power to vice-president, Michel Temer \u2013 who is from the same Democratic Movement party (PMDB) as Cunha \u2013 for several months while an inquiry is conducted by the senate. A final decision would then have to be approved by a two-thirds majority in the upper house.Rousseff, who won a narrow but uncontested mandate, may have the votes needed to remain in power, but the escalation of conflict between two of the country\u2019s most powerful figures looks set to worsen the already gloomy outlook for Brazil. Luciano Dias, a political consultant at the Brasilia-based Analise Politica firm, said: \u201cThe chances of President Rousseff being impeached aren\u2019t as big as politicians say now, despite this bold move by Cunha.\u201d\u201cThey are not insignificant, but they are not huge.\u201dThe impeachment debate adds to an already long list of problems for the president: the worst scandal in the country\u2019s history, popularity ratings that have slumped into single digits and a worsening recession. The latest economic figures this week showed Brazil is now heading for its worst downturn since the Great Depression of the 1930s.Unemployment is at a five-year high, inflation is nearly twice the government\u2019s target, the value of wages has fallen about 5% since May 2014, and the nation\u2019s GDP is forecast to shrink this year by about 4%.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil opens impeachment proceedings against president Dilma Rousseff"},{"date": "2015-12-17T10:28:52Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has blocked Facebook\u2019s WhatsApp messaging app, preventing users in the country from connecting to service or sending messages.A Brazilian court ordered mobile phone providers to block all access to the internet-based messaging service on Wednesday for a total of 48 hours, starting at midnight on Thursday, according to Brazilian phone company association Sinditelebrasil . Related: Judge lifts WhatsApp ban in Brazil after ruling block punished users unfairly The injunction was sought by a plaintiff before a criminal court in S\u00e3o Paulo state whose identity was kept secret.The first criminal court of S\u00e3o Bernardo do Campo said in a statement: \u201cWhatsApp did not respond to a court order, dated 23 July, 2015. On 7 August , 2015, the company was notified again of being subject to fixed penalty in case of non-compliance.\u201dFailure of WhatsApp to respond to the court orders led \u201cthe prosecution to request the blocking of services for a period of 48 hours, based on the law of the Civil the internet Marco, which was granted by Judge Sandra Regina Nostre Marques\u201d.WhatsApp has more than 900 million daily active users globally, of which 93 million live in Brazil. According to data from research firm Opinion Box, 86% of Brazilians have used WhatsApp, while other research points to more than 90%, making it the most used app in the country above Facebook.", "tags": ["WhatsApp", "Facebook", "Smartphones", "Internet", "Apps", "Telecoms", "Technology", "Social networking", "Social media", "Brazil", "Mobile phones", "Telecommunications industry", "Americas", "Digital media", "World news", "Business"], "title": "WhatsApp blocked in Brazil for 48 hours by court"},{"date": "2015-12-03T10:38:15Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When a 12-year-old contestant of Brazil\u2019s Junior MasterChef became the subject of sexually explicit tweets, women and girls took to social media to share their experiences of the first time they were sexually harassed or assaulted. The #MeuPrimeiroAssedio hashtag \u2013 which translates as \u201cmy first harassment\u201d \u2013 was used more than 82,000 times on Twitter over five days.An NGO called Think Olga, dedicated to empowering women through information, was one of the forces behind the campaign. Born as a blog back in 2013, Think Olga has now grown into a social phenomenon, responsible for women\u2019s causes being debated in mainstream media and social settings. Related: Meet the feminists changing the world for girls from Kenya to Egypt  Numerous campaigners are seeking to combat the misogyny which they claim is so prevalent in Brazilian society. They point to the fact that abortion is still a crime except in cases of rape and anencephaly of the foetus. In October, legislators pre-approved a law to restrict access to the morning-after pill for rape victims, while the theme of a national high school exam essay \u2013 asking students to write about the prevalence of violence against women in Brazilian society \u2013 provoked backlash from right-wing Christian legislators, academics and students alike. The question was deemed to be controversial, leftist and feminist.Only 397 of Brazil\u2019s 5,565 municipalities have specialised police stations to deal with crimes against women, so those registering sexual assaults must often speak to male police officers who might be unprepared to deal with such crimes. Victim-blaming is not unusual, either; the official police website recommends that women do not walk alone on badly lit streets as a prevention against attacks.Think Olga was created by Juliana de Faria, a journalist from S\u00e3o Paulo who created #ChegaDeFiuFiu (no more catcalls), another game-changing action that put the issue of street harassment on the public\u2019s radar.An online survey of 8,000 women and girls conducted by the Think Olga NGO found that 98% of respondents had suffered some form of harassment. The research also found that 90% of respondents have changed their outfits before leaving the house because they feared harassment, and 81% have given up doing something or going somewhere for the same reason.In response to the findings, Think Olga started an online campaign to educate men and women about street harassment and how it impacts women\u2019s day-to-day lives. \u201cThe first step was to make society see catcalls as a problem, so we could collectively find a solution,\u201d says De Faria. For De Faria, it was important to make people understand that catcalls are not a compliment but a manifestation of issues far more complex and ingrained in society.  Related: Altered images: photography as a tool for gender equality Although she received multiple threats along the way, De Faria persisted and now Chega De Fiu Fiu has a harassment map where women can pinpoint locations all over the country where they have felt violated. In partnership with the Public Defender Office of S\u00e3o Paulo state, the map was distributed on the city\u2019s public transport systems.Think Olga\u2019s work goes beyond sexual issues. The NGO is also addressing women\u2019s representation in academic and scientific fields by raising the profile of female experts. The Interview a Woman campaign was created after De Faria discovered data published in The New York Times about the lack of female sources used in the media.\u201cWe could have written a long blog entry expressing our sadness and outrage, but instead we decided to create a platform where anyone can register as a potential source, and any journalist can have access to it,\u201d she says.I reali\u200b\u200bsed that the women around me were probably as afraid as I was of walking alone in the dark.Think Olga is not only the only group to challenge women\u2019s oppression in Brazil. The Vamos Juntas (Let\u2019s Go Together) Facebook page was created by Babi Souza, a journalist and self-proclaimed feminist from Porto Alegre. The movement encourages women to approach each other when walking alone so they can go to places together. \u201cWhen I was walking home one night, I realised that the women around me were probably as afraid as I was of walking alone in the dark. That reminded me that our biggest fear is sexual violence. Only a woman understands what it is like to look over our shoulder and feel relief on realising that the person behind is another woman,\u201d Souza adds.Through collective funding and the help of a technology company, Vamos Juntas is launching a mobile app where women can log badly lit streets, dangerous places and areas where they were harassed. Using that data, the app will suggest safer routes. Souza calls it \u201cthe Waze of abuse\u201d, referencing the popular traffic and navigation app.There\u2019s a reason why women are using the internet and social media to fight for their rights in Brazil, says Ana Lucia Keunecke, legal and business director of Artemis, an NGO that has been fighting to eradicate violence against women for 10 years. Related: An Arab spring of love matters \u2013 Al Hubb Thaqafa defies sexual taboos \u201cJudges, parliamentarians, politicians and executives are unaware of international treaties signed by Brazil that promote gender equality,\u201d she says. \u201cNot even lawyers are aware that such documents can be used in petitions.\u201d Although the scenario seems worrisome, 63,090 women have called Brazil\u2019s domestic violence helpline this year, 40% more than in 2014, which may just go to show how these social media campaigns are proving to be strong allies of women\u2019s causes.Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Brazil", "Social media", "Women", "Abortion", "Feminism", "Rape", "Digital media", "Americas", "Gender"], "title": "The campaigners challenging misogyny and sexism in Brazil"},{"date": "2015-12-03T05:42:46Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil\u2019s president Dilma Rousseff has begun the fight for her political life after the first impeachment proceedings for more than 20 years were launched against her in Congress. Related: Death by 1,000 defamations: Brazil riven by slow-burn impeachment struggle After months of jockeying, the removal proceedings were pushed forward by her political nemesis \u2013 the lower house speaker Eduardo Cunha \u2013 as Brazil slipped deeper into a crisis that has hamstrung decision-making even while the economy suffers its worst downturn since the Great Depression.On Wednesday night, Cunha finally gave the green light to an opposition motion for the country\u2019s first female president to be ejected from office on allegations that she broke fiscal laws by window dressing government accounts ahead of her re-election last year.Rousseff came out fighting. \u201cI have received with indignation the decision by the head of the lower chamber to [launch] the impeachment process,\u201d she said. \u201cThere is no wrongful act committed by me, nor are there any suspicions that I have misused public money.\u201d In a televised address to the nation, Rousseff expressed her \u201coutrage\u201d at Cunha\u2019s decision and said there was no evidence of any wrongdoing by her. \u201cI\u2019ve committed no illicit act, there is no suspicion hanging over me of any misuse of public money,\u201d the president said. \u201cI don\u2019t have any offshore bank accounts, I have no hidden assets.\u201d Her comment was a direct jab at Cunha, who has been charged with taking millions in bribes in connection to a kickbacks scheme that has embroiled state-run oil company Petrobras. Activists from the ruling Workers Party accuse Cunha and his supporters of plotting a coup.Earlier this year, Cunha acknowledged that an impeachment, which would be the first since 1992, would be a \u201cbackwards step for democracy\u201d. For months, he has sat on more than half a dozen previous opposition proposals to remove an elected head of state who has served only one year of her four-year mandate.However, he has changed his tone as his own position has come under threat. Julius Camargo, one of the whistleblowers in the Lava Jato investigation into corruption at Petrobras, has testified that the Cunha asked him for a $5m bribe \u2013 a claim that the speaker denies. As pressure on Cunha mounted on Wednesday, he finally accepted a case lodged by opposition lawyers H\u00e9lio Bicudo, Miguel Reale and Jana\u00edna Paschoal. It appeared at least partly motivated by self-defence, coming just hours after lawmakers the Workers Party ethics committee announced plans to seek his dismissal on grounds of corruption.Cunha dismissed the idea that his decision was motivated by personal or political reasons. \u201cThe basis of this [impeachment proceeding] is purely technical,\u201d he claimed.On his Facebook page, he wrote that he was responding to the demands of anti-government protests earlier this year. \u201cThe demonstrations that took place throughout Brazil \u2013 on March 15, April 12 and August 16 \u2013 were not in vain!\u201d he wrote. \u201cThe [impeachment] process will be followed by the entire population.\u201dTo proceed, the removal proposal needs the support of at least two-thirds of the deputies, or 342 of the 513 votes in the lower house.If that is successful, Rousseff will have to hand over power to vice-president, Michel Temer \u2013 who is from the same Democratic Movement party (PMDB) as Cunha \u2013 for several months while an inquiry is conducted by the senate. A final decision would then have to be approved by a two-thirds majority in the upper house.Rousseff, who won a narrow but uncontested mandate, may have the votes needed to remain in power, but the escalation of conflict between two of the country\u2019s most powerful figures looks set to worsen the already gloomy outlook for Brazil. Luciano Dias, a political consultant at the Brasilia-based Analise Politica firm, said: \u201cThe chances of President Rousseff being impeached aren\u2019t as big as politicians say now, despite this bold move by Cunha.\u201d\u201cThey are not insignificant, but they are not huge.\u201dThe impeachment debate adds to an already long list of problems for the president: the worst scandal in the country\u2019s history, popularity ratings that have slumped into single digits and a worsening recession. The latest economic figures this week showed Brazil is now heading for its worst downturn since the Great Depression of the 1930s.Unemployment is at a five-year high, inflation is nearly twice the government\u2019s target, the value of wages has fallen about 5% since May 2014, and the nation\u2019s GDP is forecast to shrink this year by about 4%.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil opens impeachment proceedings against president Dilma Rousseff"},{"date": "2015-10-22T14:38:04Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The humble Brazil nut is one of the UK\u2019s most beloved superfoods and a true nutritional powerhouse. It is a great source of protein, minerals and several amino acids that help protect the body from serious disease.What is lesser known about the Brazil nut, however, is its challenging journey from the Amazonian forest floor to store shelves all over the world. Liberation, the UK\u2019S only Fairtrade and farmer-owned nut company, works with a number of nut co-operatives \u2013 COINACAPA, ACEBA and Aire Muje \u2013 to supply good quality nuts and address challenges experienced by the communities that produce them.To commemorate National Nut Day on 22 October, here are some fascinating facts about this humble product of the mighty Amazon forest. 1. The Brazil nut is part of a perfectly orchestrated natural symphonyReaching up to 160 feet, the Brazil nut tree is a true giant of the Amazon, but its survival hinges on an unlikely symbiotic relationship with its own flowers and seed pods, a particular rainforest orchid, the sex lives of bees and the feeding habits of a tropical rodent called agouti. Related: Fairtrade certified mining practices are worth their weight in gold The tree\u2019s flowers can only be pollinated by large-bodied bees who have characteristic large tongues. In turn, the bees cannot reproduce without the rainforest. And lastly, the only animal able to penetrate the rock-hard shell containing the nut seeds and in so doing distribute the seeds further along the forest floor, is the agouti. 2. Brazil nut gatherer communities play a role in protecting the Amazon forestThe Brazil nut trade is a huge economic driver in the Amazon basin. However, unlike most of the other commercial enterprises relying on the forest (such as timber, gold and rubber) the nut is one of the few resources that remain under the control of the region\u2019s poor, mostly farmers, who rely heavily on these trees for their livelihoods.In addition, because Brazil nut trees only grow and flourish under healthy, pristine forest conditions, nut farmers are fiercely protective of the forest surrounding the nut trees, maintaining the exceptionally fragile ecosystem that ensures not only the protection of the Brazil nut trees\u2019 lifecycle but also that of the forest and other species.A crucial contributing factor to the protection of these forests is the organisation of farmers into co-operatives. COINACAPA, a founding shareholder of Liberation Foods, was instrumental in establishing the nut co-operatives.\u201cWhat incentivised us to work together, more than ever, was the fact that so many families were being mistreated by ranch managers,\u201d says Juli\u00e1n P\u00e9rez Ortiz, president of nut co-operative COINACAPA, Bolivia. \u201cWe realised that the only way to liberate these families was for them to organise. Then they could finally be free and get paid a fair price.3. Climate change has a profound impact on the nut supply chainNuts are typically gathered during the rainy season in the wettest region of Bolivia, which means trails leading into the forest and roads leading to shipping points become close to impassable. Rivers are bursting at the banks, and farmers may experience massive delays in transporting their produce.However, the nut-gathering communities are incredibly resilient. In addition, access to pre-financing (provided by a Fairtrade/Liberation partnership) means they are able to start collecting nuts before the rainy season arrives. Pre-finance also enables them to finance equipment, gathering, delivery and transit of goods. 4. Nut gathering is a dangerous businessNut gatherers spend days and weeks gathering nuts and sleeping in the forest before returning home with their produce. Gatherers collect the pods that encase what we know as Brazil nuts \u2013 large shelled fruits, like a coconut, which contain anywhere from 10-25 Brazil nuts each. The shells weigh up to 3kg and, when falling from the height of the tree, can crush a human skull.\u201cYou leave your house thinking that everything will be fine, but if God wills it you could die because of a nut falling on your head,\u201d says Bolivian nut gatherer Santos Pereira Panduro \u201cIt\u2019s happened to many people I know. In addition to the falling nuts, there are also snakes in the forest. One of them bit my wife and she was unconscious for over an hour. Luckily she survived.\u201dOnce collected, gatherers carry the pods out of the forest back to their communities. From there, it is still around 1,200 miles to the port from where the nuts will be shipped to Liberation. The nuts in shell are transported two to three days down river in canoes to a collection point where they are shelled with special cracking machines, cleaned, quality tested and packed ready for export. From there, the nuts are transported by lorry to La Paz and ultimately to the Arica port in Chile.5. Information is power, and a fair price is justice  Related: Why sustainable sourcing leads to growth we can all be proud of Evidently, Brazil nut co-operatives have faced a number of significant challenges over the years. One particular challenge that might not be immediately obvious is the fact that of all the players in the supply chain, farmers and workers typically have the least amount of information on the wider industry. This is something that Liberation wanted to change.\u201cWe found that giving farmers access to information was a powerful motivating factor for the gatherers who have to spend weeks on end in the dangerous forest environment gathering nuts,\u201d says Kate Gaskell, Liberation managing director. \u201cUnderstanding how quality affects the price, they are encouraged more than ever to treat nuts in the right way which has led to an improvement in quality.\u201dBrazil nut-cooperatives have faced a number of issues over the years \u2013 these include currency fluctuations, adverse weather conditions and the complexity of managing contract processers to shell and pack nuts at origin. One thing that has seen them through tough times was the knowledge that, ultimately, they would be paid a fair price for their produce.\u201cA fair price brings justice,\u201d says Bolivian nut gatherer Yoselina Quette \u201cIt\u2019s fair that if someone works incredibly hard under difficult circumstances, that they should be properly rewarded. To people in the UK we have this message: if you are willing to pay a fair price, we will continue searching out quality nuts.\u201dContent on this page is paid for and provided by Fairtrade Foundation, sponsor of the spotlight on commodities series", "tags": ["Sustainable Business - Fairtrade partner zone"], "title": "Tracking the challenging journey of the Brazil nut"},{"date": "2015-12-17T10:28:52Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has blocked Facebook\u2019s WhatsApp messaging app, preventing users in the country from connecting to service or sending messages.A Brazilian court ordered mobile phone providers to block all access to the internet-based messaging service on Wednesday for a total of 48 hours, starting at midnight on Thursday, according to Brazilian phone company association Sinditelebrasil . Related: Judge lifts WhatsApp ban in Brazil after ruling block punished users unfairly The injunction was sought by a plaintiff before a criminal court in S\u00e3o Paulo state whose identity was kept secret.The first criminal court of S\u00e3o Bernardo do Campo said in a statement: \u201cWhatsApp did not respond to a court order, dated 23 July, 2015. On 7 August , 2015, the company was notified again of being subject to fixed penalty in case of non-compliance.\u201dFailure of WhatsApp to respond to the court orders led \u201cthe prosecution to request the blocking of services for a period of 48 hours, based on the law of the Civil the internet Marco, which was granted by Judge Sandra Regina Nostre Marques\u201d.WhatsApp has more than 900 million daily active users globally, of which 93 million live in Brazil. According to data from research firm Opinion Box, 86% of Brazilians have used WhatsApp, while other research points to more than 90%, making it the most used app in the country above Facebook.", "tags": ["WhatsApp", "Facebook", "Smartphones", "Internet", "Apps", "Telecoms", "Technology", "Social networking", "Social media", "Brazil", "Mobile phones", "Telecommunications industry", "Americas", "Digital media", "World news", "Business"], "title": "WhatsApp blocked in Brazil for 48 hours by court"},{"date": "2015-12-03T10:38:15Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When a 12-year-old contestant of Brazil\u2019s Junior MasterChef became the subject of sexually explicit tweets, women and girls took to social media to share their experiences of the first time they were sexually harassed or assaulted. The #MeuPrimeiroAssedio hashtag \u2013 which translates as \u201cmy first harassment\u201d \u2013 was used more than 82,000 times on Twitter over five days.An NGO called Think Olga, dedicated to empowering women through information, was one of the forces behind the campaign. Born as a blog back in 2013, Think Olga has now grown into a social phenomenon, responsible for women\u2019s causes being debated in mainstream media and social settings. Related: Meet the feminists changing the world for girls from Kenya to Egypt  Numerous campaigners are seeking to combat the misogyny which they claim is so prevalent in Brazilian society. They point to the fact that abortion is still a crime except in cases of rape and anencephaly of the foetus. In October, legislators pre-approved a law to restrict access to the morning-after pill for rape victims, while the theme of a national high school exam essay \u2013 asking students to write about the prevalence of violence against women in Brazilian society \u2013 provoked backlash from right-wing Christian legislators, academics and students alike. The question was deemed to be controversial, leftist and feminist.Only 397 of Brazil\u2019s 5,565 municipalities have specialised police stations to deal with crimes against women, so those registering sexual assaults must often speak to male police officers who might be unprepared to deal with such crimes. Victim-blaming is not unusual, either; the official police website recommends that women do not walk alone on badly lit streets as a prevention against attacks.Think Olga was created by Juliana de Faria, a journalist from S\u00e3o Paulo who created #ChegaDeFiuFiu (no more catcalls), another game-changing action that put the issue of street harassment on the public\u2019s radar.An online survey of 8,000 women and girls conducted by the Think Olga NGO found that 98% of respondents had suffered some form of harassment. The research also found that 90% of respondents have changed their outfits before leaving the house because they feared harassment, and 81% have given up doing something or going somewhere for the same reason.In response to the findings, Think Olga started an online campaign to educate men and women about street harassment and how it impacts women\u2019s day-to-day lives. \u201cThe first step was to make society see catcalls as a problem, so we could collectively find a solution,\u201d says De Faria. For De Faria, it was important to make people understand that catcalls are not a compliment but a manifestation of issues far more complex and ingrained in society.  Related: Altered images: photography as a tool for gender equality Although she received multiple threats along the way, De Faria persisted and now Chega De Fiu Fiu has a harassment map where women can pinpoint locations all over the country where they have felt violated. In partnership with the Public Defender Office of S\u00e3o Paulo state, the map was distributed on the city\u2019s public transport systems.Think Olga\u2019s work goes beyond sexual issues. The NGO is also addressing women\u2019s representation in academic and scientific fields by raising the profile of female experts. The Interview a Woman campaign was created after De Faria discovered data published in The New York Times about the lack of female sources used in the media.\u201cWe could have written a long blog entry expressing our sadness and outrage, but instead we decided to create a platform where anyone can register as a potential source, and any journalist can have access to it,\u201d she says.I reali\u200b\u200bsed that the women around me were probably as afraid as I was of walking alone in the dark.Think Olga is not only the only group to challenge women\u2019s oppression in Brazil. The Vamos Juntas (Let\u2019s Go Together) Facebook page was created by Babi Souza, a journalist and self-proclaimed feminist from Porto Alegre. The movement encourages women to approach each other when walking alone so they can go to places together. \u201cWhen I was walking home one night, I realised that the women around me were probably as afraid as I was of walking alone in the dark. That reminded me that our biggest fear is sexual violence. Only a woman understands what it is like to look over our shoulder and feel relief on realising that the person behind is another woman,\u201d Souza adds.Through collective funding and the help of a technology company, Vamos Juntas is launching a mobile app where women can log badly lit streets, dangerous places and areas where they were harassed. Using that data, the app will suggest safer routes. Souza calls it \u201cthe Waze of abuse\u201d, referencing the popular traffic and navigation app.There\u2019s a reason why women are using the internet and social media to fight for their rights in Brazil, says Ana Lucia Keunecke, legal and business director of Artemis, an NGO that has been fighting to eradicate violence against women for 10 years. Related: An Arab spring of love matters \u2013 Al Hubb Thaqafa defies sexual taboos \u201cJudges, parliamentarians, politicians and executives are unaware of international treaties signed by Brazil that promote gender equality,\u201d she says. \u201cNot even lawyers are aware that such documents can be used in petitions.\u201d Although the scenario seems worrisome, 63,090 women have called Brazil\u2019s domestic violence helpline this year, 40% more than in 2014, which may just go to show how these social media campaigns are proving to be strong allies of women\u2019s causes.Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Brazil", "Social media", "Women", "Abortion", "Feminism", "Rape", "Digital media", "Americas", "Gender"], "title": "The campaigners challenging misogyny and sexism in Brazil"},{"date": "2015-12-03T05:42:46Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil\u2019s president Dilma Rousseff has begun the fight for her political life after the first impeachment proceedings for more than 20 years were launched against her in Congress. Related: Death by 1,000 defamations: Brazil riven by slow-burn impeachment struggle After months of jockeying, the removal proceedings were pushed forward by her political nemesis \u2013 the lower house speaker Eduardo Cunha \u2013 as Brazil slipped deeper into a crisis that has hamstrung decision-making even while the economy suffers its worst downturn since the Great Depression.On Wednesday night, Cunha finally gave the green light to an opposition motion for the country\u2019s first female president to be ejected from office on allegations that she broke fiscal laws by window dressing government accounts ahead of her re-election last year.Rousseff came out fighting. \u201cI have received with indignation the decision by the head of the lower chamber to [launch] the impeachment process,\u201d she said. \u201cThere is no wrongful act committed by me, nor are there any suspicions that I have misused public money.\u201d In a televised address to the nation, Rousseff expressed her \u201coutrage\u201d at Cunha\u2019s decision and said there was no evidence of any wrongdoing by her. \u201cI\u2019ve committed no illicit act, there is no suspicion hanging over me of any misuse of public money,\u201d the president said. \u201cI don\u2019t have any offshore bank accounts, I have no hidden assets.\u201d Her comment was a direct jab at Cunha, who has been charged with taking millions in bribes in connection to a kickbacks scheme that has embroiled state-run oil company Petrobras. Activists from the ruling Workers Party accuse Cunha and his supporters of plotting a coup.Earlier this year, Cunha acknowledged that an impeachment, which would be the first since 1992, would be a \u201cbackwards step for democracy\u201d. For months, he has sat on more than half a dozen previous opposition proposals to remove an elected head of state who has served only one year of her four-year mandate.However, he has changed his tone as his own position has come under threat. Julius Camargo, one of the whistleblowers in the Lava Jato investigation into corruption at Petrobras, has testified that the Cunha asked him for a $5m bribe \u2013 a claim that the speaker denies. As pressure on Cunha mounted on Wednesday, he finally accepted a case lodged by opposition lawyers H\u00e9lio Bicudo, Miguel Reale and Jana\u00edna Paschoal. It appeared at least partly motivated by self-defence, coming just hours after lawmakers the Workers Party ethics committee announced plans to seek his dismissal on grounds of corruption.Cunha dismissed the idea that his decision was motivated by personal or political reasons. \u201cThe basis of this [impeachment proceeding] is purely technical,\u201d he claimed.On his Facebook page, he wrote that he was responding to the demands of anti-government protests earlier this year. \u201cThe demonstrations that took place throughout Brazil \u2013 on March 15, April 12 and August 16 \u2013 were not in vain!\u201d he wrote. \u201cThe [impeachment] process will be followed by the entire population.\u201dTo proceed, the removal proposal needs the support of at least two-thirds of the deputies, or 342 of the 513 votes in the lower house.If that is successful, Rousseff will have to hand over power to vice-president, Michel Temer \u2013 who is from the same Democratic Movement party (PMDB) as Cunha \u2013 for several months while an inquiry is conducted by the senate. A final decision would then have to be approved by a two-thirds majority in the upper house.Rousseff, who won a narrow but uncontested mandate, may have the votes needed to remain in power, but the escalation of conflict between two of the country\u2019s most powerful figures looks set to worsen the already gloomy outlook for Brazil. Luciano Dias, a political consultant at the Brasilia-based Analise Politica firm, said: \u201cThe chances of President Rousseff being impeached aren\u2019t as big as politicians say now, despite this bold move by Cunha.\u201d\u201cThey are not insignificant, but they are not huge.\u201dThe impeachment debate adds to an already long list of problems for the president: the worst scandal in the country\u2019s history, popularity ratings that have slumped into single digits and a worsening recession. The latest economic figures this week showed Brazil is now heading for its worst downturn since the Great Depression of the 1930s.Unemployment is at a five-year high, inflation is nearly twice the government\u2019s target, the value of wages has fallen about 5% since May 2014, and the nation\u2019s GDP is forecast to shrink this year by about 4%.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil opens impeachment proceedings against president Dilma Rousseff"},{"date": "2015-10-22T14:38:04Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The humble Brazil nut is one of the UK\u2019s most beloved superfoods and a true nutritional powerhouse. It is a great source of protein, minerals and several amino acids that help protect the body from serious disease.What is lesser known about the Brazil nut, however, is its challenging journey from the Amazonian forest floor to store shelves all over the world. Liberation, the UK\u2019S only Fairtrade and farmer-owned nut company, works with a number of nut co-operatives \u2013 COINACAPA, ACEBA and Aire Muje \u2013 to supply good quality nuts and address challenges experienced by the communities that produce them.To commemorate National Nut Day on 22 October, here are some fascinating facts about this humble product of the mighty Amazon forest. 1. The Brazil nut is part of a perfectly orchestrated natural symphonyReaching up to 160 feet, the Brazil nut tree is a true giant of the Amazon, but its survival hinges on an unlikely symbiotic relationship with its own flowers and seed pods, a particular rainforest orchid, the sex lives of bees and the feeding habits of a tropical rodent called agouti. Related: Fairtrade certified mining practices are worth their weight in gold The tree\u2019s flowers can only be pollinated by large-bodied bees who have characteristic large tongues. In turn, the bees cannot reproduce without the rainforest. And lastly, the only animal able to penetrate the rock-hard shell containing the nut seeds and in so doing distribute the seeds further along the forest floor, is the agouti. 2. Brazil nut gatherer communities play a role in protecting the Amazon forestThe Brazil nut trade is a huge economic driver in the Amazon basin. However, unlike most of the other commercial enterprises relying on the forest (such as timber, gold and rubber) the nut is one of the few resources that remain under the control of the region\u2019s poor, mostly farmers, who rely heavily on these trees for their livelihoods.In addition, because Brazil nut trees only grow and flourish under healthy, pristine forest conditions, nut farmers are fiercely protective of the forest surrounding the nut trees, maintaining the exceptionally fragile ecosystem that ensures not only the protection of the Brazil nut trees\u2019 lifecycle but also that of the forest and other species.A crucial contributing factor to the protection of these forests is the organisation of farmers into co-operatives. COINACAPA, a founding shareholder of Liberation Foods, was instrumental in establishing the nut co-operatives.\u201cWhat incentivised us to work together, more than ever, was the fact that so many families were being mistreated by ranch managers,\u201d says Juli\u00e1n P\u00e9rez Ortiz, president of nut co-operative COINACAPA, Bolivia. \u201cWe realised that the only way to liberate these families was for them to organise. Then they could finally be free and get paid a fair price.3. Climate change has a profound impact on the nut supply chainNuts are typically gathered during the rainy season in the wettest region of Bolivia, which means trails leading into the forest and roads leading to shipping points become close to impassable. Rivers are bursting at the banks, and farmers may experience massive delays in transporting their produce.However, the nut-gathering communities are incredibly resilient. In addition, access to pre-financing (provided by a Fairtrade/Liberation partnership) means they are able to start collecting nuts before the rainy season arrives. Pre-finance also enables them to finance equipment, gathering, delivery and transit of goods. 4. Nut gathering is a dangerous businessNut gatherers spend days and weeks gathering nuts and sleeping in the forest before returning home with their produce. Gatherers collect the pods that encase what we know as Brazil nuts \u2013 large shelled fruits, like a coconut, which contain anywhere from 10-25 Brazil nuts each. The shells weigh up to 3kg and, when falling from the height of the tree, can crush a human skull.\u201cYou leave your house thinking that everything will be fine, but if God wills it you could die because of a nut falling on your head,\u201d says Bolivian nut gatherer Santos Pereira Panduro \u201cIt\u2019s happened to many people I know. In addition to the falling nuts, there are also snakes in the forest. One of them bit my wife and she was unconscious for over an hour. Luckily she survived.\u201dOnce collected, gatherers carry the pods out of the forest back to their communities. From there, it is still around 1,200 miles to the port from where the nuts will be shipped to Liberation. The nuts in shell are transported two to three days down river in canoes to a collection point where they are shelled with special cracking machines, cleaned, quality tested and packed ready for export. From there, the nuts are transported by lorry to La Paz and ultimately to the Arica port in Chile.5. Information is power, and a fair price is justice  Related: Why sustainable sourcing leads to growth we can all be proud of Evidently, Brazil nut co-operatives have faced a number of significant challenges over the years. One particular challenge that might not be immediately obvious is the fact that of all the players in the supply chain, farmers and workers typically have the least amount of information on the wider industry. This is something that Liberation wanted to change.\u201cWe found that giving farmers access to information was a powerful motivating factor for the gatherers who have to spend weeks on end in the dangerous forest environment gathering nuts,\u201d says Kate Gaskell, Liberation managing director. \u201cUnderstanding how quality affects the price, they are encouraged more than ever to treat nuts in the right way which has led to an improvement in quality.\u201dBrazil nut-cooperatives have faced a number of issues over the years \u2013 these include currency fluctuations, adverse weather conditions and the complexity of managing contract processers to shell and pack nuts at origin. One thing that has seen them through tough times was the knowledge that, ultimately, they would be paid a fair price for their produce.\u201cA fair price brings justice,\u201d says Bolivian nut gatherer Yoselina Quette \u201cIt\u2019s fair that if someone works incredibly hard under difficult circumstances, that they should be properly rewarded. To people in the UK we have this message: if you are willing to pay a fair price, we will continue searching out quality nuts.\u201dContent on this page is paid for and provided by Fairtrade Foundation, sponsor of the spotlight on commodities series", "tags": ["Sustainable Business - Fairtrade partner zone"], "title": "Tracking the challenging journey of the Brazil nut"},{"date": "2015-12-17T17:36:10Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Millions of Brazilian WhatsApp users had their service disrupted for hours on Thursday as judges flipped back and forth on how to punish the company for failing to cooperate with a criminal investigation. Related: WhatsApp blocked in Brazil for 48 hours by court The messaging service, which is owned by Facebook, was initially blocked across the country at midnight under an injunction issued by the first criminal court of S\u00e3o Bernardo do Campo.In a statement, the court accused WhatsApp \u2013 which was the most popular download in Brazil last year \u2013 of twice failing to comply with its orders. It instructed telephone operators to block access to the service for 48 hours.The ban outraged users of the service, who account for almost half of the 200 million population and more than 10% of all WhatsApp users worldwide.\u201cHow many people are affected, be it for fun or for work? How many shops sell more via WhatsApp than in their physical shop. It interferes even in the economy,\u201d noted one.Qts pessoas afetadas, seja por divers\u00e3o ou trabalho. Qts lojas vendem mais pelo #WhatsApp do que na loja f\u00edsica... Interfere at\u00e9 na economiaOthers, however, responded with jokes. A Twitter meme with the hashtag #Nessas48HorasEuVou (#Inthese48hoursIwill) collected humorous alternative ways of passing the time, such as being stranded on a desert island.Facebook\u2019 s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, expressed his disappointment online.\u201cThis is a sad day for Brazil. Until today, Brazil has been an ally in creating an open internet,\u201d WhatsApp\u2019s chief executive, Jan Koum, said it was \u201csad to see Brazil isolate itself from the rest of the world\u201d.In the afternoon, however, a different judge in S\u00e3o Paulo state lifted the restrictions on that grounds that \u201cit does not seem reasonable that millions of users are affected\u201d because of the company\u2019s wrongdoing. Instead, the judge recommended a financial penalty.The origin of the dispute is unclear. Local media claimed that the judge in the first case requested records relating to alleged members of the First Capital Command, Brazil\u2019s most powerful organised crime group. This has not been confirmed by the court.Adriano Mendes, a lawyer who specialises in digital law, said WhatsApp was put in a difficult position because the first judge ordered it to release information that it could have been condemned for in the US under privacy laws if shared.If Brazil had signed the Budapest Convention on information sharing instead of drawing up its own law, Mendes said the legal situation would have been clearer.\u201cIn other countries, WhatsApp would have cooperated with the judge without any issues. But it\u2019s important to say that this is an extreme measure that should have never been used,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is the same as if a judge ruled that the water be shut off in an entire town because of a leak in one house,\u201d he said.Not everyone was unhappy with the disruption.Only one of the four big telephone operators, Oi, contested the ruling. This is unsurprising given the hostility that most feel towards WhatsApp, which offers free calls that eat into their market share and profits.Rival messaging services also appear to have benefited. Telegram is said to have attracted more than a million new users, though the company said on Twitter that it preferred natural growth to such spikes. It still has less than a tenth of the share of WhatsApp.Huimin Chu, a Rio-based student, said WhatsApp was his main way of communicating with friends, but its temporary loss made him consider alternatives. \u201cThe block made me realise how much I depend on the messaging service, but I\u2019ve enjoyed not having it for a while. It means you have to try other stuff, like actually meeting and talking to people.\u201d ", "tags": ["Brazil", "Facebook", "World news", "WhatsApp", "Technology", "Social networking"], "title": "Judge lifts WhatsApp ban in Brazil after ruling block punished users unfairly"},{"date": "2015-12-17T10:28:52Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has blocked Facebook\u2019s WhatsApp messaging app, preventing users in the country from connecting to service or sending messages.A Brazilian court ordered mobile phone providers to block all access to the internet-based messaging service on Wednesday for a total of 48 hours, starting at midnight on Thursday, according to Brazilian phone company association Sinditelebrasil . Related: Judge lifts WhatsApp ban in Brazil after ruling block punished users unfairly The injunction was sought by a plaintiff before a criminal court in S\u00e3o Paulo state whose identity was kept secret.The first criminal court of S\u00e3o Bernardo do Campo said in a statement: \u201cWhatsApp did not respond to a court order, dated 23 July, 2015. On 7 August , 2015, the company was notified again of being subject to fixed penalty in case of non-compliance.\u201dFailure of WhatsApp to respond to the court orders led \u201cthe prosecution to request the blocking of services for a period of 48 hours, based on the law of the Civil the internet Marco, which was granted by Judge Sandra Regina Nostre Marques\u201d.WhatsApp has more than 900 million daily active users globally, of which 93 million live in Brazil. According to data from research firm Opinion Box, 86% of Brazilians have used WhatsApp, while other research points to more than 90%, making it the most used app in the country above Facebook.", "tags": ["WhatsApp", "Facebook", "Smartphones", "Internet", "Apps", "Telecoms", "Technology", "Social networking", "Social media", "Brazil", "Mobile phones", "Telecommunications industry", "Americas", "Digital media", "World news", "Business"], "title": "WhatsApp blocked in Brazil for 48 hours by court"},{"date": "2015-12-03T10:38:15Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When a 12-year-old contestant of Brazil\u2019s Junior MasterChef became the subject of sexually explicit tweets, women and girls took to social media to share their experiences of the first time they were sexually harassed or assaulted. The #MeuPrimeiroAssedio hashtag \u2013 which translates as \u201cmy first harassment\u201d \u2013 was used more than 82,000 times on Twitter over five days.An NGO called Think Olga, dedicated to empowering women through information, was one of the forces behind the campaign. Born as a blog back in 2013, Think Olga has now grown into a social phenomenon, responsible for women\u2019s causes being debated in mainstream media and social settings. Related: Meet the feminists changing the world for girls from Kenya to Egypt  Numerous campaigners are seeking to combat the misogyny which they claim is so prevalent in Brazilian society. They point to the fact that abortion is still a crime except in cases of rape and anencephaly of the foetus. In October, legislators pre-approved a law to restrict access to the morning-after pill for rape victims, while the theme of a national high school exam essay \u2013 asking students to write about the prevalence of violence against women in Brazilian society \u2013 provoked backlash from right-wing Christian legislators, academics and students alike. The question was deemed to be controversial, leftist and feminist.Only 397 of Brazil\u2019s 5,565 municipalities have specialised police stations to deal with crimes against women, so those registering sexual assaults must often speak to male police officers who might be unprepared to deal with such crimes. Victim-blaming is not unusual, either; the official police website recommends that women do not walk alone on badly lit streets as a prevention against attacks.Think Olga was created by Juliana de Faria, a journalist from S\u00e3o Paulo who created #ChegaDeFiuFiu (no more catcalls), another game-changing action that put the issue of street harassment on the public\u2019s radar.An online survey of 8,000 women and girls conducted by the Think Olga NGO found that 98% of respondents had suffered some form of harassment. The research also found that 90% of respondents have changed their outfits before leaving the house because they feared harassment, and 81% have given up doing something or going somewhere for the same reason.In response to the findings, Think Olga started an online campaign to educate men and women about street harassment and how it impacts women\u2019s day-to-day lives. \u201cThe first step was to make society see catcalls as a problem, so we could collectively find a solution,\u201d says De Faria. For De Faria, it was important to make people understand that catcalls are not a compliment but a manifestation of issues far more complex and ingrained in society.  Related: Altered images: photography as a tool for gender equality Although she received multiple threats along the way, De Faria persisted and now Chega De Fiu Fiu has a harassment map where women can pinpoint locations all over the country where they have felt violated. In partnership with the Public Defender Office of S\u00e3o Paulo state, the map was distributed on the city\u2019s public transport systems.Think Olga\u2019s work goes beyond sexual issues. The NGO is also addressing women\u2019s representation in academic and scientific fields by raising the profile of female experts. The Interview a Woman campaign was created after De Faria discovered data published in The New York Times about the lack of female sources used in the media.\u201cWe could have written a long blog entry expressing our sadness and outrage, but instead we decided to create a platform where anyone can register as a potential source, and any journalist can have access to it,\u201d she says.I reali\u200b\u200bsed that the women around me were probably as afraid as I was of walking alone in the dark.Think Olga is not only the only group to challenge women\u2019s oppression in Brazil. The Vamos Juntas (Let\u2019s Go Together) Facebook page was created by Babi Souza, a journalist and self-proclaimed feminist from Porto Alegre. The movement encourages women to approach each other when walking alone so they can go to places together. \u201cWhen I was walking home one night, I realised that the women around me were probably as afraid as I was of walking alone in the dark. That reminded me that our biggest fear is sexual violence. Only a woman understands what it is like to look over our shoulder and feel relief on realising that the person behind is another woman,\u201d Souza adds.Through collective funding and the help of a technology company, Vamos Juntas is launching a mobile app where women can log badly lit streets, dangerous places and areas where they were harassed. Using that data, the app will suggest safer routes. Souza calls it \u201cthe Waze of abuse\u201d, referencing the popular traffic and navigation app.There\u2019s a reason why women are using the internet and social media to fight for their rights in Brazil, says Ana Lucia Keunecke, legal and business director of Artemis, an NGO that has been fighting to eradicate violence against women for 10 years. Related: An Arab spring of love matters \u2013 Al Hubb Thaqafa defies sexual taboos \u201cJudges, parliamentarians, politicians and executives are unaware of international treaties signed by Brazil that promote gender equality,\u201d she says. \u201cNot even lawyers are aware that such documents can be used in petitions.\u201d Although the scenario seems worrisome, 63,090 women have called Brazil\u2019s domestic violence helpline this year, 40% more than in 2014, which may just go to show how these social media campaigns are proving to be strong allies of women\u2019s causes.Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Brazil", "Social media", "Women", "Abortion", "Feminism", "Rape", "Digital media", "Americas", "Gender"], "title": "The campaigners challenging misogyny and sexism in Brazil"},{"date": "2015-12-03T05:42:46Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil\u2019s president Dilma Rousseff has begun the fight for her political life after the first impeachment proceedings for more than 20 years were launched against her in Congress. Related: Death by 1,000 defamations: Brazil riven by slow-burn impeachment struggle After months of jockeying, the removal proceedings were pushed forward by her political nemesis \u2013 the lower house speaker Eduardo Cunha \u2013 as Brazil slipped deeper into a crisis that has hamstrung decision-making even while the economy suffers its worst downturn since the Great Depression.On Wednesday night, Cunha finally gave the green light to an opposition motion for the country\u2019s first female president to be ejected from office on allegations that she broke fiscal laws by window dressing government accounts ahead of her re-election last year.Rousseff came out fighting. \u201cI have received with indignation the decision by the head of the lower chamber to [launch] the impeachment process,\u201d she said. \u201cThere is no wrongful act committed by me, nor are there any suspicions that I have misused public money.\u201d In a televised address to the nation, Rousseff expressed her \u201coutrage\u201d at Cunha\u2019s decision and said there was no evidence of any wrongdoing by her. \u201cI\u2019ve committed no illicit act, there is no suspicion hanging over me of any misuse of public money,\u201d the president said. \u201cI don\u2019t have any offshore bank accounts, I have no hidden assets.\u201d Her comment was a direct jab at Cunha, who has been charged with taking millions in bribes in connection to a kickbacks scheme that has embroiled state-run oil company Petrobras. Activists from the ruling Workers Party accuse Cunha and his supporters of plotting a coup.Earlier this year, Cunha acknowledged that an impeachment, which would be the first since 1992, would be a \u201cbackwards step for democracy\u201d. For months, he has sat on more than half a dozen previous opposition proposals to remove an elected head of state who has served only one year of her four-year mandate.However, he has changed his tone as his own position has come under threat. Julius Camargo, one of the whistleblowers in the Lava Jato investigation into corruption at Petrobras, has testified that the Cunha asked him for a $5m bribe \u2013 a claim that the speaker denies. As pressure on Cunha mounted on Wednesday, he finally accepted a case lodged by opposition lawyers H\u00e9lio Bicudo, Miguel Reale and Jana\u00edna Paschoal. It appeared at least partly motivated by self-defence, coming just hours after lawmakers the Workers Party ethics committee announced plans to seek his dismissal on grounds of corruption.Cunha dismissed the idea that his decision was motivated by personal or political reasons. \u201cThe basis of this [impeachment proceeding] is purely technical,\u201d he claimed.On his Facebook page, he wrote that he was responding to the demands of anti-government protests earlier this year. \u201cThe demonstrations that took place throughout Brazil \u2013 on March 15, April 12 and August 16 \u2013 were not in vain!\u201d he wrote. \u201cThe [impeachment] process will be followed by the entire population.\u201dTo proceed, the removal proposal needs the support of at least two-thirds of the deputies, or 342 of the 513 votes in the lower house.If that is successful, Rousseff will have to hand over power to vice-president, Michel Temer \u2013 who is from the same Democratic Movement party (PMDB) as Cunha \u2013 for several months while an inquiry is conducted by the senate. A final decision would then have to be approved by a two-thirds majority in the upper house.Rousseff, who won a narrow but uncontested mandate, may have the votes needed to remain in power, but the escalation of conflict between two of the country\u2019s most powerful figures looks set to worsen the already gloomy outlook for Brazil. Luciano Dias, a political consultant at the Brasilia-based Analise Politica firm, said: \u201cThe chances of President Rousseff being impeached aren\u2019t as big as politicians say now, despite this bold move by Cunha.\u201d\u201cThey are not insignificant, but they are not huge.\u201dThe impeachment debate adds to an already long list of problems for the president: the worst scandal in the country\u2019s history, popularity ratings that have slumped into single digits and a worsening recession. The latest economic figures this week showed Brazil is now heading for its worst downturn since the Great Depression of the 1930s.Unemployment is at a five-year high, inflation is nearly twice the government\u2019s target, the value of wages has fallen about 5% since May 2014, and the nation\u2019s GDP is forecast to shrink this year by about 4%.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil opens impeachment proceedings against president Dilma Rousseff"},{"date": "2015-10-22T14:38:04Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The humble Brazil nut is one of the UK\u2019s most beloved superfoods and a true nutritional powerhouse. It is a great source of protein, minerals and several amino acids that help protect the body from serious disease.What is lesser known about the Brazil nut, however, is its challenging journey from the Amazonian forest floor to store shelves all over the world. Liberation, the UK\u2019S only Fairtrade and farmer-owned nut company, works with a number of nut co-operatives \u2013 COINACAPA, ACEBA and Aire Muje \u2013 to supply good quality nuts and address challenges experienced by the communities that produce them.To commemorate National Nut Day on 22 October, here are some fascinating facts about this humble product of the mighty Amazon forest. 1. The Brazil nut is part of a perfectly orchestrated natural symphonyReaching up to 160 feet, the Brazil nut tree is a true giant of the Amazon, but its survival hinges on an unlikely symbiotic relationship with its own flowers and seed pods, a particular rainforest orchid, the sex lives of bees and the feeding habits of a tropical rodent called agouti. Related: Fairtrade certified mining practices are worth their weight in gold The tree\u2019s flowers can only be pollinated by large-bodied bees who have characteristic large tongues. In turn, the bees cannot reproduce without the rainforest. And lastly, the only animal able to penetrate the rock-hard shell containing the nut seeds and in so doing distribute the seeds further along the forest floor, is the agouti. 2. Brazil nut gatherer communities play a role in protecting the Amazon forestThe Brazil nut trade is a huge economic driver in the Amazon basin. However, unlike most of the other commercial enterprises relying on the forest (such as timber, gold and rubber) the nut is one of the few resources that remain under the control of the region\u2019s poor, mostly farmers, who rely heavily on these trees for their livelihoods.In addition, because Brazil nut trees only grow and flourish under healthy, pristine forest conditions, nut farmers are fiercely protective of the forest surrounding the nut trees, maintaining the exceptionally fragile ecosystem that ensures not only the protection of the Brazil nut trees\u2019 lifecycle but also that of the forest and other species.A crucial contributing factor to the protection of these forests is the organisation of farmers into co-operatives. COINACAPA, a founding shareholder of Liberation Foods, was instrumental in establishing the nut co-operatives.\u201cWhat incentivised us to work together, more than ever, was the fact that so many families were being mistreated by ranch managers,\u201d says Juli\u00e1n P\u00e9rez Ortiz, president of nut co-operative COINACAPA, Bolivia. \u201cWe realised that the only way to liberate these families was for them to organise. Then they could finally be free and get paid a fair price.3. Climate change has a profound impact on the nut supply chainNuts are typically gathered during the rainy season in the wettest region of Bolivia, which means trails leading into the forest and roads leading to shipping points become close to impassable. Rivers are bursting at the banks, and farmers may experience massive delays in transporting their produce.However, the nut-gathering communities are incredibly resilient. In addition, access to pre-financing (provided by a Fairtrade/Liberation partnership) means they are able to start collecting nuts before the rainy season arrives. Pre-finance also enables them to finance equipment, gathering, delivery and transit of goods. 4. Nut gathering is a dangerous businessNut gatherers spend days and weeks gathering nuts and sleeping in the forest before returning home with their produce. Gatherers collect the pods that encase what we know as Brazil nuts \u2013 large shelled fruits, like a coconut, which contain anywhere from 10-25 Brazil nuts each. The shells weigh up to 3kg and, when falling from the height of the tree, can crush a human skull.\u201cYou leave your house thinking that everything will be fine, but if God wills it you could die because of a nut falling on your head,\u201d says Bolivian nut gatherer Santos Pereira Panduro \u201cIt\u2019s happened to many people I know. In addition to the falling nuts, there are also snakes in the forest. One of them bit my wife and she was unconscious for over an hour. Luckily she survived.\u201dOnce collected, gatherers carry the pods out of the forest back to their communities. From there, it is still around 1,200 miles to the port from where the nuts will be shipped to Liberation. The nuts in shell are transported two to three days down river in canoes to a collection point where they are shelled with special cracking machines, cleaned, quality tested and packed ready for export. From there, the nuts are transported by lorry to La Paz and ultimately to the Arica port in Chile.5. Information is power, and a fair price is justice  Related: Why sustainable sourcing leads to growth we can all be proud of Evidently, Brazil nut co-operatives have faced a number of significant challenges over the years. One particular challenge that might not be immediately obvious is the fact that of all the players in the supply chain, farmers and workers typically have the least amount of information on the wider industry. This is something that Liberation wanted to change.\u201cWe found that giving farmers access to information was a powerful motivating factor for the gatherers who have to spend weeks on end in the dangerous forest environment gathering nuts,\u201d says Kate Gaskell, Liberation managing director. \u201cUnderstanding how quality affects the price, they are encouraged more than ever to treat nuts in the right way which has led to an improvement in quality.\u201dBrazil nut-cooperatives have faced a number of issues over the years \u2013 these include currency fluctuations, adverse weather conditions and the complexity of managing contract processers to shell and pack nuts at origin. One thing that has seen them through tough times was the knowledge that, ultimately, they would be paid a fair price for their produce.\u201cA fair price brings justice,\u201d says Bolivian nut gatherer Yoselina Quette \u201cIt\u2019s fair that if someone works incredibly hard under difficult circumstances, that they should be properly rewarded. To people in the UK we have this message: if you are willing to pay a fair price, we will continue searching out quality nuts.\u201dContent on this page is paid for and provided by Fairtrade Foundation, sponsor of the spotlight on commodities series", "tags": ["Sustainable Business - Fairtrade partner zone"], "title": "Tracking the challenging journey of the Brazil nut"},{"date": "2015-12-17T17:36:10Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Millions of Brazilian WhatsApp users had their service disrupted for hours on Thursday as judges flipped back and forth on how to punish the company for failing to cooperate with a criminal investigation. Related: WhatsApp blocked in Brazil for 48 hours by court The messaging service, which is owned by Facebook, was initially blocked across the country at midnight under an injunction issued by the first criminal court of S\u00e3o Bernardo do Campo.In a statement, the court accused WhatsApp \u2013 which was the most popular download in Brazil last year \u2013 of twice failing to comply with its orders. It instructed telephone operators to block access to the service for 48 hours.The ban outraged users of the service, who account for almost half of the 200 million population and more than 10% of all WhatsApp users worldwide.\u201cHow many people are affected, be it for fun or for work? How many shops sell more via WhatsApp than in their physical shop. It interferes even in the economy,\u201d noted one.Qts pessoas afetadas, seja por divers\u00e3o ou trabalho. Qts lojas vendem mais pelo #WhatsApp do que na loja f\u00edsica... Interfere at\u00e9 na economiaOthers, however, responded with jokes. A Twitter meme with the hashtag #Nessas48HorasEuVou (#Inthese48hoursIwill) collected humorous alternative ways of passing the time, such as being stranded on a desert island.Facebook\u2019 s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, expressed his disappointment online.\u201cThis is a sad day for Brazil. Until today, Brazil has been an ally in creating an open internet,\u201d WhatsApp\u2019s chief executive, Jan Koum, said it was \u201csad to see Brazil isolate itself from the rest of the world\u201d.In the afternoon, however, a different judge in S\u00e3o Paulo state lifted the restrictions on that grounds that \u201cit does not seem reasonable that millions of users are affected\u201d because of the company\u2019s wrongdoing. Instead, the judge recommended a financial penalty.The origin of the dispute is unclear. Local media claimed that the judge in the first case requested records relating to alleged members of the First Capital Command, Brazil\u2019s most powerful organised crime group. This has not been confirmed by the court.Adriano Mendes, a lawyer who specialises in digital law, said WhatsApp was put in a difficult position because the first judge ordered it to release information that it could have been condemned for in the US under privacy laws if shared.If Brazil had signed the Budapest Convention on information sharing instead of drawing up its own law, Mendes said the legal situation would have been clearer.\u201cIn other countries, WhatsApp would have cooperated with the judge without any issues. But it\u2019s important to say that this is an extreme measure that should have never been used,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is the same as if a judge ruled that the water be shut off in an entire town because of a leak in one house,\u201d he said.Not everyone was unhappy with the disruption.Only one of the four big telephone operators, Oi, contested the ruling. This is unsurprising given the hostility that most feel towards WhatsApp, which offers free calls that eat into their market share and profits.Rival messaging services also appear to have benefited. Telegram is said to have attracted more than a million new users, though the company said on Twitter that it preferred natural growth to such spikes. It still has less than a tenth of the share of WhatsApp.Huimin Chu, a Rio-based student, said WhatsApp was his main way of communicating with friends, but its temporary loss made him consider alternatives. \u201cThe block made me realise how much I depend on the messaging service, but I\u2019ve enjoyed not having it for a while. It means you have to try other stuff, like actually meeting and talking to people.\u201d ", "tags": ["Brazil", "Facebook", "World news", "WhatsApp", "Technology", "Social networking"], "title": "Judge lifts WhatsApp ban in Brazil after ruling block punished users unfairly"},{"date": "2015-12-16T17:23:20Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A Brazilian lawmaker who said Amazon tribal peoples should be left to starve to death and are \u201ca bunch of little gays\u201d has been named Racist of the Year by the indigenous rights group Survival International.Fernando Furtado, a lawmaker in Maranh\u00e3o state, was given the award for a speech he gave in July close to the border of territory of the Aw\u00e1 people, a tribe which has been pushed to the brink of extinction by deforestation and clashes with ranchers. Addressing an audience of loggers and ranchers, Furtado said: \u201cThey don\u2019t know how to plant rice, so let them die of hunger in poverty. That\u2019s the best thing, because they don\u2019t know how to work.\u201dHe also called indigenous people \u201ca bunch of little gays\u201d, the NGO said.Furtado\u2019s outburst triggered an uproar in Brazil and he was forced to issue a formal retraction.A string of fires have been set by illegal loggers in that region of Maranh\u00e3o, the latest of them in October. For a month the flames scorched one of the main indigenous territories, threatening the lives of several hundred Aw\u00e1 people.\u201cThis includes a group of uncontacted people, who are one of the most vulnerable societies on the planet,\u201d Survival International said in a statement. Related: Vast Amazon wildfire destroys forest in Brazil and threatens uncontacted tribe Furtado\u2019s comments should be considered an incitement to racial hatred, the NGO said.After a government operation to expel loggers from the Aw\u00e1 reserve \u2013 prompted by a high-profile campaign by Survival International \u2013 there is a strong resentment toward tribes in the region.\u201cThese loathsome remarks indicate the extent of racism against tribal peoples among some of the most powerful people in Brazilian society,\u201d Survival International\u2019s director, Stephen Corry, said.About 900,000 Indians from 305 ethnic groups live in Brazil, out of a total population of 204 million. Their reserves, mostly in the Amazon, account for 12% of Brazil\u2019s territory.But boundaries still remain to be set for much of that Indian land and much of it has been occupied by settlers.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas", "Indigenous peoples", "Race issues"], "title": "Brazil politician named racist of the year for comments about indigenous people"},{"date": "2015-12-17T10:28:52Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil has blocked Facebook\u2019s WhatsApp messaging app, preventing users in the country from connecting to service or sending messages.A Brazilian court ordered mobile phone providers to block all access to the internet-based messaging service on Wednesday for a total of 48 hours, starting at midnight on Thursday, according to Brazilian phone company association Sinditelebrasil . Related: Judge lifts WhatsApp ban in Brazil after ruling block punished users unfairly The injunction was sought by a plaintiff before a criminal court in S\u00e3o Paulo state whose identity was kept secret.The first criminal court of S\u00e3o Bernardo do Campo said in a statement: \u201cWhatsApp did not respond to a court order, dated 23 July, 2015. On 7 August , 2015, the company was notified again of being subject to fixed penalty in case of non-compliance.\u201dFailure of WhatsApp to respond to the court orders led \u201cthe prosecution to request the blocking of services for a period of 48 hours, based on the law of the Civil the internet Marco, which was granted by Judge Sandra Regina Nostre Marques\u201d.WhatsApp has more than 900 million daily active users globally, of which 93 million live in Brazil. According to data from research firm Opinion Box, 86% of Brazilians have used WhatsApp, while other research points to more than 90%, making it the most used app in the country above Facebook.", "tags": ["WhatsApp", "Facebook", "Smartphones", "Internet", "Apps", "Telecoms", "Technology", "Social networking", "Social media", "Brazil", "Mobile phones", "Telecommunications industry", "Americas", "Digital media", "World news", "Business"], "title": "WhatsApp blocked in Brazil for 48 hours by court"},{"date": "2015-12-03T10:38:15Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "When a 12-year-old contestant of Brazil\u2019s Junior MasterChef became the subject of sexually explicit tweets, women and girls took to social media to share their experiences of the first time they were sexually harassed or assaulted. The #MeuPrimeiroAssedio hashtag \u2013 which translates as \u201cmy first harassment\u201d \u2013 was used more than 82,000 times on Twitter over five days.An NGO called Think Olga, dedicated to empowering women through information, was one of the forces behind the campaign. Born as a blog back in 2013, Think Olga has now grown into a social phenomenon, responsible for women\u2019s causes being debated in mainstream media and social settings. Related: Meet the feminists changing the world for girls from Kenya to Egypt  Numerous campaigners are seeking to combat the misogyny which they claim is so prevalent in Brazilian society. They point to the fact that abortion is still a crime except in cases of rape and anencephaly of the foetus. In October, legislators pre-approved a law to restrict access to the morning-after pill for rape victims, while the theme of a national high school exam essay \u2013 asking students to write about the prevalence of violence against women in Brazilian society \u2013 provoked backlash from right-wing Christian legislators, academics and students alike. The question was deemed to be controversial, leftist and feminist.Only 397 of Brazil\u2019s 5,565 municipalities have specialised police stations to deal with crimes against women, so those registering sexual assaults must often speak to male police officers who might be unprepared to deal with such crimes. Victim-blaming is not unusual, either; the official police website recommends that women do not walk alone on badly lit streets as a prevention against attacks.Think Olga was created by Juliana de Faria, a journalist from S\u00e3o Paulo who created #ChegaDeFiuFiu (no more catcalls), another game-changing action that put the issue of street harassment on the public\u2019s radar.An online survey of 8,000 women and girls conducted by the Think Olga NGO found that 98% of respondents had suffered some form of harassment. The research also found that 90% of respondents have changed their outfits before leaving the house because they feared harassment, and 81% have given up doing something or going somewhere for the same reason.In response to the findings, Think Olga started an online campaign to educate men and women about street harassment and how it impacts women\u2019s day-to-day lives. \u201cThe first step was to make society see catcalls as a problem, so we could collectively find a solution,\u201d says De Faria. For De Faria, it was important to make people understand that catcalls are not a compliment but a manifestation of issues far more complex and ingrained in society.  Related: Altered images: photography as a tool for gender equality Although she received multiple threats along the way, De Faria persisted and now Chega De Fiu Fiu has a harassment map where women can pinpoint locations all over the country where they have felt violated. In partnership with the Public Defender Office of S\u00e3o Paulo state, the map was distributed on the city\u2019s public transport systems.Think Olga\u2019s work goes beyond sexual issues. The NGO is also addressing women\u2019s representation in academic and scientific fields by raising the profile of female experts. The Interview a Woman campaign was created after De Faria discovered data published in The New York Times about the lack of female sources used in the media.\u201cWe could have written a long blog entry expressing our sadness and outrage, but instead we decided to create a platform where anyone can register as a potential source, and any journalist can have access to it,\u201d she says.I reali\u200b\u200bsed that the women around me were probably as afraid as I was of walking alone in the dark.Think Olga is not only the only group to challenge women\u2019s oppression in Brazil. The Vamos Juntas (Let\u2019s Go Together) Facebook page was created by Babi Souza, a journalist and self-proclaimed feminist from Porto Alegre. The movement encourages women to approach each other when walking alone so they can go to places together. \u201cWhen I was walking home one night, I realised that the women around me were probably as afraid as I was of walking alone in the dark. That reminded me that our biggest fear is sexual violence. Only a woman understands what it is like to look over our shoulder and feel relief on realising that the person behind is another woman,\u201d Souza adds.Through collective funding and the help of a technology company, Vamos Juntas is launching a mobile app where women can log badly lit streets, dangerous places and areas where they were harassed. Using that data, the app will suggest safer routes. Souza calls it \u201cthe Waze of abuse\u201d, referencing the popular traffic and navigation app.There\u2019s a reason why women are using the internet and social media to fight for their rights in Brazil, says Ana Lucia Keunecke, legal and business director of Artemis, an NGO that has been fighting to eradicate violence against women for 10 years. Related: An Arab spring of love matters \u2013 Al Hubb Thaqafa defies sexual taboos \u201cJudges, parliamentarians, politicians and executives are unaware of international treaties signed by Brazil that promote gender equality,\u201d she says. \u201cNot even lawyers are aware that such documents can be used in petitions.\u201d Although the scenario seems worrisome, 63,090 women have called Brazil\u2019s domestic violence helpline this year, 40% more than in 2014, which may just go to show how these social media campaigns are proving to be strong allies of women\u2019s causes.Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter.", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Brazil", "Social media", "Women", "Abortion", "Feminism", "Rape", "Digital media", "Americas", "Gender"], "title": "The campaigners challenging misogyny and sexism in Brazil"},{"date": "2015-12-03T05:42:46Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Brazil\u2019s president Dilma Rousseff has begun the fight for her political life after the first impeachment proceedings for more than 20 years were launched against her in Congress. Related: Death by 1,000 defamations: Brazil riven by slow-burn impeachment struggle After months of jockeying, the removal proceedings were pushed forward by her political nemesis \u2013 the lower house speaker Eduardo Cunha \u2013 as Brazil slipped deeper into a crisis that has hamstrung decision-making even while the economy suffers its worst downturn since the Great Depression.On Wednesday night, Cunha finally gave the green light to an opposition motion for the country\u2019s first female president to be ejected from office on allegations that she broke fiscal laws by window dressing government accounts ahead of her re-election last year.Rousseff came out fighting. \u201cI have received with indignation the decision by the head of the lower chamber to [launch] the impeachment process,\u201d she said. \u201cThere is no wrongful act committed by me, nor are there any suspicions that I have misused public money.\u201d In a televised address to the nation, Rousseff expressed her \u201coutrage\u201d at Cunha\u2019s decision and said there was no evidence of any wrongdoing by her. \u201cI\u2019ve committed no illicit act, there is no suspicion hanging over me of any misuse of public money,\u201d the president said. \u201cI don\u2019t have any offshore bank accounts, I have no hidden assets.\u201d Her comment was a direct jab at Cunha, who has been charged with taking millions in bribes in connection to a kickbacks scheme that has embroiled state-run oil company Petrobras. Activists from the ruling Workers Party accuse Cunha and his supporters of plotting a coup.Earlier this year, Cunha acknowledged that an impeachment, which would be the first since 1992, would be a \u201cbackwards step for democracy\u201d. For months, he has sat on more than half a dozen previous opposition proposals to remove an elected head of state who has served only one year of her four-year mandate.However, he has changed his tone as his own position has come under threat. Julius Camargo, one of the whistleblowers in the Lava Jato investigation into corruption at Petrobras, has testified that the Cunha asked him for a $5m bribe \u2013 a claim that the speaker denies. As pressure on Cunha mounted on Wednesday, he finally accepted a case lodged by opposition lawyers H\u00e9lio Bicudo, Miguel Reale and Jana\u00edna Paschoal. It appeared at least partly motivated by self-defence, coming just hours after lawmakers the Workers Party ethics committee announced plans to seek his dismissal on grounds of corruption.Cunha dismissed the idea that his decision was motivated by personal or political reasons. \u201cThe basis of this [impeachment proceeding] is purely technical,\u201d he claimed.On his Facebook page, he wrote that he was responding to the demands of anti-government protests earlier this year. \u201cThe demonstrations that took place throughout Brazil \u2013 on March 15, April 12 and August 16 \u2013 were not in vain!\u201d he wrote. \u201cThe [impeachment] process will be followed by the entire population.\u201dTo proceed, the removal proposal needs the support of at least two-thirds of the deputies, or 342 of the 513 votes in the lower house.If that is successful, Rousseff will have to hand over power to vice-president, Michel Temer \u2013 who is from the same Democratic Movement party (PMDB) as Cunha \u2013 for several months while an inquiry is conducted by the senate. A final decision would then have to be approved by a two-thirds majority in the upper house.Rousseff, who won a narrow but uncontested mandate, may have the votes needed to remain in power, but the escalation of conflict between two of the country\u2019s most powerful figures looks set to worsen the already gloomy outlook for Brazil. Luciano Dias, a political consultant at the Brasilia-based Analise Politica firm, said: \u201cThe chances of President Rousseff being impeached aren\u2019t as big as politicians say now, despite this bold move by Cunha.\u201d\u201cThey are not insignificant, but they are not huge.\u201dThe impeachment debate adds to an already long list of problems for the president: the worst scandal in the country\u2019s history, popularity ratings that have slumped into single digits and a worsening recession. The latest economic figures this week showed Brazil is now heading for its worst downturn since the Great Depression of the 1930s.Unemployment is at a five-year high, inflation is nearly twice the government\u2019s target, the value of wages has fallen about 5% since May 2014, and the nation\u2019s GDP is forecast to shrink this year by about 4%.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Dilma Rousseff", "Americas"], "title": "Brazil opens impeachment proceedings against president Dilma Rousseff"},{"date": "2015-10-22T14:38:04Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "The humble Brazil nut is one of the UK\u2019s most beloved superfoods and a true nutritional powerhouse. It is a great source of protein, minerals and several amino acids that help protect the body from serious disease.What is lesser known about the Brazil nut, however, is its challenging journey from the Amazonian forest floor to store shelves all over the world. Liberation, the UK\u2019S only Fairtrade and farmer-owned nut company, works with a number of nut co-operatives \u2013 COINACAPA, ACEBA and Aire Muje \u2013 to supply good quality nuts and address challenges experienced by the communities that produce them.To commemorate National Nut Day on 22 October, here are some fascinating facts about this humble product of the mighty Amazon forest. 1. The Brazil nut is part of a perfectly orchestrated natural symphonyReaching up to 160 feet, the Brazil nut tree is a true giant of the Amazon, but its survival hinges on an unlikely symbiotic relationship with its own flowers and seed pods, a particular rainforest orchid, the sex lives of bees and the feeding habits of a tropical rodent called agouti. Related: Fairtrade certified mining practices are worth their weight in gold The tree\u2019s flowers can only be pollinated by large-bodied bees who have characteristic large tongues. In turn, the bees cannot reproduce without the rainforest. And lastly, the only animal able to penetrate the rock-hard shell containing the nut seeds and in so doing distribute the seeds further along the forest floor, is the agouti. 2. Brazil nut gatherer communities play a role in protecting the Amazon forestThe Brazil nut trade is a huge economic driver in the Amazon basin. However, unlike most of the other commercial enterprises relying on the forest (such as timber, gold and rubber) the nut is one of the few resources that remain under the control of the region\u2019s poor, mostly farmers, who rely heavily on these trees for their livelihoods.In addition, because Brazil nut trees only grow and flourish under healthy, pristine forest conditions, nut farmers are fiercely protective of the forest surrounding the nut trees, maintaining the exceptionally fragile ecosystem that ensures not only the protection of the Brazil nut trees\u2019 lifecycle but also that of the forest and other species.A crucial contributing factor to the protection of these forests is the organisation of farmers into co-operatives. COINACAPA, a founding shareholder of Liberation Foods, was instrumental in establishing the nut co-operatives.\u201cWhat incentivised us to work together, more than ever, was the fact that so many families were being mistreated by ranch managers,\u201d says Juli\u00e1n P\u00e9rez Ortiz, president of nut co-operative COINACAPA, Bolivia. \u201cWe realised that the only way to liberate these families was for them to organise. Then they could finally be free and get paid a fair price.3. Climate change has a profound impact on the nut supply chainNuts are typically gathered during the rainy season in the wettest region of Bolivia, which means trails leading into the forest and roads leading to shipping points become close to impassable. Rivers are bursting at the banks, and farmers may experience massive delays in transporting their produce.However, the nut-gathering communities are incredibly resilient. In addition, access to pre-financing (provided by a Fairtrade/Liberation partnership) means they are able to start collecting nuts before the rainy season arrives. Pre-finance also enables them to finance equipment, gathering, delivery and transit of goods. 4. Nut gathering is a dangerous businessNut gatherers spend days and weeks gathering nuts and sleeping in the forest before returning home with their produce. Gatherers collect the pods that encase what we know as Brazil nuts \u2013 large shelled fruits, like a coconut, which contain anywhere from 10-25 Brazil nuts each. The shells weigh up to 3kg and, when falling from the height of the tree, can crush a human skull.\u201cYou leave your house thinking that everything will be fine, but if God wills it you could die because of a nut falling on your head,\u201d says Bolivian nut gatherer Santos Pereira Panduro \u201cIt\u2019s happened to many people I know. In addition to the falling nuts, there are also snakes in the forest. One of them bit my wife and she was unconscious for over an hour. Luckily she survived.\u201dOnce collected, gatherers carry the pods out of the forest back to their communities. From there, it is still around 1,200 miles to the port from where the nuts will be shipped to Liberation. The nuts in shell are transported two to three days down river in canoes to a collection point where they are shelled with special cracking machines, cleaned, quality tested and packed ready for export. From there, the nuts are transported by lorry to La Paz and ultimately to the Arica port in Chile.5. Information is power, and a fair price is justice  Related: Why sustainable sourcing leads to growth we can all be proud of Evidently, Brazil nut co-operatives have faced a number of significant challenges over the years. One particular challenge that might not be immediately obvious is the fact that of all the players in the supply chain, farmers and workers typically have the least amount of information on the wider industry. This is something that Liberation wanted to change.\u201cWe found that giving farmers access to information was a powerful motivating factor for the gatherers who have to spend weeks on end in the dangerous forest environment gathering nuts,\u201d says Kate Gaskell, Liberation managing director. \u201cUnderstanding how quality affects the price, they are encouraged more than ever to treat nuts in the right way which has led to an improvement in quality.\u201dBrazil nut-cooperatives have faced a number of issues over the years \u2013 these include currency fluctuations, adverse weather conditions and the complexity of managing contract processers to shell and pack nuts at origin. One thing that has seen them through tough times was the knowledge that, ultimately, they would be paid a fair price for their produce.\u201cA fair price brings justice,\u201d says Bolivian nut gatherer Yoselina Quette \u201cIt\u2019s fair that if someone works incredibly hard under difficult circumstances, that they should be properly rewarded. To people in the UK we have this message: if you are willing to pay a fair price, we will continue searching out quality nuts.\u201dContent on this page is paid for and provided by Fairtrade Foundation, sponsor of the spotlight on commodities series", "tags": ["Sustainable Business - Fairtrade partner zone"], "title": "Tracking the challenging journey of the Brazil nut"},{"date": "2015-12-17T17:36:10Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "Millions of Brazilian WhatsApp users had their service disrupted for hours on Thursday as judges flipped back and forth on how to punish the company for failing to cooperate with a criminal investigation. Related: WhatsApp blocked in Brazil for 48 hours by court The messaging service, which is owned by Facebook, was initially blocked across the country at midnight under an injunction issued by the first criminal court of S\u00e3o Bernardo do Campo.In a statement, the court accused WhatsApp \u2013 which was the most popular download in Brazil last year \u2013 of twice failing to comply with its orders. It instructed telephone operators to block access to the service for 48 hours.The ban outraged users of the service, who account for almost half of the 200 million population and more than 10% of all WhatsApp users worldwide.\u201cHow many people are affected, be it for fun or for work? How many shops sell more via WhatsApp than in their physical shop. It interferes even in the economy,\u201d noted one.Qts pessoas afetadas, seja por divers\u00e3o ou trabalho. Qts lojas vendem mais pelo #WhatsApp do que na loja f\u00edsica... Interfere at\u00e9 na economiaOthers, however, responded with jokes. A Twitter meme with the hashtag #Nessas48HorasEuVou (#Inthese48hoursIwill) collected humorous alternative ways of passing the time, such as being stranded on a desert island.Facebook\u2019 s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, expressed his disappointment online.\u201cThis is a sad day for Brazil. Until today, Brazil has been an ally in creating an open internet,\u201d WhatsApp\u2019s chief executive, Jan Koum, said it was \u201csad to see Brazil isolate itself from the rest of the world\u201d.In the afternoon, however, a different judge in S\u00e3o Paulo state lifted the restrictions on that grounds that \u201cit does not seem reasonable that millions of users are affected\u201d because of the company\u2019s wrongdoing. Instead, the judge recommended a financial penalty.The origin of the dispute is unclear. Local media claimed that the judge in the first case requested records relating to alleged members of the First Capital Command, Brazil\u2019s most powerful organised crime group. This has not been confirmed by the court.Adriano Mendes, a lawyer who specialises in digital law, said WhatsApp was put in a difficult position because the first judge ordered it to release information that it could have been condemned for in the US under privacy laws if shared.If Brazil had signed the Budapest Convention on information sharing instead of drawing up its own law, Mendes said the legal situation would have been clearer.\u201cIn other countries, WhatsApp would have cooperated with the judge without any issues. But it\u2019s important to say that this is an extreme measure that should have never been used,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is the same as if a judge ruled that the water be shut off in an entire town because of a leak in one house,\u201d he said.Not everyone was unhappy with the disruption.Only one of the four big telephone operators, Oi, contested the ruling. This is unsurprising given the hostility that most feel towards WhatsApp, which offers free calls that eat into their market share and profits.Rival messaging services also appear to have benefited. Telegram is said to have attracted more than a million new users, though the company said on Twitter that it preferred natural growth to such spikes. It still has less than a tenth of the share of WhatsApp.Huimin Chu, a Rio-based student, said WhatsApp was his main way of communicating with friends, but its temporary loss made him consider alternatives. \u201cThe block made me realise how much I depend on the messaging service, but I\u2019ve enjoyed not having it for a while. It means you have to try other stuff, like actually meeting and talking to people.\u201d ", "tags": ["Brazil", "Facebook", "World news", "WhatsApp", "Technology", "Social networking"], "title": "Judge lifts WhatsApp ban in Brazil after ruling block punished users unfairly"},{"date": "2015-12-16T17:23:20Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "A Brazilian lawmaker who said Amazon tribal peoples should be left to starve to death and are \u201ca bunch of little gays\u201d has been named Racist of the Year by the indigenous rights group Survival International.Fernando Furtado, a lawmaker in Maranh\u00e3o state, was given the award for a speech he gave in July close to the border of territory of the Aw\u00e1 people, a tribe which has been pushed to the brink of extinction by deforestation and clashes with ranchers. Addressing an audience of loggers and ranchers, Furtado said: \u201cThey don\u2019t know how to plant rice, so let them die of hunger in poverty. That\u2019s the best thing, because they don\u2019t know how to work.\u201dHe also called indigenous people \u201ca bunch of little gays\u201d, the NGO said.Furtado\u2019s outburst triggered an uproar in Brazil and he was forced to issue a formal retraction.A string of fires have been set by illegal loggers in that region of Maranh\u00e3o, the latest of them in October. For a month the flames scorched one of the main indigenous territories, threatening the lives of several hundred Aw\u00e1 people.\u201cThis includes a group of uncontacted people, who are one of the most vulnerable societies on the planet,\u201d Survival International said in a statement. Related: Vast Amazon wildfire destroys forest in Brazil and threatens uncontacted tribe Furtado\u2019s comments should be considered an incitement to racial hatred, the NGO said.After a government operation to expel loggers from the Aw\u00e1 reserve \u2013 prompted by a high-profile campaign by Survival International \u2013 there is a strong resentment toward tribes in the region.\u201cThese loathsome remarks indicate the extent of racism against tribal peoples among some of the most powerful people in Brazilian society,\u201d Survival International\u2019s director, Stephen Corry, said.About 900,000 Indians from 305 ethnic groups live in Brazil, out of a total population of 204 million. Their reserves, mostly in the Amazon, account for 12% of Brazil\u2019s territory.But boundaries still remain to be set for much of that Indian land and much of it has been occupied by settlers.", "tags": ["Brazil", "World news", "Americas", "Indigenous peoples", "Race issues"], "title": "Brazil politician named racist of the year for comments about indigenous people"},{"date": "2015-12-09T15:12:55Z", "country": "brazil", "content": "For 25 years, Brazil\u2019s biggest political party has made and broken governments, patiently profiting from patronage without ever taking an ideological stance or an overt leadership role.But with the country now in the midst of a political and economic crisis they helped to precipitate, elements in the king-making Brazilian Democratic Movement party are finally pushing their own claim to the throne.Although nominally part of the ruling coalition, senior members of the PMDB (the Portuguese acronym by which it is best known) are peeling away to support an impeachment bid against President Dilma Rousseff.Rousseff is still favoured to survive, but the odds for impeachment have narrowed in the past week as PMDB support for the government has started to crumble.On Monday, aviation minister Eliseu Padilha resigned. Then on Tuesday, vice-president Michel Temer was revealed to have sent what reads like a petulant break-up letter to Rousseff in which he complained of being given only a \u201cdecorative\u201d role.\u201cI have to get this off my chest,\u201d he wrote in the letter, which was leaked and published by Brazilian newspapers on Tuesday. \u201cI know that you do not trust me and the PMDB today, and I know you won\u2019t tomorrow. I am sorry, but this is my conviction.\u201d Strengthening suspicions that this signalled a shift into the anti-Rousseff camp, Temer \u2013 who would become president if Rousseff were removed \u2013 later told a journalist that he believed there were legal grounds for the impeachment motion.There are no shortage of reasons why the PMDB might fail to inspire trust in its allies. Although the party played a prominent role in Brazil\u2019s transition from a military dictatorship in 1985, it has spent most of the years since aligning itself with any party \u2013 centre-right or centre-left \u2013 capable of securing power. With no overarching ideology, the party has often resembled a vipers nest of deeply divided factions, ranging from conservative rural landowners and urban social democrats to evangelical nationalists and former guerrillas whose only common ground is a desire to secure the patronage, prestige and \u2013 very often \u2013 bribes that come with government posts. Over the past three decades the PMDB has been involved in every major corruption scandal. Many of its members \u2013 including house speaker Eduardo Cunha and senate president Renan Calheiros \u2013 have been implicated in the Lava Jato investigation into billions of dollars of kickbacks from Petrobras and other major corporations that were used to grease the wheels of politics. Related: Death by 1,000 defamations: Brazil riven by slow-burn impeachment struggle There is particular indignation that Cunha is now pushing for the impeachment of the president in part because he is himself threatened with removal from office \u2013 and subsequent arrest \u2013 for allegedly taking bribes and stashing money into secret Swiss bank accounts. He denies any wrongdoing.By contrast the case against Rousseff seems less grave. She is accused of window-dressing public finances ahead of last year\u2019s election by using money from state banks. This was an act of fiscal wrongdoing, though it had a precedent with previous administrations and many legal experts say it is insufficient grounds to remove a presidents.Rodrigo Motta, a history professor at the Federal University of Minas Gerais and author of a book on the party, said the PMDB was hoping to use the current crisis to secure the middle ground of Brazilian politics. But he condemned the morality of Cunha\u2019s tactics and doubted how much difference a change of leadership would make. \u201cThe irony is that the PMDB is up to its neck in corruption, just like the others,\u201d he said. \u201cIn the midst of a political crisis, it makes no sense to condemn one side and absolve the other, as if this would trigger any change.\u201dMany in the PMDB realise this, which has worsened splits in the party. Although Cunha has been openly plotting against the president for months and Temer now appears to be drifting away, the party\u2019s leader of the house, Leonardo Picciani, and several state governors have lined up to support the government. Party insiders estimate that Rousseff also has the backing of about 40 to 45 of the 67 PMDB deputies. Related: Brazil's supreme court suspends impeachment moves against president In the first big test of parliamentary loyalties on Tuesday, Rousseff lost 272-199 in a secret vote on the make-up of an impeachment committee that will decide whether to move forward with her case. The ballot \u2013 which saw scuffles between lawmakers \u2013 looked set to be a major setback that left hostile lawmakers from the PMDB and other parties dominating the 65-member committee. But this was successfully challenged in the supreme court, which said the vote should have been open. Other battles will follow in what could prove a drawn-out impeachment process. But whether now or in a few years time, the PMDB and Workers party appear to be on course for a divorce. After decades in the background, the PMDB decided earlier this year to field its own candidate at the next presidential election in 2018. Senior party grandees, including Temer, Cunha, Calheiros and Rio city mayor Eduardo Paes, are already jostling for position.This has meant the impeachment fight is not just between Rousseff and the opposition, but between PMDB rivals trying to get ahead of one another. It is a familiar, though unedifying sight for many politicians and observers.\u201cThe internal struggle of the PMDB is sinking Brazil,\u201d Socialism and Liberty party lawmaker Jean Wylls lamented on his Facebook page.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Dilma Rousseff", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Dilma Rousseff's fate as Brazil president could hinge on her political enemies"}]