[{"date": "2008-03-20T15:02:43Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A notorious paedophile who moved to Australia more than 50 years ago arrived back in the UK today after he was deported by the Queensland authorities.Raymond Horne was released yesterday after serving a 12-year sentence for abusing two homeless boys, and was immediately put on a plane to London. He arrived at Heathrow airport with his head covered by a blanket where he was met by police.The Australian authorities had planned to keep the 61-year-old in custody indefinitely but immigration officials decided to revoke his visa and deport him.Despite having emigrated with his family from Britain to Queensland in 1952, Horne never took Australian citizenship and was declared an \"unlawful non-citizen\".The Brisbane Courier Mail reported that a prison doctor said the risk of paedophiles such as Horne reoffending increased after deportation due to their heightened anxiety.The Home Office said: \"Where it is known that a sex offender convicted in another country is to be deported to the UK, he is met at the port of entry by the police who interview him and pass any relevant information to the police in the area to which the offender is proposing to live.\"Horne will be placed on the sex offenders register, meaning he will face a five-year jail sentence if found alone with a child or near a playground.Horne was first jailed in 1968 for two months for abusing boys. In 1992 he was again imprisoned for indecently assaulting children.His latest sentence was imposed after he raped two homeless boys, aged 13 and 15, while working for a charity. The judge described Horne as \"a persistent sex offender who preyed upon young, vulnerable boys\", according to the Courier Mail.The Queensland police and corrective services minister, Judy Spence, said the state would be a safer place without Horne.", "tags": ["Crime", "UK news", "Australia news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia returns paedophile to UK"},{"date": "2008-03-20T15:02:43Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A notorious paedophile who moved to Australia more than 50 years ago arrived back in the UK today after he was deported by the Queensland authorities.Raymond Horne was released yesterday after serving a 12-year sentence for abusing two homeless boys, and was immediately put on a plane to London. He arrived at Heathrow airport with his head covered by a blanket where he was met by police.The Australian authorities had planned to keep the 61-year-old in custody indefinitely but immigration officials decided to revoke his visa and deport him.Despite having emigrated with his family from Britain to Queensland in 1952, Horne never took Australian citizenship and was declared an \"unlawful non-citizen\".The Brisbane Courier Mail reported that a prison doctor said the risk of paedophiles such as Horne reoffending increased after deportation due to their heightened anxiety.The Home Office said: \"Where it is known that a sex offender convicted in another country is to be deported to the UK, he is met at the port of entry by the police who interview him and pass any relevant information to the police in the area to which the offender is proposing to live.\"Horne will be placed on the sex offenders register, meaning he will face a five-year jail sentence if found alone with a child or near a playground.Horne was first jailed in 1968 for two months for abusing boys. In 1992 he was again imprisoned for indecently assaulting children.His latest sentence was imposed after he raped two homeless boys, aged 13 and 15, while working for a charity. The judge described Horne as \"a persistent sex offender who preyed upon young, vulnerable boys\", according to the Courier Mail.The Queensland police and corrective services minister, Judy Spence, said the state would be a safer place without Horne.", "tags": ["Crime", "UK news", "Australia news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia returns paedophile to UK"},{"date": "2008-02-08T17:29:27Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Tourism Australia, which infamously ruffled British sensibilities with the controversial \"Where the bloody hell are you?\" TV ad campaign is reviewing its global advertising account.The statutory review has begun as Tourism Australia's three-year contracts with M&C Saatchi, which develops the creative ads, and Carat, which is responsible for media planning and buying, come to an end in June.Tourism Australia has appointed Sydney-based pitch consultants The Agency Register to provide strategic advice on selecting the advertising agencies to handle the account.Rick Allert, the chairman of Tourism Australia, said there would be a \"rigorous procurement process\".The official tender document for agencies made it clear that it would not just look to award the account to the agency that came in with the cheapest fee. \"Price is not the sole determining factor in the assessment of value,\" it said. \"Value considers excellence in creative skills, servicing capabilities and the right organisational fit, alongside the cost of services.\"The tender document places the \"estimated value\" of the fees to the winning agencies at A$10m (\u00a34.5m).Tourism Australia's new advertising contract will start on July 1 for three years with an option for an additional two years.Reports in Australia put the size of the Tourism Australia's annual global advertising spend at as much as A$180m. However, according to Nielsen Media Research the UK spend was just \u00a34.5m in 2007 across all media.In 2006, Australian tourism minister Fran Bailey accused the British of lacking a sense of humour after the \"Where the bloody hell are you?\" campaign resulted in a flurry of complaints to the Advertising Standards Authority in the UK.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\". ", "tags": ["Advertising", "Media"], "title": "Tourism Australia reviews global ad account"},{"date": "2008-04-15T08:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's television advertisements are enticing. 'So where the bloody hell are you', the slogan reads, splashed on a backdrop of gorgeous beaches, tanned natives and blue skies. With the never-ending sunshine and an active outdoorsy lifestyle, it's hard to imagine you'll give healthcare a second thought. However, chances are you'll need medical help one day \u2013 and it's best to get to grips with it before, rather than when, you need it. Like Britain, Australia has both public and private health systems, but unlike Britain, it's not a matter of opting for one or the other; the two are more integrated.Australia's public health system is called Medicare. Brits can use the services as much as Australians because reciprocal agreements are in place between the countries. However, this does not apply to anyone who has moved to Australia on a retiree visa (Subclass Visa 410) since 1998. Once you're there, you can apply for a Medicare card, which health practitioners will ask for when you visit. The pharmaceutical benefits scheme (PBS) provides subsidised medications, and prescription costs are comparable with British charges. Residents contribute to funding Medicare via the Medicare levy. This charge (1.5% of taxable income) is calculated annually when lodging a tax return (compulsory in Australia). If you earn above AUS$50,000 as a single person, or $100,000 as a family, and you don't have private hospital insurance, there's a surcharge of 1%, aimed at encouraging those on higher incomes to go private. If you visit a public hospital, any treatment you receive is free. Medicare is usually charged directly for the cost of your consultation (known as bulk billing) \u2013 or you might have to pay up front and claim a portion of the cost back from Medicare. Typically, you'll pay a general practitioner about $50 and reclaim $30 from Medicare. Approximately 75% of services are bulk billed, and if you're cutting costs you can usually find a clinic that bulk bills all patients \u2013 although bear in mind appointments may be harder to get and waiting times longer. Children, pensioners and anyone receiving benefits are usually bulk billed. Referrals for blood tests, x-rays or specialists, however, incur extra costs.When it comes to speed and flexibility, Australian healthcare compares favourably with Britain. Karen Coleman moved to Sydney from England nine months ago and says she's been impressed so far. 'I recently needed to have pelvic ultrasounds. An appointment was made within a week and the results were available on the same day,' she explains. 'I had to pay, but Medicare refunded half the cost. I considered it money well spent. Had I been in England I would have waited weeks for the test itself and further weeks for the results, adding to the worry.'Medicare also offers a rebate if you choose to have procedures done privately, rather than join a public hospital waiting list for elective surgery. The decision to go private for a knee operation in Australia hinges on whether you can afford to pay half the bill, rather than the entire bill you'd have to pay in the United Kingdom if you opted for private surgery without insurance. In Australia, you can be registered at any number of GP clinics at the same time. Rebecca Tubman, who moved to Adelaide from Cumbria 18 months ago, finds that it's easier to see a doctor when she needs one. 'You can phone up and get an appointment on the same day,' she says.What the government does not do is cover ambulance services, except in Queensland and Tasmania. If you have to be taken to hospital by ambulance you're likely to receive a bill for as much as $600. You can buy 'ambulance insurance' \u2013 and peace of mind \u2013 for about $50 a year. Medicare provides only extremely limited dental subsidies, so make sure your teeth are in good condition before leaving. Access to allied health is also restricted under the public system. According to the private health insurance administration council, or PHIAC, about 44% of the Australian population now has private hospital insurance. There is a huge variety of policies on offer, ranging from basic hospital care to cover for dental work, allied health and even the gap between Medicare rebates and consultation costs. Waiting times for elective surgery are much shorter for private patients. In 2000 the government introduced a lifetime health cover, or LHC, to encourage people to go private younger. Anyone signing up under the age of 31 need only pay the regular insurance premium, while older people pay an extra 2% on their premium for each year over 30 they are \u2013 up to a maximum of 70% extra. This means a 40-year-old signing up for the first time will pay 20% more each year than someone of the same age who signed up before they were 31. The good news is that if you're a new migrant, regardless of your age, the extra charge will not apply if you sign up for private healthcare within one year of arriving.Particularly if you are a high-income earner, it's worth calling insurers to work out if taking out private insurance could save you money. Depending on your earnings, the Medicare levy surcharge could cost you more than an annual health premium, so you may be better off with private hospital cover. In addition, the government provides a 30% rebate on premiums, increasing for those over 65. If you have frequent health costs it may also be cost-effective, so make time in your first year to look into your options. That is, if you can drag yourself away from the beach. www.medicareaustralia.gov.auwww.privatehealth.com.au", "tags": ["Expat finance", "Healthcare industry", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Healthcare in Australia"},{"date": "2008-04-15T08:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's television advertisements are enticing. 'So where the bloody hell are you', the slogan reads, splashed on a backdrop of gorgeous beaches, tanned natives and blue skies. With the never-ending sunshine and an active outdoorsy lifestyle, it's hard to imagine you'll give healthcare a second thought. However, chances are you'll need medical help one day \u2013 and it's best to get to grips with it before, rather than when, you need it. Like Britain, Australia has both public and private health systems, but unlike Britain, it's not a matter of opting for one or the other; the two are more integrated.Australia's public health system is called Medicare. Brits can use the services as much as Australians because reciprocal agreements are in place between the countries. However, this does not apply to anyone who has moved to Australia on a retiree visa (Subclass Visa 410) since 1998. Once you're there, you can apply for a Medicare card, which health practitioners will ask for when you visit. The pharmaceutical benefits scheme (PBS) provides subsidised medications, and prescription costs are comparable with British charges. Residents contribute to funding Medicare via the Medicare levy. This charge (1.5% of taxable income) is calculated annually when lodging a tax return (compulsory in Australia). If you earn above AUS$50,000 as a single person, or $100,000 as a family, and you don't have private hospital insurance, there's a surcharge of 1%, aimed at encouraging those on higher incomes to go private. If you visit a public hospital, any treatment you receive is free. Medicare is usually charged directly for the cost of your consultation (known as bulk billing) \u2013 or you might have to pay up front and claim a portion of the cost back from Medicare. Typically, you'll pay a general practitioner about $50 and reclaim $30 from Medicare. Approximately 75% of services are bulk billed, and if you're cutting costs you can usually find a clinic that bulk bills all patients \u2013 although bear in mind appointments may be harder to get and waiting times longer. Children, pensioners and anyone receiving benefits are usually bulk billed. Referrals for blood tests, x-rays or specialists, however, incur extra costs.When it comes to speed and flexibility, Australian healthcare compares favourably with Britain. Karen Coleman moved to Sydney from England nine months ago and says she's been impressed so far. 'I recently needed to have pelvic ultrasounds. An appointment was made within a week and the results were available on the same day,' she explains. 'I had to pay, but Medicare refunded half the cost. I considered it money well spent. Had I been in England I would have waited weeks for the test itself and further weeks for the results, adding to the worry.'Medicare also offers a rebate if you choose to have procedures done privately, rather than join a public hospital waiting list for elective surgery. The decision to go private for a knee operation in Australia hinges on whether you can afford to pay half the bill, rather than the entire bill you'd have to pay in the United Kingdom if you opted for private surgery without insurance. In Australia, you can be registered at any number of GP clinics at the same time. Rebecca Tubman, who moved to Adelaide from Cumbria 18 months ago, finds that it's easier to see a doctor when she needs one. 'You can phone up and get an appointment on the same day,' she says.What the government does not do is cover ambulance services, except in Queensland and Tasmania. If you have to be taken to hospital by ambulance you're likely to receive a bill for as much as $600. You can buy 'ambulance insurance' \u2013 and peace of mind \u2013 for about $50 a year. Medicare provides only extremely limited dental subsidies, so make sure your teeth are in good condition before leaving. Access to allied health is also restricted under the public system. According to the private health insurance administration council, or PHIAC, about 44% of the Australian population now has private hospital insurance. There is a huge variety of policies on offer, ranging from basic hospital care to cover for dental work, allied health and even the gap between Medicare rebates and consultation costs. Waiting times for elective surgery are much shorter for private patients. In 2000 the government introduced a lifetime health cover, or LHC, to encourage people to go private younger. Anyone signing up under the age of 31 need only pay the regular insurance premium, while older people pay an extra 2% on their premium for each year over 30 they are \u2013 up to a maximum of 70% extra. This means a 40-year-old signing up for the first time will pay 20% more each year than someone of the same age who signed up before they were 31. The good news is that if you're a new migrant, regardless of your age, the extra charge will not apply if you sign up for private healthcare within one year of arriving.Particularly if you are a high-income earner, it's worth calling insurers to work out if taking out private insurance could save you money. Depending on your earnings, the Medicare levy surcharge could cost you more than an annual health premium, so you may be better off with private hospital cover. In addition, the government provides a 30% rebate on premiums, increasing for those over 65. If you have frequent health costs it may also be cost-effective, so make time in your first year to look into your options. That is, if you can drag yourself away from the beach. www.medicareaustralia.gov.auwww.privatehealth.com.au", "tags": ["Expat finance", "Healthcare industry", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Healthcare in Australia"},{"date": "2008-04-18T11:43:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The recently elected Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, is holding a brainstorming session this weekend to come up with future policy ideas.He has invited 1,000 of the country's \"best and brightest\" minds (which naturally includes Cate Blanchett) to the two-day summit. Rudd has expressed the hope that it will \"shake some new ideas loose from the tree\".The suggestions so far are a mixture of the serious and the bizzare. They include: - Send more people up to Darwin to take advantage of the higher rainfall there- A euthanasia kit for the frail- Dump the Queen as head of state- A ban on the sale of alcohol to the country's indigenous population- Raise the smoking age to 40- Free crayfish meals for everyone - Jukeboxes for nursing homesWe'd like to know how you would make Australia better? Throw out all the poms is not an acceptable answer.", "tags": ["World news", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How would you improve  Australia?"},{"date": "2008-04-15T08:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's television advertisements are enticing. 'So where the bloody hell are you', the slogan reads, splashed on a backdrop of gorgeous beaches, tanned natives and blue skies. With the never-ending sunshine and an active outdoorsy lifestyle, it's hard to imagine you'll give healthcare a second thought. However, chances are you'll need medical help one day \u2013 and it's best to get to grips with it before, rather than when, you need it. Like Britain, Australia has both public and private health systems, but unlike Britain, it's not a matter of opting for one or the other; the two are more integrated.Australia's public health system is called Medicare. Brits can use the services as much as Australians because reciprocal agreements are in place between the countries. However, this does not apply to anyone who has moved to Australia on a retiree visa (Subclass Visa 410) since 1998. Once you're there, you can apply for a Medicare card, which health practitioners will ask for when you visit. The pharmaceutical benefits scheme (PBS) provides subsidised medications, and prescription costs are comparable with British charges. Residents contribute to funding Medicare via the Medicare levy. This charge (1.5% of taxable income) is calculated annually when lodging a tax return (compulsory in Australia). If you earn above AUS$50,000 as a single person, or $100,000 as a family, and you don't have private hospital insurance, there's a surcharge of 1%, aimed at encouraging those on higher incomes to go private. If you visit a public hospital, any treatment you receive is free. Medicare is usually charged directly for the cost of your consultation (known as bulk billing) \u2013 or you might have to pay up front and claim a portion of the cost back from Medicare. Typically, you'll pay a general practitioner about $50 and reclaim $30 from Medicare. Approximately 75% of services are bulk billed, and if you're cutting costs you can usually find a clinic that bulk bills all patients \u2013 although bear in mind appointments may be harder to get and waiting times longer. Children, pensioners and anyone receiving benefits are usually bulk billed. Referrals for blood tests, x-rays or specialists, however, incur extra costs.When it comes to speed and flexibility, Australian healthcare compares favourably with Britain. Karen Coleman moved to Sydney from England nine months ago and says she's been impressed so far. 'I recently needed to have pelvic ultrasounds. An appointment was made within a week and the results were available on the same day,' she explains. 'I had to pay, but Medicare refunded half the cost. I considered it money well spent. Had I been in England I would have waited weeks for the test itself and further weeks for the results, adding to the worry.'Medicare also offers a rebate if you choose to have procedures done privately, rather than join a public hospital waiting list for elective surgery. The decision to go private for a knee operation in Australia hinges on whether you can afford to pay half the bill, rather than the entire bill you'd have to pay in the United Kingdom if you opted for private surgery without insurance. In Australia, you can be registered at any number of GP clinics at the same time. Rebecca Tubman, who moved to Adelaide from Cumbria 18 months ago, finds that it's easier to see a doctor when she needs one. 'You can phone up and get an appointment on the same day,' she says.What the government does not do is cover ambulance services, except in Queensland and Tasmania. If you have to be taken to hospital by ambulance you're likely to receive a bill for as much as $600. You can buy 'ambulance insurance' \u2013 and peace of mind \u2013 for about $50 a year. Medicare provides only extremely limited dental subsidies, so make sure your teeth are in good condition before leaving. Access to allied health is also restricted under the public system. According to the private health insurance administration council, or PHIAC, about 44% of the Australian population now has private hospital insurance. There is a huge variety of policies on offer, ranging from basic hospital care to cover for dental work, allied health and even the gap between Medicare rebates and consultation costs. Waiting times for elective surgery are much shorter for private patients. In 2000 the government introduced a lifetime health cover, or LHC, to encourage people to go private younger. Anyone signing up under the age of 31 need only pay the regular insurance premium, while older people pay an extra 2% on their premium for each year over 30 they are \u2013 up to a maximum of 70% extra. This means a 40-year-old signing up for the first time will pay 20% more each year than someone of the same age who signed up before they were 31. The good news is that if you're a new migrant, regardless of your age, the extra charge will not apply if you sign up for private healthcare within one year of arriving.Particularly if you are a high-income earner, it's worth calling insurers to work out if taking out private insurance could save you money. Depending on your earnings, the Medicare levy surcharge could cost you more than an annual health premium, so you may be better off with private hospital cover. In addition, the government provides a 30% rebate on premiums, increasing for those over 65. If you have frequent health costs it may also be cost-effective, so make time in your first year to look into your options. That is, if you can drag yourself away from the beach. www.medicareaustralia.gov.auwww.privatehealth.com.au", "tags": ["Expat finance", "Healthcare industry", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Healthcare in Australia"},{"date": "2008-04-18T11:43:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The recently elected Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, is holding a brainstorming session this weekend to come up with future policy ideas.He has invited 1,000 of the country's \"best and brightest\" minds (which naturally includes Cate Blanchett) to the two-day summit. Rudd has expressed the hope that it will \"shake some new ideas loose from the tree\".The suggestions so far are a mixture of the serious and the bizzare. They include: - Send more people up to Darwin to take advantage of the higher rainfall there- A euthanasia kit for the frail- Dump the Queen as head of state- A ban on the sale of alcohol to the country's indigenous population- Raise the smoking age to 40- Free crayfish meals for everyone - Jukeboxes for nursing homesWe'd like to know how you would make Australia better? Throw out all the poms is not an acceptable answer.", "tags": ["World news", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How would you improve  Australia?"},{"date": "2008-06-28T23:01:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australian soldiers who served in Iraq were given a rousing reception by about 10,000 people yesterday at a 'welcome home' parade in Brisbane that marked the country's withdrawal from combat operations.Well-wishers waved flags and banners and cheered as some 700 troops, many only recently returned from the war zone, marched through the streets in desert camouflage uniforms with an army band playing 'Waltzing Matilda'. The Prime Minister, Kevin Rudd, was among a host of dignitaries who paid tribute at the ceremony, described as Australia's biggest military homecoming parade since the Second World War.'Today the Australian nation says \"thank you\" to you, the men and women of the Australian Defence Force, for your service in Iraq,' said Rudd as he took the official salute outside City Hall. 'Freedom is not for free. Freedom comes at a price, and you are our front line in the defence of our freedom.' Parents, partners, children and other relatives of those who 'answered the nation's call' were thanked for supporting the soldiers.Private Dean Smith said he was happy to be home and was proud of having served in Iraq. 'It's really great to come home to such an amazing welcome from the public,' he said, waving to his family.Major John Papalitsas, commanding officer of the Australian Counter Insurgency Detachments, returned home last week after spending the past seven months in Iraq. 'I think it's very difficult for people to understand exactly how complex the nature of operations in Iraq are,' he said. 'It's a spider's web of complexity and I don't think people really understand what a good job the coalition forces are doing.' His mother, Rosemary, said she was relieved to have her son safely home. 'I don't think I can really hide my pride,' she said.Troops were deployed to Iraq by the former Liberal Prime Minister, John Howard, a strong supporter of the 2003 invasion. He has been criticised by Rudd, his Labor successor, for backing the war 'without accurate information or full assessment of the consequences'. Rudd made it a key election promise to withdraw combat troops as quickly as possible, though 300 will stay in Baghdad to help guard Australian diplomats and a further 500 will remain in the region.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Iraq", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Troops welcomed home as Australia quits Iraq"},{"date": "2008-04-15T08:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's television advertisements are enticing. 'So where the bloody hell are you', the slogan reads, splashed on a backdrop of gorgeous beaches, tanned natives and blue skies. With the never-ending sunshine and an active outdoorsy lifestyle, it's hard to imagine you'll give healthcare a second thought. However, chances are you'll need medical help one day \u2013 and it's best to get to grips with it before, rather than when, you need it. Like Britain, Australia has both public and private health systems, but unlike Britain, it's not a matter of opting for one or the other; the two are more integrated.Australia's public health system is called Medicare. Brits can use the services as much as Australians because reciprocal agreements are in place between the countries. However, this does not apply to anyone who has moved to Australia on a retiree visa (Subclass Visa 410) since 1998. Once you're there, you can apply for a Medicare card, which health practitioners will ask for when you visit. The pharmaceutical benefits scheme (PBS) provides subsidised medications, and prescription costs are comparable with British charges. Residents contribute to funding Medicare via the Medicare levy. This charge (1.5% of taxable income) is calculated annually when lodging a tax return (compulsory in Australia). If you earn above AUS$50,000 as a single person, or $100,000 as a family, and you don't have private hospital insurance, there's a surcharge of 1%, aimed at encouraging those on higher incomes to go private. If you visit a public hospital, any treatment you receive is free. Medicare is usually charged directly for the cost of your consultation (known as bulk billing) \u2013 or you might have to pay up front and claim a portion of the cost back from Medicare. Typically, you'll pay a general practitioner about $50 and reclaim $30 from Medicare. Approximately 75% of services are bulk billed, and if you're cutting costs you can usually find a clinic that bulk bills all patients \u2013 although bear in mind appointments may be harder to get and waiting times longer. Children, pensioners and anyone receiving benefits are usually bulk billed. Referrals for blood tests, x-rays or specialists, however, incur extra costs.When it comes to speed and flexibility, Australian healthcare compares favourably with Britain. Karen Coleman moved to Sydney from England nine months ago and says she's been impressed so far. 'I recently needed to have pelvic ultrasounds. An appointment was made within a week and the results were available on the same day,' she explains. 'I had to pay, but Medicare refunded half the cost. I considered it money well spent. Had I been in England I would have waited weeks for the test itself and further weeks for the results, adding to the worry.'Medicare also offers a rebate if you choose to have procedures done privately, rather than join a public hospital waiting list for elective surgery. The decision to go private for a knee operation in Australia hinges on whether you can afford to pay half the bill, rather than the entire bill you'd have to pay in the United Kingdom if you opted for private surgery without insurance. In Australia, you can be registered at any number of GP clinics at the same time. Rebecca Tubman, who moved to Adelaide from Cumbria 18 months ago, finds that it's easier to see a doctor when she needs one. 'You can phone up and get an appointment on the same day,' she says.What the government does not do is cover ambulance services, except in Queensland and Tasmania. If you have to be taken to hospital by ambulance you're likely to receive a bill for as much as $600. You can buy 'ambulance insurance' \u2013 and peace of mind \u2013 for about $50 a year. Medicare provides only extremely limited dental subsidies, so make sure your teeth are in good condition before leaving. Access to allied health is also restricted under the public system. According to the private health insurance administration council, or PHIAC, about 44% of the Australian population now has private hospital insurance. There is a huge variety of policies on offer, ranging from basic hospital care to cover for dental work, allied health and even the gap between Medicare rebates and consultation costs. Waiting times for elective surgery are much shorter for private patients. In 2000 the government introduced a lifetime health cover, or LHC, to encourage people to go private younger. Anyone signing up under the age of 31 need only pay the regular insurance premium, while older people pay an extra 2% on their premium for each year over 30 they are \u2013 up to a maximum of 70% extra. This means a 40-year-old signing up for the first time will pay 20% more each year than someone of the same age who signed up before they were 31. The good news is that if you're a new migrant, regardless of your age, the extra charge will not apply if you sign up for private healthcare within one year of arriving.Particularly if you are a high-income earner, it's worth calling insurers to work out if taking out private insurance could save you money. Depending on your earnings, the Medicare levy surcharge could cost you more than an annual health premium, so you may be better off with private hospital cover. In addition, the government provides a 30% rebate on premiums, increasing for those over 65. If you have frequent health costs it may also be cost-effective, so make time in your first year to look into your options. That is, if you can drag yourself away from the beach. www.medicareaustralia.gov.auwww.privatehealth.com.au", "tags": ["Expat finance", "Healthcare industry", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Healthcare in Australia"},{"date": "2008-04-18T11:43:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The recently elected Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, is holding a brainstorming session this weekend to come up with future policy ideas.He has invited 1,000 of the country's \"best and brightest\" minds (which naturally includes Cate Blanchett) to the two-day summit. Rudd has expressed the hope that it will \"shake some new ideas loose from the tree\".The suggestions so far are a mixture of the serious and the bizzare. They include: - Send more people up to Darwin to take advantage of the higher rainfall there- A euthanasia kit for the frail- Dump the Queen as head of state- A ban on the sale of alcohol to the country's indigenous population- Raise the smoking age to 40- Free crayfish meals for everyone - Jukeboxes for nursing homesWe'd like to know how you would make Australia better? Throw out all the poms is not an acceptable answer.", "tags": ["World news", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How would you improve  Australia?"},{"date": "2008-06-28T23:01:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australian soldiers who served in Iraq were given a rousing reception by about 10,000 people yesterday at a 'welcome home' parade in Brisbane that marked the country's withdrawal from combat operations.Well-wishers waved flags and banners and cheered as some 700 troops, many only recently returned from the war zone, marched through the streets in desert camouflage uniforms with an army band playing 'Waltzing Matilda'. The Prime Minister, Kevin Rudd, was among a host of dignitaries who paid tribute at the ceremony, described as Australia's biggest military homecoming parade since the Second World War.'Today the Australian nation says \"thank you\" to you, the men and women of the Australian Defence Force, for your service in Iraq,' said Rudd as he took the official salute outside City Hall. 'Freedom is not for free. Freedom comes at a price, and you are our front line in the defence of our freedom.' Parents, partners, children and other relatives of those who 'answered the nation's call' were thanked for supporting the soldiers.Private Dean Smith said he was happy to be home and was proud of having served in Iraq. 'It's really great to come home to such an amazing welcome from the public,' he said, waving to his family.Major John Papalitsas, commanding officer of the Australian Counter Insurgency Detachments, returned home last week after spending the past seven months in Iraq. 'I think it's very difficult for people to understand exactly how complex the nature of operations in Iraq are,' he said. 'It's a spider's web of complexity and I don't think people really understand what a good job the coalition forces are doing.' His mother, Rosemary, said she was relieved to have her son safely home. 'I don't think I can really hide my pride,' she said.Troops were deployed to Iraq by the former Liberal Prime Minister, John Howard, a strong supporter of the 2003 invasion. He has been criticised by Rudd, his Labor successor, for backing the war 'without accurate information or full assessment of the consequences'. Rudd made it a key election promise to withdraw combat troops as quickly as possible, though 300 will stay in Baghdad to help guard Australian diplomats and a further 500 will remain in the region.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Iraq", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Troops welcomed home as Australia quits Iraq"},{"date": "2008-06-02T08:12:23Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australian troops returning home from combat operations in southern Iraq will be welcomed with an official parade, it was announced today.The country's prime minister, Kevin Rudd, will personally greet the returning soldiers at a ceremony on June 28, when the streets of Brisbane are expected to be lined with well-wishers. The pullout, announced yesterday, fulfils an election promise made by the Labor government to end the Australian military's combat role in Iraq.Soldiers marked the end of their deployment by lowering the Australian flag that had flown over Camp Terendak in the southern Iraqi city of Talil.The defence minister, Joel Fitzgibbon, said the withdrawal \"closed anotherchapter in a strong and proud Australian military history\". The 550 members of the Overwatch Battle Group, who have been operating in al-Muthanna and Dhi Qar provinces, should be proud of what they had achieved, he added.Australian troops had protected engineers carrying out reconstruction work, contributed to the training of 33,000 Iraqi soldiers and police and mentored Iraqis involved in counterinsurgency operations, he said.\"Our soldiers have worked tirelessly to ensure that local people in southern Iraq have the best possible chance to move on from their suffering under Saddam's regime.\"He also described the decision to pull the troops out of Iraq as overdue, saying the country's military had become overstretched by its commitments in East Timor, Afghanistan and Iraq.The Australians are being replaced by Iraqi and US soldiers.Major General Bill Crews, the national head of the Returned Services League, said he expected a huge turnout to welcome the troops home.\"I believe we're able, or most of us are able, to separate the politics of the deployment from the need to wholeheartedly support the service men and women who undertook this role on our behalf,\" he said.Australia, a staunch US ally, was one of the first countries to commit troops to the Iraq war five years ago.Rudd has said that the deployment made Australia more of a target for terrorism, but his predecessor, John Howard, has defended his decision. \"I firmly believe it was the right thing to have done,\" he told the Sydney Morning Herald. \"If I had been returned at the last election we would not have been bringing them home, we would have been looking at transitioning them from their soon-to-be terminated role to a training role.\"Some 300 troops will stay in Baghdad to help guard Australian diplomats. A further 500 will remain in the region, including 200 sailors aboard the frigate HMAS Stuart in the Persian Gulf.No Australian soldiers were killed in combat in Iraq, although six were wounded by roadside bombs.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Iraq", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia ends combat operations in Iraq"},{"date": "2008-04-15T08:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's television advertisements are enticing. 'So where the bloody hell are you', the slogan reads, splashed on a backdrop of gorgeous beaches, tanned natives and blue skies. With the never-ending sunshine and an active outdoorsy lifestyle, it's hard to imagine you'll give healthcare a second thought. However, chances are you'll need medical help one day \u2013 and it's best to get to grips with it before, rather than when, you need it. Like Britain, Australia has both public and private health systems, but unlike Britain, it's not a matter of opting for one or the other; the two are more integrated.Australia's public health system is called Medicare. Brits can use the services as much as Australians because reciprocal agreements are in place between the countries. However, this does not apply to anyone who has moved to Australia on a retiree visa (Subclass Visa 410) since 1998. Once you're there, you can apply for a Medicare card, which health practitioners will ask for when you visit. The pharmaceutical benefits scheme (PBS) provides subsidised medications, and prescription costs are comparable with British charges. Residents contribute to funding Medicare via the Medicare levy. This charge (1.5% of taxable income) is calculated annually when lodging a tax return (compulsory in Australia). If you earn above AUS$50,000 as a single person, or $100,000 as a family, and you don't have private hospital insurance, there's a surcharge of 1%, aimed at encouraging those on higher incomes to go private. If you visit a public hospital, any treatment you receive is free. Medicare is usually charged directly for the cost of your consultation (known as bulk billing) \u2013 or you might have to pay up front and claim a portion of the cost back from Medicare. Typically, you'll pay a general practitioner about $50 and reclaim $30 from Medicare. Approximately 75% of services are bulk billed, and if you're cutting costs you can usually find a clinic that bulk bills all patients \u2013 although bear in mind appointments may be harder to get and waiting times longer. Children, pensioners and anyone receiving benefits are usually bulk billed. Referrals for blood tests, x-rays or specialists, however, incur extra costs.When it comes to speed and flexibility, Australian healthcare compares favourably with Britain. Karen Coleman moved to Sydney from England nine months ago and says she's been impressed so far. 'I recently needed to have pelvic ultrasounds. An appointment was made within a week and the results were available on the same day,' she explains. 'I had to pay, but Medicare refunded half the cost. I considered it money well spent. Had I been in England I would have waited weeks for the test itself and further weeks for the results, adding to the worry.'Medicare also offers a rebate if you choose to have procedures done privately, rather than join a public hospital waiting list for elective surgery. The decision to go private for a knee operation in Australia hinges on whether you can afford to pay half the bill, rather than the entire bill you'd have to pay in the United Kingdom if you opted for private surgery without insurance. In Australia, you can be registered at any number of GP clinics at the same time. Rebecca Tubman, who moved to Adelaide from Cumbria 18 months ago, finds that it's easier to see a doctor when she needs one. 'You can phone up and get an appointment on the same day,' she says.What the government does not do is cover ambulance services, except in Queensland and Tasmania. If you have to be taken to hospital by ambulance you're likely to receive a bill for as much as $600. You can buy 'ambulance insurance' \u2013 and peace of mind \u2013 for about $50 a year. Medicare provides only extremely limited dental subsidies, so make sure your teeth are in good condition before leaving. Access to allied health is also restricted under the public system. According to the private health insurance administration council, or PHIAC, about 44% of the Australian population now has private hospital insurance. There is a huge variety of policies on offer, ranging from basic hospital care to cover for dental work, allied health and even the gap between Medicare rebates and consultation costs. Waiting times for elective surgery are much shorter for private patients. In 2000 the government introduced a lifetime health cover, or LHC, to encourage people to go private younger. Anyone signing up under the age of 31 need only pay the regular insurance premium, while older people pay an extra 2% on their premium for each year over 30 they are \u2013 up to a maximum of 70% extra. This means a 40-year-old signing up for the first time will pay 20% more each year than someone of the same age who signed up before they were 31. The good news is that if you're a new migrant, regardless of your age, the extra charge will not apply if you sign up for private healthcare within one year of arriving.Particularly if you are a high-income earner, it's worth calling insurers to work out if taking out private insurance could save you money. Depending on your earnings, the Medicare levy surcharge could cost you more than an annual health premium, so you may be better off with private hospital cover. In addition, the government provides a 30% rebate on premiums, increasing for those over 65. If you have frequent health costs it may also be cost-effective, so make time in your first year to look into your options. That is, if you can drag yourself away from the beach. www.medicareaustralia.gov.auwww.privatehealth.com.au", "tags": ["Expat finance", "Healthcare industry", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Healthcare in Australia"},{"date": "2008-04-18T11:43:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The recently elected Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, is holding a brainstorming session this weekend to come up with future policy ideas.He has invited 1,000 of the country's \"best and brightest\" minds (which naturally includes Cate Blanchett) to the two-day summit. Rudd has expressed the hope that it will \"shake some new ideas loose from the tree\".The suggestions so far are a mixture of the serious and the bizzare. They include: - Send more people up to Darwin to take advantage of the higher rainfall there- A euthanasia kit for the frail- Dump the Queen as head of state- A ban on the sale of alcohol to the country's indigenous population- Raise the smoking age to 40- Free crayfish meals for everyone - Jukeboxes for nursing homesWe'd like to know how you would make Australia better? Throw out all the poms is not an acceptable answer.", "tags": ["World news", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How would you improve  Australia?"},{"date": "2008-06-28T23:01:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australian soldiers who served in Iraq were given a rousing reception by about 10,000 people yesterday at a 'welcome home' parade in Brisbane that marked the country's withdrawal from combat operations.Well-wishers waved flags and banners and cheered as some 700 troops, many only recently returned from the war zone, marched through the streets in desert camouflage uniforms with an army band playing 'Waltzing Matilda'. The Prime Minister, Kevin Rudd, was among a host of dignitaries who paid tribute at the ceremony, described as Australia's biggest military homecoming parade since the Second World War.'Today the Australian nation says \"thank you\" to you, the men and women of the Australian Defence Force, for your service in Iraq,' said Rudd as he took the official salute outside City Hall. 'Freedom is not for free. Freedom comes at a price, and you are our front line in the defence of our freedom.' Parents, partners, children and other relatives of those who 'answered the nation's call' were thanked for supporting the soldiers.Private Dean Smith said he was happy to be home and was proud of having served in Iraq. 'It's really great to come home to such an amazing welcome from the public,' he said, waving to his family.Major John Papalitsas, commanding officer of the Australian Counter Insurgency Detachments, returned home last week after spending the past seven months in Iraq. 'I think it's very difficult for people to understand exactly how complex the nature of operations in Iraq are,' he said. 'It's a spider's web of complexity and I don't think people really understand what a good job the coalition forces are doing.' His mother, Rosemary, said she was relieved to have her son safely home. 'I don't think I can really hide my pride,' she said.Troops were deployed to Iraq by the former Liberal Prime Minister, John Howard, a strong supporter of the 2003 invasion. He has been criticised by Rudd, his Labor successor, for backing the war 'without accurate information or full assessment of the consequences'. Rudd made it a key election promise to withdraw combat troops as quickly as possible, though 300 will stay in Baghdad to help guard Australian diplomats and a further 500 will remain in the region.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Iraq", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Troops welcomed home as Australia quits Iraq"},{"date": "2008-06-02T08:12:23Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australian troops returning home from combat operations in southern Iraq will be welcomed with an official parade, it was announced today.The country's prime minister, Kevin Rudd, will personally greet the returning soldiers at a ceremony on June 28, when the streets of Brisbane are expected to be lined with well-wishers. The pullout, announced yesterday, fulfils an election promise made by the Labor government to end the Australian military's combat role in Iraq.Soldiers marked the end of their deployment by lowering the Australian flag that had flown over Camp Terendak in the southern Iraqi city of Talil.The defence minister, Joel Fitzgibbon, said the withdrawal \"closed anotherchapter in a strong and proud Australian military history\". The 550 members of the Overwatch Battle Group, who have been operating in al-Muthanna and Dhi Qar provinces, should be proud of what they had achieved, he added.Australian troops had protected engineers carrying out reconstruction work, contributed to the training of 33,000 Iraqi soldiers and police and mentored Iraqis involved in counterinsurgency operations, he said.\"Our soldiers have worked tirelessly to ensure that local people in southern Iraq have the best possible chance to move on from their suffering under Saddam's regime.\"He also described the decision to pull the troops out of Iraq as overdue, saying the country's military had become overstretched by its commitments in East Timor, Afghanistan and Iraq.The Australians are being replaced by Iraqi and US soldiers.Major General Bill Crews, the national head of the Returned Services League, said he expected a huge turnout to welcome the troops home.\"I believe we're able, or most of us are able, to separate the politics of the deployment from the need to wholeheartedly support the service men and women who undertook this role on our behalf,\" he said.Australia, a staunch US ally, was one of the first countries to commit troops to the Iraq war five years ago.Rudd has said that the deployment made Australia more of a target for terrorism, but his predecessor, John Howard, has defended his decision. \"I firmly believe it was the right thing to have done,\" he told the Sydney Morning Herald. \"If I had been returned at the last election we would not have been bringing them home, we would have been looking at transitioning them from their soon-to-be terminated role to a training role.\"Some 300 troops will stay in Baghdad to help guard Australian diplomats. A further 500 will remain in the region, including 200 sailors aboard the frigate HMAS Stuart in the Persian Gulf.No Australian soldiers were killed in combat in Iraq, although six were wounded by roadside bombs.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Iraq", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia ends combat operations in Iraq"},{"date": "2008-05-19T09:04:28Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Claims by a leading researcher that cancer deaths in a small town in Queensland, Australia, are 10 times higher than the state average owing to the secret testing of Agent Orange there more than 40 years ago are to be investigated by the authorities.Australian military scientists sprayed the toxic herbicide on rainforest near Innisfail during defoliant testing in the early years of the Vietnam war, it is alleged. The jungle began dying and has never recovered, according to local people. The site is near a river which supplies water for the town in the far north of the country and researchers believe the spraying may be responsible for cancer rates in the area being 10 times the state average and four times the national average.The Innisfail claims were made by the researcher Jean Williams, who has been awarded the Order of Australia medal for her work on the effects of chemicals on Vietnam war veterans. She said she found reports of the secret tests in Australian War Memorial museum archives.\"These tests carried out between 1964 and 1966 were the first tests of Agent Orange,\" she told Fairfax Media.Williams said one of the files on the testing was marked \"considered sensitive\" and showed that the chemicals 2,4-D, Diquat, Tordon and dimethylsulphoxide had been sprayed on the rainforest.\"It was considered sensitive because they were mixing together all the bad chemicals, which just made them worse,\" she said. \"Those chemicals stay in the soil for years and every time there is a storm they are stirred up and go into the water supply.\"Williams also claimed that a file which could prove that wider testing took place had gone missing from the archives.A former soldier, Ted Bosworth, has backed up the claims, saying two scientists he drove to the site in the 1960s were interested in the effect the chemical cocktail had on rubber vine, which is also found in Vietnam.\"They sprayed the trees by hand and then in the next couple of weeks I took them back up and they put ladders up against the trees and took photos of them as the foliage was dying,\" he said. \"They called it some other funny name - I hadn't heard of Agent Orange then.\"Agent Orange was sprayed by the Australian and the US military during the Vietnam war to defoliate jungle where North Vietnamese troops were positioned. The cocktail of toxic chemicals in Agent Orange has been linked to cancer, birth defects and other health problems.Yesterday the local mayor, Bill Shannon, called on the Australian Defence Force to investigate Williams's claims. He said the half-acre site remains deforested, and though the town's water supply showed no evidence of the chemicals, local people had long been concerned about cancer rates in the area. \"I'd like to know exactly what did happen and the extent of it. We don't want a cover-up,\" he said. Queensland's premier, Anna Bligh, said she was disturbed by the claims. \"Any concerns these residents have can and will be investigated thoroughly,\" she said in Brisbane yesterday. However, the Queensland health department said that the incidence of cancer in Innisfail is no higher than in other parts of the state.\u00b7 This article was amended on Tuesday May 20 2008. Queensland's premier is Anna Bligh, not Blyth. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia cancer deaths linked to Agent Orange"},{"date": "2008-04-15T08:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's television advertisements are enticing. 'So where the bloody hell are you', the slogan reads, splashed on a backdrop of gorgeous beaches, tanned natives and blue skies. With the never-ending sunshine and an active outdoorsy lifestyle, it's hard to imagine you'll give healthcare a second thought. However, chances are you'll need medical help one day \u2013 and it's best to get to grips with it before, rather than when, you need it. Like Britain, Australia has both public and private health systems, but unlike Britain, it's not a matter of opting for one or the other; the two are more integrated.Australia's public health system is called Medicare. Brits can use the services as much as Australians because reciprocal agreements are in place between the countries. However, this does not apply to anyone who has moved to Australia on a retiree visa (Subclass Visa 410) since 1998. Once you're there, you can apply for a Medicare card, which health practitioners will ask for when you visit. The pharmaceutical benefits scheme (PBS) provides subsidised medications, and prescription costs are comparable with British charges. Residents contribute to funding Medicare via the Medicare levy. This charge (1.5% of taxable income) is calculated annually when lodging a tax return (compulsory in Australia). If you earn above AUS$50,000 as a single person, or $100,000 as a family, and you don't have private hospital insurance, there's a surcharge of 1%, aimed at encouraging those on higher incomes to go private. If you visit a public hospital, any treatment you receive is free. Medicare is usually charged directly for the cost of your consultation (known as bulk billing) \u2013 or you might have to pay up front and claim a portion of the cost back from Medicare. Typically, you'll pay a general practitioner about $50 and reclaim $30 from Medicare. Approximately 75% of services are bulk billed, and if you're cutting costs you can usually find a clinic that bulk bills all patients \u2013 although bear in mind appointments may be harder to get and waiting times longer. Children, pensioners and anyone receiving benefits are usually bulk billed. Referrals for blood tests, x-rays or specialists, however, incur extra costs.When it comes to speed and flexibility, Australian healthcare compares favourably with Britain. Karen Coleman moved to Sydney from England nine months ago and says she's been impressed so far. 'I recently needed to have pelvic ultrasounds. An appointment was made within a week and the results were available on the same day,' she explains. 'I had to pay, but Medicare refunded half the cost. I considered it money well spent. Had I been in England I would have waited weeks for the test itself and further weeks for the results, adding to the worry.'Medicare also offers a rebate if you choose to have procedures done privately, rather than join a public hospital waiting list for elective surgery. The decision to go private for a knee operation in Australia hinges on whether you can afford to pay half the bill, rather than the entire bill you'd have to pay in the United Kingdom if you opted for private surgery without insurance. In Australia, you can be registered at any number of GP clinics at the same time. Rebecca Tubman, who moved to Adelaide from Cumbria 18 months ago, finds that it's easier to see a doctor when she needs one. 'You can phone up and get an appointment on the same day,' she says.What the government does not do is cover ambulance services, except in Queensland and Tasmania. If you have to be taken to hospital by ambulance you're likely to receive a bill for as much as $600. You can buy 'ambulance insurance' \u2013 and peace of mind \u2013 for about $50 a year. Medicare provides only extremely limited dental subsidies, so make sure your teeth are in good condition before leaving. Access to allied health is also restricted under the public system. According to the private health insurance administration council, or PHIAC, about 44% of the Australian population now has private hospital insurance. There is a huge variety of policies on offer, ranging from basic hospital care to cover for dental work, allied health and even the gap between Medicare rebates and consultation costs. Waiting times for elective surgery are much shorter for private patients. In 2000 the government introduced a lifetime health cover, or LHC, to encourage people to go private younger. Anyone signing up under the age of 31 need only pay the regular insurance premium, while older people pay an extra 2% on their premium for each year over 30 they are \u2013 up to a maximum of 70% extra. This means a 40-year-old signing up for the first time will pay 20% more each year than someone of the same age who signed up before they were 31. The good news is that if you're a new migrant, regardless of your age, the extra charge will not apply if you sign up for private healthcare within one year of arriving.Particularly if you are a high-income earner, it's worth calling insurers to work out if taking out private insurance could save you money. Depending on your earnings, the Medicare levy surcharge could cost you more than an annual health premium, so you may be better off with private hospital cover. In addition, the government provides a 30% rebate on premiums, increasing for those over 65. If you have frequent health costs it may also be cost-effective, so make time in your first year to look into your options. That is, if you can drag yourself away from the beach. www.medicareaustralia.gov.auwww.privatehealth.com.au", "tags": ["Expat finance", "Healthcare industry", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Healthcare in Australia"},{"date": "2008-04-18T11:43:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The recently elected Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, is holding a brainstorming session this weekend to come up with future policy ideas.He has invited 1,000 of the country's \"best and brightest\" minds (which naturally includes Cate Blanchett) to the two-day summit. Rudd has expressed the hope that it will \"shake some new ideas loose from the tree\".The suggestions so far are a mixture of the serious and the bizzare. They include: - Send more people up to Darwin to take advantage of the higher rainfall there- A euthanasia kit for the frail- Dump the Queen as head of state- A ban on the sale of alcohol to the country's indigenous population- Raise the smoking age to 40- Free crayfish meals for everyone - Jukeboxes for nursing homesWe'd like to know how you would make Australia better? Throw out all the poms is not an acceptable answer.", "tags": ["World news", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How would you improve  Australia?"},{"date": "2008-06-28T23:01:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australian soldiers who served in Iraq were given a rousing reception by about 10,000 people yesterday at a 'welcome home' parade in Brisbane that marked the country's withdrawal from combat operations.Well-wishers waved flags and banners and cheered as some 700 troops, many only recently returned from the war zone, marched through the streets in desert camouflage uniforms with an army band playing 'Waltzing Matilda'. The Prime Minister, Kevin Rudd, was among a host of dignitaries who paid tribute at the ceremony, described as Australia's biggest military homecoming parade since the Second World War.'Today the Australian nation says \"thank you\" to you, the men and women of the Australian Defence Force, for your service in Iraq,' said Rudd as he took the official salute outside City Hall. 'Freedom is not for free. Freedom comes at a price, and you are our front line in the defence of our freedom.' Parents, partners, children and other relatives of those who 'answered the nation's call' were thanked for supporting the soldiers.Private Dean Smith said he was happy to be home and was proud of having served in Iraq. 'It's really great to come home to such an amazing welcome from the public,' he said, waving to his family.Major John Papalitsas, commanding officer of the Australian Counter Insurgency Detachments, returned home last week after spending the past seven months in Iraq. 'I think it's very difficult for people to understand exactly how complex the nature of operations in Iraq are,' he said. 'It's a spider's web of complexity and I don't think people really understand what a good job the coalition forces are doing.' His mother, Rosemary, said she was relieved to have her son safely home. 'I don't think I can really hide my pride,' she said.Troops were deployed to Iraq by the former Liberal Prime Minister, John Howard, a strong supporter of the 2003 invasion. He has been criticised by Rudd, his Labor successor, for backing the war 'without accurate information or full assessment of the consequences'. Rudd made it a key election promise to withdraw combat troops as quickly as possible, though 300 will stay in Baghdad to help guard Australian diplomats and a further 500 will remain in the region.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Iraq", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Troops welcomed home as Australia quits Iraq"},{"date": "2008-06-02T08:12:23Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australian troops returning home from combat operations in southern Iraq will be welcomed with an official parade, it was announced today.The country's prime minister, Kevin Rudd, will personally greet the returning soldiers at a ceremony on June 28, when the streets of Brisbane are expected to be lined with well-wishers. The pullout, announced yesterday, fulfils an election promise made by the Labor government to end the Australian military's combat role in Iraq.Soldiers marked the end of their deployment by lowering the Australian flag that had flown over Camp Terendak in the southern Iraqi city of Talil.The defence minister, Joel Fitzgibbon, said the withdrawal \"closed anotherchapter in a strong and proud Australian military history\". The 550 members of the Overwatch Battle Group, who have been operating in al-Muthanna and Dhi Qar provinces, should be proud of what they had achieved, he added.Australian troops had protected engineers carrying out reconstruction work, contributed to the training of 33,000 Iraqi soldiers and police and mentored Iraqis involved in counterinsurgency operations, he said.\"Our soldiers have worked tirelessly to ensure that local people in southern Iraq have the best possible chance to move on from their suffering under Saddam's regime.\"He also described the decision to pull the troops out of Iraq as overdue, saying the country's military had become overstretched by its commitments in East Timor, Afghanistan and Iraq.The Australians are being replaced by Iraqi and US soldiers.Major General Bill Crews, the national head of the Returned Services League, said he expected a huge turnout to welcome the troops home.\"I believe we're able, or most of us are able, to separate the politics of the deployment from the need to wholeheartedly support the service men and women who undertook this role on our behalf,\" he said.Australia, a staunch US ally, was one of the first countries to commit troops to the Iraq war five years ago.Rudd has said that the deployment made Australia more of a target for terrorism, but his predecessor, John Howard, has defended his decision. \"I firmly believe it was the right thing to have done,\" he told the Sydney Morning Herald. \"If I had been returned at the last election we would not have been bringing them home, we would have been looking at transitioning them from their soon-to-be terminated role to a training role.\"Some 300 troops will stay in Baghdad to help guard Australian diplomats. A further 500 will remain in the region, including 200 sailors aboard the frigate HMAS Stuart in the Persian Gulf.No Australian soldiers were killed in combat in Iraq, although six were wounded by roadside bombs.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Iraq", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia ends combat operations in Iraq"},{"date": "2008-05-19T09:04:28Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Claims by a leading researcher that cancer deaths in a small town in Queensland, Australia, are 10 times higher than the state average owing to the secret testing of Agent Orange there more than 40 years ago are to be investigated by the authorities.Australian military scientists sprayed the toxic herbicide on rainforest near Innisfail during defoliant testing in the early years of the Vietnam war, it is alleged. The jungle began dying and has never recovered, according to local people. The site is near a river which supplies water for the town in the far north of the country and researchers believe the spraying may be responsible for cancer rates in the area being 10 times the state average and four times the national average.The Innisfail claims were made by the researcher Jean Williams, who has been awarded the Order of Australia medal for her work on the effects of chemicals on Vietnam war veterans. She said she found reports of the secret tests in Australian War Memorial museum archives.\"These tests carried out between 1964 and 1966 were the first tests of Agent Orange,\" she told Fairfax Media.Williams said one of the files on the testing was marked \"considered sensitive\" and showed that the chemicals 2,4-D, Diquat, Tordon and dimethylsulphoxide had been sprayed on the rainforest.\"It was considered sensitive because they were mixing together all the bad chemicals, which just made them worse,\" she said. \"Those chemicals stay in the soil for years and every time there is a storm they are stirred up and go into the water supply.\"Williams also claimed that a file which could prove that wider testing took place had gone missing from the archives.A former soldier, Ted Bosworth, has backed up the claims, saying two scientists he drove to the site in the 1960s were interested in the effect the chemical cocktail had on rubber vine, which is also found in Vietnam.\"They sprayed the trees by hand and then in the next couple of weeks I took them back up and they put ladders up against the trees and took photos of them as the foliage was dying,\" he said. \"They called it some other funny name - I hadn't heard of Agent Orange then.\"Agent Orange was sprayed by the Australian and the US military during the Vietnam war to defoliate jungle where North Vietnamese troops were positioned. The cocktail of toxic chemicals in Agent Orange has been linked to cancer, birth defects and other health problems.Yesterday the local mayor, Bill Shannon, called on the Australian Defence Force to investigate Williams's claims. He said the half-acre site remains deforested, and though the town's water supply showed no evidence of the chemicals, local people had long been concerned about cancer rates in the area. \"I'd like to know exactly what did happen and the extent of it. We don't want a cover-up,\" he said. Queensland's premier, Anna Bligh, said she was disturbed by the claims. \"Any concerns these residents have can and will be investigated thoroughly,\" she said in Brisbane yesterday. However, the Queensland health department said that the incidence of cancer in Innisfail is no higher than in other parts of the state.\u00b7 This article was amended on Tuesday May 20 2008. Queensland's premier is Anna Bligh, not Blyth. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia cancer deaths linked to Agent Orange"},{"date": "2008-05-08T10:53:24Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Tourism Australia has parted company with M&C Saatchi, the ad agency that created the controversial \"Where the bloody hell are you?\" campaign.The Australian tourism body has instead shortlisted rival agencies Saatchi & Saatchi - the agency founded by the Saatchi brothers before they quit to set up M&C Saatchi, but now owned by Publicis - and DDB Worldwide to pitch for its A$65m (\u00a330.1m)-a-year global advertising account.M&C Saatchi, which gave up the New Zealand tourist board account three years ago to handle Tourism Australia, was one of five agencies to be dropped from the pitch process.WPP-owned Ogilvy and Mather, Publicis Mojo and Whybin TBWA were also cut, while Clemenger BBDO had already pulled out of the pitch process.\"We thank all the agencies that have been working with us through this process for their commitment, time and interest in working with Tourism Australia,\" said the body's managing director, Geoff Buckley. \"We recognise the significant investment they have made in tendering for our business and we are very grateful for it.\"Tourism Australia infamously ruffled British sensibilities in 2006 with M&C Saatchi's controversial \"Where the bloody hell are you?\" TV ad campaign.The UK advertising regulator received a string of complaints about the ad, which led Australian tourism minister Fran Bailey to accuse the British of lacking a sense of humour. The row resulted in acres of free media coverage.\"We thank in particular M&C Saatchi, Tourism Australia's current creative agency, which has provided three years of excellent service to us,\" Buckley added. \"We recognise their contribution, both creatively and as strategic partners, in taking the international marketing of Australia into a new and exciting era.\"Buckley said the long list of agencies - with the exception of Clemenger BBDO which withdrew from the process - had met last week with Tourism Australia's selection panel, including a sub-committee of its governing board. He added that the decision of the panel and sub-committee was unanimous. Following the final pitches and presentations the board of Tourism Australia will make a recommendation about its preferred agency to the Australian minister for tourism, Martin Ferguson.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Advertising", "Media", "Marketing & PR", "Australia news", "M&C Saatchi", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Tourism Australia drops M&C Saatchi"},{"date": "2008-04-15T08:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's television advertisements are enticing. 'So where the bloody hell are you', the slogan reads, splashed on a backdrop of gorgeous beaches, tanned natives and blue skies. With the never-ending sunshine and an active outdoorsy lifestyle, it's hard to imagine you'll give healthcare a second thought. However, chances are you'll need medical help one day \u2013 and it's best to get to grips with it before, rather than when, you need it. Like Britain, Australia has both public and private health systems, but unlike Britain, it's not a matter of opting for one or the other; the two are more integrated.Australia's public health system is called Medicare. Brits can use the services as much as Australians because reciprocal agreements are in place between the countries. However, this does not apply to anyone who has moved to Australia on a retiree visa (Subclass Visa 410) since 1998. Once you're there, you can apply for a Medicare card, which health practitioners will ask for when you visit. The pharmaceutical benefits scheme (PBS) provides subsidised medications, and prescription costs are comparable with British charges. Residents contribute to funding Medicare via the Medicare levy. This charge (1.5% of taxable income) is calculated annually when lodging a tax return (compulsory in Australia). If you earn above AUS$50,000 as a single person, or $100,000 as a family, and you don't have private hospital insurance, there's a surcharge of 1%, aimed at encouraging those on higher incomes to go private. If you visit a public hospital, any treatment you receive is free. Medicare is usually charged directly for the cost of your consultation (known as bulk billing) \u2013 or you might have to pay up front and claim a portion of the cost back from Medicare. Typically, you'll pay a general practitioner about $50 and reclaim $30 from Medicare. Approximately 75% of services are bulk billed, and if you're cutting costs you can usually find a clinic that bulk bills all patients \u2013 although bear in mind appointments may be harder to get and waiting times longer. Children, pensioners and anyone receiving benefits are usually bulk billed. Referrals for blood tests, x-rays or specialists, however, incur extra costs.When it comes to speed and flexibility, Australian healthcare compares favourably with Britain. Karen Coleman moved to Sydney from England nine months ago and says she's been impressed so far. 'I recently needed to have pelvic ultrasounds. An appointment was made within a week and the results were available on the same day,' she explains. 'I had to pay, but Medicare refunded half the cost. I considered it money well spent. Had I been in England I would have waited weeks for the test itself and further weeks for the results, adding to the worry.'Medicare also offers a rebate if you choose to have procedures done privately, rather than join a public hospital waiting list for elective surgery. The decision to go private for a knee operation in Australia hinges on whether you can afford to pay half the bill, rather than the entire bill you'd have to pay in the United Kingdom if you opted for private surgery without insurance. In Australia, you can be registered at any number of GP clinics at the same time. Rebecca Tubman, who moved to Adelaide from Cumbria 18 months ago, finds that it's easier to see a doctor when she needs one. 'You can phone up and get an appointment on the same day,' she says.What the government does not do is cover ambulance services, except in Queensland and Tasmania. If you have to be taken to hospital by ambulance you're likely to receive a bill for as much as $600. You can buy 'ambulance insurance' \u2013 and peace of mind \u2013 for about $50 a year. Medicare provides only extremely limited dental subsidies, so make sure your teeth are in good condition before leaving. Access to allied health is also restricted under the public system. According to the private health insurance administration council, or PHIAC, about 44% of the Australian population now has private hospital insurance. There is a huge variety of policies on offer, ranging from basic hospital care to cover for dental work, allied health and even the gap between Medicare rebates and consultation costs. Waiting times for elective surgery are much shorter for private patients. In 2000 the government introduced a lifetime health cover, or LHC, to encourage people to go private younger. Anyone signing up under the age of 31 need only pay the regular insurance premium, while older people pay an extra 2% on their premium for each year over 30 they are \u2013 up to a maximum of 70% extra. This means a 40-year-old signing up for the first time will pay 20% more each year than someone of the same age who signed up before they were 31. The good news is that if you're a new migrant, regardless of your age, the extra charge will not apply if you sign up for private healthcare within one year of arriving.Particularly if you are a high-income earner, it's worth calling insurers to work out if taking out private insurance could save you money. Depending on your earnings, the Medicare levy surcharge could cost you more than an annual health premium, so you may be better off with private hospital cover. In addition, the government provides a 30% rebate on premiums, increasing for those over 65. If you have frequent health costs it may also be cost-effective, so make time in your first year to look into your options. That is, if you can drag yourself away from the beach. www.medicareaustralia.gov.auwww.privatehealth.com.au", "tags": ["Expat finance", "Healthcare industry", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Healthcare in Australia"},{"date": "2008-04-18T11:43:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The recently elected Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, is holding a brainstorming session this weekend to come up with future policy ideas.He has invited 1,000 of the country's \"best and brightest\" minds (which naturally includes Cate Blanchett) to the two-day summit. Rudd has expressed the hope that it will \"shake some new ideas loose from the tree\".The suggestions so far are a mixture of the serious and the bizzare. They include: - Send more people up to Darwin to take advantage of the higher rainfall there- A euthanasia kit for the frail- Dump the Queen as head of state- A ban on the sale of alcohol to the country's indigenous population- Raise the smoking age to 40- Free crayfish meals for everyone - Jukeboxes for nursing homesWe'd like to know how you would make Australia better? Throw out all the poms is not an acceptable answer.", "tags": ["World news", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "How would you improve  Australia?"},{"date": "2008-06-28T23:01:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australian soldiers who served in Iraq were given a rousing reception by about 10,000 people yesterday at a 'welcome home' parade in Brisbane that marked the country's withdrawal from combat operations.Well-wishers waved flags and banners and cheered as some 700 troops, many only recently returned from the war zone, marched through the streets in desert camouflage uniforms with an army band playing 'Waltzing Matilda'. The Prime Minister, Kevin Rudd, was among a host of dignitaries who paid tribute at the ceremony, described as Australia's biggest military homecoming parade since the Second World War.'Today the Australian nation says \"thank you\" to you, the men and women of the Australian Defence Force, for your service in Iraq,' said Rudd as he took the official salute outside City Hall. 'Freedom is not for free. Freedom comes at a price, and you are our front line in the defence of our freedom.' Parents, partners, children and other relatives of those who 'answered the nation's call' were thanked for supporting the soldiers.Private Dean Smith said he was happy to be home and was proud of having served in Iraq. 'It's really great to come home to such an amazing welcome from the public,' he said, waving to his family.Major John Papalitsas, commanding officer of the Australian Counter Insurgency Detachments, returned home last week after spending the past seven months in Iraq. 'I think it's very difficult for people to understand exactly how complex the nature of operations in Iraq are,' he said. 'It's a spider's web of complexity and I don't think people really understand what a good job the coalition forces are doing.' His mother, Rosemary, said she was relieved to have her son safely home. 'I don't think I can really hide my pride,' she said.Troops were deployed to Iraq by the former Liberal Prime Minister, John Howard, a strong supporter of the 2003 invasion. He has been criticised by Rudd, his Labor successor, for backing the war 'without accurate information or full assessment of the consequences'. Rudd made it a key election promise to withdraw combat troops as quickly as possible, though 300 will stay in Baghdad to help guard Australian diplomats and a further 500 will remain in the region.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Iraq", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Troops welcomed home as Australia quits Iraq"},{"date": "2008-06-02T08:12:23Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australian troops returning home from combat operations in southern Iraq will be welcomed with an official parade, it was announced today.The country's prime minister, Kevin Rudd, will personally greet the returning soldiers at a ceremony on June 28, when the streets of Brisbane are expected to be lined with well-wishers. The pullout, announced yesterday, fulfils an election promise made by the Labor government to end the Australian military's combat role in Iraq.Soldiers marked the end of their deployment by lowering the Australian flag that had flown over Camp Terendak in the southern Iraqi city of Talil.The defence minister, Joel Fitzgibbon, said the withdrawal \"closed anotherchapter in a strong and proud Australian military history\". The 550 members of the Overwatch Battle Group, who have been operating in al-Muthanna and Dhi Qar provinces, should be proud of what they had achieved, he added.Australian troops had protected engineers carrying out reconstruction work, contributed to the training of 33,000 Iraqi soldiers and police and mentored Iraqis involved in counterinsurgency operations, he said.\"Our soldiers have worked tirelessly to ensure that local people in southern Iraq have the best possible chance to move on from their suffering under Saddam's regime.\"He also described the decision to pull the troops out of Iraq as overdue, saying the country's military had become overstretched by its commitments in East Timor, Afghanistan and Iraq.The Australians are being replaced by Iraqi and US soldiers.Major General Bill Crews, the national head of the Returned Services League, said he expected a huge turnout to welcome the troops home.\"I believe we're able, or most of us are able, to separate the politics of the deployment from the need to wholeheartedly support the service men and women who undertook this role on our behalf,\" he said.Australia, a staunch US ally, was one of the first countries to commit troops to the Iraq war five years ago.Rudd has said that the deployment made Australia more of a target for terrorism, but his predecessor, John Howard, has defended his decision. \"I firmly believe it was the right thing to have done,\" he told the Sydney Morning Herald. \"If I had been returned at the last election we would not have been bringing them home, we would have been looking at transitioning them from their soon-to-be terminated role to a training role.\"Some 300 troops will stay in Baghdad to help guard Australian diplomats. A further 500 will remain in the region, including 200 sailors aboard the frigate HMAS Stuart in the Persian Gulf.No Australian soldiers were killed in combat in Iraq, although six were wounded by roadside bombs.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Iraq", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia ends combat operations in Iraq"},{"date": "2008-05-19T09:04:28Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Claims by a leading researcher that cancer deaths in a small town in Queensland, Australia, are 10 times higher than the state average owing to the secret testing of Agent Orange there more than 40 years ago are to be investigated by the authorities.Australian military scientists sprayed the toxic herbicide on rainforest near Innisfail during defoliant testing in the early years of the Vietnam war, it is alleged. The jungle began dying and has never recovered, according to local people. The site is near a river which supplies water for the town in the far north of the country and researchers believe the spraying may be responsible for cancer rates in the area being 10 times the state average and four times the national average.The Innisfail claims were made by the researcher Jean Williams, who has been awarded the Order of Australia medal for her work on the effects of chemicals on Vietnam war veterans. She said she found reports of the secret tests in Australian War Memorial museum archives.\"These tests carried out between 1964 and 1966 were the first tests of Agent Orange,\" she told Fairfax Media.Williams said one of the files on the testing was marked \"considered sensitive\" and showed that the chemicals 2,4-D, Diquat, Tordon and dimethylsulphoxide had been sprayed on the rainforest.\"It was considered sensitive because they were mixing together all the bad chemicals, which just made them worse,\" she said. \"Those chemicals stay in the soil for years and every time there is a storm they are stirred up and go into the water supply.\"Williams also claimed that a file which could prove that wider testing took place had gone missing from the archives.A former soldier, Ted Bosworth, has backed up the claims, saying two scientists he drove to the site in the 1960s were interested in the effect the chemical cocktail had on rubber vine, which is also found in Vietnam.\"They sprayed the trees by hand and then in the next couple of weeks I took them back up and they put ladders up against the trees and took photos of them as the foliage was dying,\" he said. \"They called it some other funny name - I hadn't heard of Agent Orange then.\"Agent Orange was sprayed by the Australian and the US military during the Vietnam war to defoliate jungle where North Vietnamese troops were positioned. The cocktail of toxic chemicals in Agent Orange has been linked to cancer, birth defects and other health problems.Yesterday the local mayor, Bill Shannon, called on the Australian Defence Force to investigate Williams's claims. He said the half-acre site remains deforested, and though the town's water supply showed no evidence of the chemicals, local people had long been concerned about cancer rates in the area. \"I'd like to know exactly what did happen and the extent of it. We don't want a cover-up,\" he said. Queensland's premier, Anna Bligh, said she was disturbed by the claims. \"Any concerns these residents have can and will be investigated thoroughly,\" she said in Brisbane yesterday. However, the Queensland health department said that the incidence of cancer in Innisfail is no higher than in other parts of the state.\u00b7 This article was amended on Tuesday May 20 2008. Queensland's premier is Anna Bligh, not Blyth. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia cancer deaths linked to Agent Orange"},{"date": "2008-05-08T10:53:24Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Tourism Australia has parted company with M&C Saatchi, the ad agency that created the controversial \"Where the bloody hell are you?\" campaign.The Australian tourism body has instead shortlisted rival agencies Saatchi & Saatchi - the agency founded by the Saatchi brothers before they quit to set up M&C Saatchi, but now owned by Publicis - and DDB Worldwide to pitch for its A$65m (\u00a330.1m)-a-year global advertising account.M&C Saatchi, which gave up the New Zealand tourist board account three years ago to handle Tourism Australia, was one of five agencies to be dropped from the pitch process.WPP-owned Ogilvy and Mather, Publicis Mojo and Whybin TBWA were also cut, while Clemenger BBDO had already pulled out of the pitch process.\"We thank all the agencies that have been working with us through this process for their commitment, time and interest in working with Tourism Australia,\" said the body's managing director, Geoff Buckley. \"We recognise the significant investment they have made in tendering for our business and we are very grateful for it.\"Tourism Australia infamously ruffled British sensibilities in 2006 with M&C Saatchi's controversial \"Where the bloody hell are you?\" TV ad campaign.The UK advertising regulator received a string of complaints about the ad, which led Australian tourism minister Fran Bailey to accuse the British of lacking a sense of humour. The row resulted in acres of free media coverage.\"We thank in particular M&C Saatchi, Tourism Australia's current creative agency, which has provided three years of excellent service to us,\" Buckley added. \"We recognise their contribution, both creatively and as strategic partners, in taking the international marketing of Australia into a new and exciting era.\"Buckley said the long list of agencies - with the exception of Clemenger BBDO which withdrew from the process - had met last week with Tourism Australia's selection panel, including a sub-committee of its governing board. He added that the decision of the panel and sub-committee was unanimous. Following the final pitches and presentations the board of Tourism Australia will make a recommendation about its preferred agency to the Australian minister for tourism, Martin Ferguson.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Advertising", "Media", "Marketing & PR", "Australia news", "M&C Saatchi", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Tourism Australia drops M&C Saatchi"},{"date": "2008-04-24T11:13:45Z", "country": "australia", "content": "An extraordinary experiment in open democracy, the Australia 2020 summit, was held last weekend in Canberra.A range of people - business leaders, academics, artists, economists, journalists, social workers, nurses and politicians - travelled to Canberra at their own expense and invaded Parliament House to talk. And talk they did, under the glare of relentless media attention, for two intense days. Putting all these people together in one place resulted in a wealth of policy suggestions. If the Rudd government wanted ideas, it got them in spades.Culture, under the rubric \"Creative Australia\", was one of the 10 topics slated for discussion. Australia's cultural community was heartened to find its work considered one of the \"critical areas\" of Australia's future, and it responded with energy and enthusiasm. A diverse group of 102 \"creatives\" arrived in Canberra to meet Rudd; starpower was provided by Cate Blanchett and Hugh Jackman.It wasn't only the creatives who complained that the ideas generated in discussion were not reflected in the initial report announced to the Australian public at the end of the weekend. As the website states: \"Logistics in getting the Initial Report prepared and printed didn't allow for the capturing of some of the ideas from the final Sunday sessions.\"It was evident to those who participated that this was about more than logistics. What was presented as the intellectual fruit of the \"best and brightest\" had a curious tendency to align with Labor policy. In fact, some of the summiteers' alleged bright ideas - such as a plan for one-stop childcare and health centres - actually came from the prime minister himself.Cynics have dismissed the event as a cheap public relations stunt designed to validate Rudd's policies; a level of healthy scepticism is perhaps in order. The message at the end of the weekend was that the summit was the beginning of a conversation, not the end of one. A final report is due in a few weeks, which will include the full range of ideas suggested during the weekend, and the promise is that each will be read and considered. It's even possible that some might be put into action - as long as they don't cost any money.What might have more radical implications is that this event got together a total of 1002 people who discovered that, for all their differences, had a lot of concerns in common. Artists spoke to nurses who explained how they used works of art to teach ethics in nursing people with senile dementia. A roomful of corporate women in the productivity stream were told by their facilitator that he had had enough of them talking about how much they needed the arts. Just as important were the conversations between the creatives themselves: writers, curators, producers and musicians sharing ideas and learning from one other.Under prime ministers like Gough Whitlam and Paul Keating, the Australian Labor Party has a record of strong support for the arts. It's not as if culture hasn't had its supporters on the other side of politics - Victorian Liberal premier Rupert Hamer, for example, was a famous patron - but under the Howard government, although funding increased, the arts were consigned to a policy-free zone that was mainly confined to crisis response. Producers and artists were also subject to unprecedented political interference. Several major funding bodies reported directly to the minister, undermining the principle of arms-length funding that informed earlier policies.Whatever their difficulties under Howard, many in the arts community are anxious about the Rudd government's cultural policy. The minister for arts, heritage and environment is Peter Garrett, lead singer of Midnight Oil and environmental activist before being reborn as a celebrity Labor politician. He hasn't inspired confidence: one of his first acts in government was to axe an international touring fund set up by foreign minister Alexander Downer. Ironically enough, a proposal for just such a fund was offered last weekend.All the same, this is a government which says it actually likes the arts, and everyone agrees that this makes a nice change. And last weekend's experiment was spectacularly successful in galvanising and engaging a group of strategically placed people from a broad cross section of Australian society. What's more, it was startling and profoundly encouraging to witness how people were able to put self-interest aside and bend their minds to the common good.This is a model of consultation that could be fruitfully adopted by any government. (And cheap to boot. The entire summit was staffed by volunteers, and participants paid their own expenses.) In terms of harvesting ideas, it was a brilliant success. What remains to be seen is whether the Australian government will use them as more than decoration.", "tags": ["Stage", "Culture", "Theatre", "Kevin Rudd", "Australian politics"], "title": "Alison Croggon reports on Kevin Rudd's Australia 2020 summit"},{"date": "2008-09-19T15:50:45Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Standing in the kitchen of a small apartment in outer-suburban Melbourne, Htoo and his wife Gana are reading aloud from an English textbook, helped by their volunteer tutor Narelle. The language is clear and easy to understand, but when they put the book away and sit down to speak about their progress with learning English, things get much more difficult.With the help of a translator, Htoo and Gana explain that they, like thousands of refugees belonging to the Karen ethnic group, fled Burma in 1990. They spent 15 years in a refugee camp on the western border of Thailand, where their daughter was born, before being accepted for resettlement in Australia in 2007. In many ways they are the new face of Australia's long-running Australian Migrant English Programme (Amep) which, 60 years after it was founded, is struggling to deliver functional English to a changing, and swelling, cohort of arrivals. Amep has seen client numbers increase from 37,000 in 2004 to more than 50,000 this year, a third of whom are resettling under the programme's humanitarian stream. This changing demographic has sparked a major review of the Amep programme that will lead to a complete re-tendering for provision of teaching services from 2010. In a discussion paper released in July, the recently renamed Department of Immigration and Citizenship reports that: \"An audit undertaken by Ernst & Young in 2007 noted that the current strategic goal and objectives of the programme do not align.\" Htoo and Gana have completed the standard 510 hours of tuition provided for all non-English-speaking- background (Nesb) migrants, but are clearly having trouble communicating in spoken English. Michelle de Courcy, senior lecturer and postgraduate coordinator for Tesol at the University of Melbourne, said this was a familiar scenario: \"The decoding skills required for reading aloud are relatively easy to acquire, and we often encounter Karen people with very large and complex vocabularies, but not the links required to put them together for interpersonal communication.\" The Amep review discussion paper notes: \"A major criticism of the Amep is a lack of distinction between client groups and a 'one-size-fits-all' approach in providing English tuition.\" De Courcy, who with the Australian Council of Tesol Associations is making a submission to the Amep review, explained: \"The Amep programme may have been appropriate for earlier highly schooled, highly literate cohorts, but you have to look at exactly who is making up the classes \u2014 a good example is the Sudanese migrants arriving in the past few years. You need to look at whether they're from southern Sudan, the Dinka, whose language doesn't really have a written form, or those from the Muslim north who have to be literate in Arabic to be able to read the Koran.\"Another facet of the problem is that the programme has long been promoted as a pathway into employment, despite the fact that 56% of migrants arrive under the \"family\" stream and many of them are too old to work. This is now being addressed in the Amep review, which proposes to create two distinct pathways: \"Settlement for Employment Participation\" and \"Settlement for Social Participation\".Perhaps more importantly for groups such as the Karen, the review discussion paper raised the issue of the number of hours of tuition that will deliver basic functional English. It stated: \"The 510 hours entitlement is not based on any estimate of the time needed to reach proficiency in English. It was derived by averaging the hours that Amep clients spent in the programme irrespective of educational background.\" It also notes that Canada and the UK \"do not cap the number of hours of English language training offered to eligible clients\".The report cites recent research that suggests \"the learning of another language requires on average 1,800 hours\". While this is a laudable objective, such a large and expensive increase in hours for 50,000 migrants a year looks unlikely.Where government funding falls short, charities do their best to bridge the gap. In the case of Htoo and Gana, and the four other adult Karen with whom they share their weekly classes, the charity is The Smith Family, which runs a language programme known as Each One Teach One (Eoto). While the scheme itself is not new \u2014 it was founded in Sydney in 1971 largely to help socially isolated migrant women \u2014 it is now attempting to expand in Melbourne to help refugees falling through the Amep net.Since 2006 it has expanded into five of Melbourne's poorer suburbs, funded through individual and corporate donations and with all tutoring done on a volunteer basis. \"Finding the tutors is the ongoing issue,\" said Eoto coordinator, Lisa Miller, \"though we'll never run out of students.\"In addition to face-to-face tutoring, it links students to English speaking \"mentors\" by phone, sending each a copy of the same book to read aloud during three 20-minute sessions a week. \"One big problem is that they need a landline to call their mentors, which many of them can't afford. Some have mobile phones, but the calls are expensive. That's a huge frustration, because we can achieve so much just for the cost of a phone call,\" said Miller.Eoto volunteer tutors complete a six-week, part-time training course before teaching. Htoo and Gana's teacher Naralle works for an insurance company by day and teaches the Karen group one evening per week. \"Their reading and writing is very good, so I'm going to start to focus more on conversation,\" she said. \"For me, it's about giving something back to the community, but I also get a lot of insight into their culture. I've travelled in south-east Asia and I hope to go and work in the camps my students come from.\"", "tags": ["Tefl", "Australia news", "Education", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia rethinks migrant support"},{"date": "2008-09-19T15:50:45Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Standing in the kitchen of a small apartment in outer-suburban Melbourne, Htoo and his wife Gana are reading aloud from an English textbook, helped by their volunteer tutor Narelle. The language is clear and easy to understand, but when they put the book away and sit down to speak about their progress with learning English, things get much more difficult.With the help of a translator, Htoo and Gana explain that they, like thousands of refugees belonging to the Karen ethnic group, fled Burma in 1990. They spent 15 years in a refugee camp on the western border of Thailand, where their daughter was born, before being accepted for resettlement in Australia in 2007. In many ways they are the new face of Australia's long-running Australian Migrant English Programme (Amep) which, 60 years after it was founded, is struggling to deliver functional English to a changing, and swelling, cohort of arrivals. Amep has seen client numbers increase from 37,000 in 2004 to more than 50,000 this year, a third of whom are resettling under the programme's humanitarian stream. This changing demographic has sparked a major review of the Amep programme that will lead to a complete re-tendering for provision of teaching services from 2010. In a discussion paper released in July, the recently renamed Department of Immigration and Citizenship reports that: \"An audit undertaken by Ernst & Young in 2007 noted that the current strategic goal and objectives of the programme do not align.\" Htoo and Gana have completed the standard 510 hours of tuition provided for all non-English-speaking- background (Nesb) migrants, but are clearly having trouble communicating in spoken English. Michelle de Courcy, senior lecturer and postgraduate coordinator for Tesol at the University of Melbourne, said this was a familiar scenario: \"The decoding skills required for reading aloud are relatively easy to acquire, and we often encounter Karen people with very large and complex vocabularies, but not the links required to put them together for interpersonal communication.\" The Amep review discussion paper notes: \"A major criticism of the Amep is a lack of distinction between client groups and a 'one-size-fits-all' approach in providing English tuition.\" De Courcy, who with the Australian Council of Tesol Associations is making a submission to the Amep review, explained: \"The Amep programme may have been appropriate for earlier highly schooled, highly literate cohorts, but you have to look at exactly who is making up the classes \u2014 a good example is the Sudanese migrants arriving in the past few years. You need to look at whether they're from southern Sudan, the Dinka, whose language doesn't really have a written form, or those from the Muslim north who have to be literate in Arabic to be able to read the Koran.\"Another facet of the problem is that the programme has long been promoted as a pathway into employment, despite the fact that 56% of migrants arrive under the \"family\" stream and many of them are too old to work. This is now being addressed in the Amep review, which proposes to create two distinct pathways: \"Settlement for Employment Participation\" and \"Settlement for Social Participation\".Perhaps more importantly for groups such as the Karen, the review discussion paper raised the issue of the number of hours of tuition that will deliver basic functional English. It stated: \"The 510 hours entitlement is not based on any estimate of the time needed to reach proficiency in English. It was derived by averaging the hours that Amep clients spent in the programme irrespective of educational background.\" It also notes that Canada and the UK \"do not cap the number of hours of English language training offered to eligible clients\".The report cites recent research that suggests \"the learning of another language requires on average 1,800 hours\". While this is a laudable objective, such a large and expensive increase in hours for 50,000 migrants a year looks unlikely.Where government funding falls short, charities do their best to bridge the gap. In the case of Htoo and Gana, and the four other adult Karen with whom they share their weekly classes, the charity is The Smith Family, which runs a language programme known as Each One Teach One (Eoto). While the scheme itself is not new \u2014 it was founded in Sydney in 1971 largely to help socially isolated migrant women \u2014 it is now attempting to expand in Melbourne to help refugees falling through the Amep net.Since 2006 it has expanded into five of Melbourne's poorer suburbs, funded through individual and corporate donations and with all tutoring done on a volunteer basis. \"Finding the tutors is the ongoing issue,\" said Eoto coordinator, Lisa Miller, \"though we'll never run out of students.\"In addition to face-to-face tutoring, it links students to English speaking \"mentors\" by phone, sending each a copy of the same book to read aloud during three 20-minute sessions a week. \"One big problem is that they need a landline to call their mentors, which many of them can't afford. Some have mobile phones, but the calls are expensive. That's a huge frustration, because we can achieve so much just for the cost of a phone call,\" said Miller.Eoto volunteer tutors complete a six-week, part-time training course before teaching. Htoo and Gana's teacher Naralle works for an insurance company by day and teaches the Karen group one evening per week. \"Their reading and writing is very good, so I'm going to start to focus more on conversation,\" she said. \"For me, it's about giving something back to the community, but I also get a lot of insight into their culture. I've travelled in south-east Asia and I hope to go and work in the camps my students come from.\"", "tags": ["Tefl", "Australia news", "Education", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia rethinks migrant support"},{"date": "2008-09-09T06:09:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia is the \"the only mature market in the western world where more money is spent on newspaper advertising than any other medium\", says Mark Hollands, ceo of the Pacific Area Newspaper Publishers' Association. On that basis he told a PANPA conference: \"This is possibly the most exciting time to be in newspapers because... every day we have to face the challenge of thinking about things differently, working collaboratively and trying techniques we've never tried before.\"Australia's prime minister Kevin Rudd told the same conference that he is the only person in his family who still reads a newsprint paper. \"I am the 'last of the Mohicans' in our family,\" he said. \"Neither my wife or any of my three kids read a newspaper. They read it all online. And that's just the way it's been for the last several years.\" (Sources: FollowTheMedia/Gold Coast Bulletin/ABC)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "World news", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "Western Australia"], "title": "Two newspaper stories from Australia"},{"date": "2008-09-19T15:50:45Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Standing in the kitchen of a small apartment in outer-suburban Melbourne, Htoo and his wife Gana are reading aloud from an English textbook, helped by their volunteer tutor Narelle. The language is clear and easy to understand, but when they put the book away and sit down to speak about their progress with learning English, things get much more difficult.With the help of a translator, Htoo and Gana explain that they, like thousands of refugees belonging to the Karen ethnic group, fled Burma in 1990. They spent 15 years in a refugee camp on the western border of Thailand, where their daughter was born, before being accepted for resettlement in Australia in 2007. In many ways they are the new face of Australia's long-running Australian Migrant English Programme (Amep) which, 60 years after it was founded, is struggling to deliver functional English to a changing, and swelling, cohort of arrivals. Amep has seen client numbers increase from 37,000 in 2004 to more than 50,000 this year, a third of whom are resettling under the programme's humanitarian stream. This changing demographic has sparked a major review of the Amep programme that will lead to a complete re-tendering for provision of teaching services from 2010. In a discussion paper released in July, the recently renamed Department of Immigration and Citizenship reports that: \"An audit undertaken by Ernst & Young in 2007 noted that the current strategic goal and objectives of the programme do not align.\" Htoo and Gana have completed the standard 510 hours of tuition provided for all non-English-speaking- background (Nesb) migrants, but are clearly having trouble communicating in spoken English. Michelle de Courcy, senior lecturer and postgraduate coordinator for Tesol at the University of Melbourne, said this was a familiar scenario: \"The decoding skills required for reading aloud are relatively easy to acquire, and we often encounter Karen people with very large and complex vocabularies, but not the links required to put them together for interpersonal communication.\" The Amep review discussion paper notes: \"A major criticism of the Amep is a lack of distinction between client groups and a 'one-size-fits-all' approach in providing English tuition.\" De Courcy, who with the Australian Council of Tesol Associations is making a submission to the Amep review, explained: \"The Amep programme may have been appropriate for earlier highly schooled, highly literate cohorts, but you have to look at exactly who is making up the classes \u2014 a good example is the Sudanese migrants arriving in the past few years. You need to look at whether they're from southern Sudan, the Dinka, whose language doesn't really have a written form, or those from the Muslim north who have to be literate in Arabic to be able to read the Koran.\"Another facet of the problem is that the programme has long been promoted as a pathway into employment, despite the fact that 56% of migrants arrive under the \"family\" stream and many of them are too old to work. This is now being addressed in the Amep review, which proposes to create two distinct pathways: \"Settlement for Employment Participation\" and \"Settlement for Social Participation\".Perhaps more importantly for groups such as the Karen, the review discussion paper raised the issue of the number of hours of tuition that will deliver basic functional English. It stated: \"The 510 hours entitlement is not based on any estimate of the time needed to reach proficiency in English. It was derived by averaging the hours that Amep clients spent in the programme irrespective of educational background.\" It also notes that Canada and the UK \"do not cap the number of hours of English language training offered to eligible clients\".The report cites recent research that suggests \"the learning of another language requires on average 1,800 hours\". While this is a laudable objective, such a large and expensive increase in hours for 50,000 migrants a year looks unlikely.Where government funding falls short, charities do their best to bridge the gap. In the case of Htoo and Gana, and the four other adult Karen with whom they share their weekly classes, the charity is The Smith Family, which runs a language programme known as Each One Teach One (Eoto). While the scheme itself is not new \u2014 it was founded in Sydney in 1971 largely to help socially isolated migrant women \u2014 it is now attempting to expand in Melbourne to help refugees falling through the Amep net.Since 2006 it has expanded into five of Melbourne's poorer suburbs, funded through individual and corporate donations and with all tutoring done on a volunteer basis. \"Finding the tutors is the ongoing issue,\" said Eoto coordinator, Lisa Miller, \"though we'll never run out of students.\"In addition to face-to-face tutoring, it links students to English speaking \"mentors\" by phone, sending each a copy of the same book to read aloud during three 20-minute sessions a week. \"One big problem is that they need a landline to call their mentors, which many of them can't afford. Some have mobile phones, but the calls are expensive. That's a huge frustration, because we can achieve so much just for the cost of a phone call,\" said Miller.Eoto volunteer tutors complete a six-week, part-time training course before teaching. Htoo and Gana's teacher Naralle works for an insurance company by day and teaches the Karen group one evening per week. \"Their reading and writing is very good, so I'm going to start to focus more on conversation,\" she said. \"For me, it's about giving something back to the community, but I also get a lot of insight into their culture. I've travelled in south-east Asia and I hope to go and work in the camps my students come from.\"", "tags": ["Tefl", "Australia news", "Education", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia rethinks migrant support"},{"date": "2008-09-09T06:09:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia is the \"the only mature market in the western world where more money is spent on newspaper advertising than any other medium\", says Mark Hollands, ceo of the Pacific Area Newspaper Publishers' Association. On that basis he told a PANPA conference: \"This is possibly the most exciting time to be in newspapers because... every day we have to face the challenge of thinking about things differently, working collaboratively and trying techniques we've never tried before.\"Australia's prime minister Kevin Rudd told the same conference that he is the only person in his family who still reads a newsprint paper. \"I am the 'last of the Mohicans' in our family,\" he said. \"Neither my wife or any of my three kids read a newspaper. They read it all online. And that's just the way it's been for the last several years.\" (Sources: FollowTheMedia/Gold Coast Bulletin/ABC)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "World news", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "Western Australia"], "title": "Two newspaper stories from Australia"},{"date": "2008-07-07T19:30:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "I am an Australian petrol-head. My first car as a teenage high school graduate was a modest Datsun, but as soon as the bank would lend me any money I sunk it into a 1970s Ford Landau hard top. It had two doors, four seats, bright green paint, a nearly six-litre engine and a monstrous appetite for petrol.Australia is a country built on the motor car. So is a big chunk of its heavy industry. New car sales are as much of an economic indicator as house construction. The Ford Falcon and Holden Commodore are the mainstays, family cars that are monsters by European standards. The standard models have a basic six-cylinder engine of around four litres, but if that fuel bill isn't enough you can have turbocharged or V8 motors of up to six litres. The Australian male is defined in part by whether he is a Holden man or a Ford man.Our automotive industry is kept afloat in no small part by tariffs and design rules that push up the price of imports, new or secondhand, and has even been propped up by huge subsidies. Governments have argued that the heavy industry that comes along with building Aussie muscle cars is essential to our economy and defence capacity, and must be maintained. Many car buyers still subscribe to the outdated 1970s argument that smaller, more efficient European or Japanese models are not suited to tough Australian running conditions.We have the motor car to thank for much of our quality of life in Australia, a country of vast distances where a three or four-hour drive is nothing. Australia as a nation grew up with the car: it contributed to our spacious suburban layout, with wide streets and ample free parking. Our driveways were made big enough to fit the wife's Sigma and the son's XU-1 Torana with the Monaro stowed safely in the garage.But soon we will no longer be able to afford keeping our big sixes, V8s and diesel-gulping four-wheel drives on the road: running even a small car is becoming a struggle. Australia has its own oil and gas stocks, but we are tied to the world price. Even our cheap, clean and relatively abundant liquid petroleum gas (LPG) is subject to the vagaries of the world market - the economic rationalist argument goes that if the LPG price was kept as low as it should be based on Australia's plentiful supplies, producers would export the gas instead for more money.So any time now, Australians are going to ponder putting their Falcons and Commodores in the classifieds and start thinking about using their country's public transport. And they will soon realise that by and large, it's woefully inadequate.Outside the big cities, there is no efficient way of getting around unless you have access to a car. Britons complain about the state of their public transport, but living in the UK, I am amazed by how small a British village can be while still having municipal bus services and a railway station, and by the speed of inter-urban trains.In my home state, Queensland, governments of the 1980s and 90s busily set about getting rid of what little public transport infrastructure we had in the countryside. They tore up railway lines to outlying towns, selling the tracks for scrap metal. In the rush to run all public services along corporate, profit-seeking lines, these rail routes had been declared much less efficient than the many gigantic road trains, B-doubles and semi-trailers pounding the highways of the country on cheap diesel. But now, with diesel roaring up towards two dollars a litre, ripping up those lines seems like it wasn't such a great idea. Furthermore, Queensland's rail lines are narrow gauge, whereas its nearest and more populous neighbour, New South Wales, uses standard gauge \u2013 a foot wider. Thus, both states are full of rail stock that cannot be taken across the border. There is a passenger service running on standard gauge between Brisbane and Sydney, but it takes all day or night to cover the 600 miles; that, combined with the cost of a ticket makes a carbon-spewing short-haul flight a no-brainer. Queensland does have beautiful electrified rail lines running from the economically vital coal mines to the ports, of course, and a \"high-speed\" passenger service up the coast \u2013 the tilt train, but it is a slow and expensive mode of travel compared with European equivalents. Brisbane, the capital of Queensland, has a passable suburban overground train service. But Toowoomba, a city less than 100 miles to the west, has no daily rail connection to Brisbane. You have to drive or take a privately operated coach to the big smoke.Pretty soon, then, car-loving Queenslanders and their interstate brethren are going to realise that Australia needs to spend billions of dollars over about 50 years to build a public transport network to meet international obligations on carbon emissions and to end dependence on the motor car.But of we will get bitten yet again by the timeless mantra of economic-rationalist governments: \"We can't do it without private-sector investment.\" It's a lie. We can, and we must. Huge distances and small population centres mean that public transport in Australia will never be profitable. Even if private investors were interested, while chipping in for the infrastructure, they would also take their cut \u2013 not to mention the endless private consultants and researchers along the way. The public would ultimately get less than it paid for, so the government might as well spend all the money on getting the job done itself.", "tags": ["Transport policy", "Australia news", "World news", "Motoring", "Money", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Warren Murray: Australia's beloved cars have become too expensive to run"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The long-haired man who runs the surf school is sitting outside his shop bemoaning the poor surf. He suggests it may not be the best day to experience the surf school (at $16.50 a day, it's the cheapest in Australia by about $30). Paying no heed to his warning, I pay up and head to the beach to meet the surf coach, in his fifties, grossly overweight with an enormous orb of a belly squeezed into a skin-tight zebra-print wet suit.Bearing in mind that he is supposed to be teaching our small group how to surf for the first time, it seems odd that he spends 20 minutes drawing complicated diagrams in the sand, mumbling about axis, trim and rip curls. It becomes increasingly apparent that he is struggling with long-term drug and alcohol abuse. Unfortunately for us, he has yet to divulge which way round the surfboards go and how we might stand up on one. An Israeli girl asks him politely to go over the basics. Baring his rotten teeth, he spits: \"This is a one size fits all lesson. You ask NO questions.\"With no further communication, he points us in the direction of the waves and goes to sulk under a tree. It is unclear whether he can see how poorly we fare in the difficult surf, or if he even cares. It is only when the entire group, battered, bruised and disgruntled, exit the water that he waddles out from the undergrowth and into the swell. He catches a few minor waves, raising his arms each time in victory. He has sensed that the group has dismissed him as a charlatan. So his victory is that, yes, he can actually surf; despite his physical deformities and drug-addled mind, he can still ride a wave. When he returns to the beach, I tell him that I had trouble reading the waves, trying to glean some iota of information before the lesson ends. He nods sagely and imparts the following wisdom: \"What you must do is look for the invisible energy in the ocean.\" He points off into the distance, mesmerised. I can't see the invisible energy. I look back at him and know I never will.", "tags": ["Australia holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Queensland, Australia"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The long-haired man who runs the surf school is sitting outside his shop bemoaning the poor surf. He suggests it may not be the best day to experience the surf school (at $16.50 a day, it's the cheapest in Australia by about $30). Paying no heed to his warning, I pay up and head to the beach to meet the surf coach, in his fifties, grossly overweight with an enormous orb of a belly squeezed into a skin-tight zebra-print wet suit.Bearing in mind that he is supposed to be teaching our small group how to surf for the first time, it seems odd that he spends 20 minutes drawing complicated diagrams in the sand, mumbling about axis, trim and rip curls. It becomes increasingly apparent that he is struggling with long-term drug and alcohol abuse. Unfortunately for us, he has yet to divulge which way round the surfboards go and how we might stand up on one. An Israeli girl asks him politely to go over the basics. Baring his rotten teeth, he spits: \"This is a one size fits all lesson. You ask NO questions.\"With no further communication, he points us in the direction of the waves and goes to sulk under a tree. It is unclear whether he can see how poorly we fare in the difficult surf, or if he even cares. It is only when the entire group, battered, bruised and disgruntled, exit the water that he waddles out from the undergrowth and into the swell. He catches a few minor waves, raising his arms each time in victory. He has sensed that the group has dismissed him as a charlatan. So his victory is that, yes, he can actually surf; despite his physical deformities and drug-addled mind, he can still ride a wave. When he returns to the beach, I tell him that I had trouble reading the waves, trying to glean some iota of information before the lesson ends. He nods sagely and imparts the following wisdom: \"What you must do is look for the invisible energy in the ocean.\" He points off into the distance, mesmerised. I can't see the invisible energy. I look back at him and know I never will.", "tags": ["Australia holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Queensland, Australia"},{"date": "2008-12-29T11:28:05Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The sniggering of the northern hemisphere's sophisticates was predictable enough. What, the Aussies were going to present the world with a cinematic spectacular that would not only capture the essence of life and love, but also define the character of their nation? Stand by for a giggle.Baz Luhrmann hasn't disappointed. In Australia, he's somehow managed to turn Hollywood's most alluring and elusive goddess into a charmless puppet. Her romance with the sexiest man alive is about as enthralling as a Vegemite sandwich. The best acting comes from the cattle, and the next best from the Never-Never desert.All of which will have come as no surprise to those who opined from the outset that the very idea of an Australian Gone With the Wind or African Queen was wholly ridiculous, an Australian Pearl Harbor even more so. Look what happens, they'll doubtless be thinking now, when colonials get ideas above their sheep station. The Ockers should get back sharpish to the likes of Mad Max and Crocodile Dundee, and in future remember their place.Well, that's one point of view. Nonetheless, in spite of the derision that Luhrmann's film has attracted, many who've seen it have found it oddly compelling. Could it, after all, perhaps have something to tell us? Some of the critics have complained that the film is composed almost entirely of Australian cliches. And indeed, dusty badlands, grizzled he-men, walkabout and even kangaroos are all present and correct. However, these are only the film's clothing. Its skeleton is constructed out of a quite different set of cliches.To define his country, Luhrmann has trawled not the Dreaming, but that other dreamscape far away on the other side of the Pacific. Australia, the movie, is a caricature Hollywood romance, a caricature Hollywood western and a caricature Hollywood war film. Even its vapid Aboriginal mysticism carries the smack of Tinseltown, rather than the unfathomable outback.Some might see this as inevitable. Australia has no culture of its own, they'd say, so it must clamber on the back of its Anglo-Saxon heritage. Others might detect the fabled Cultural Cringe \u2013 Australia can't believe in its own success unless it's expressed in terms set by its imperial begetters.Whatever. The Lucky Country has no need to defer to the rest of the anglo-sphere. Australian English is the world's most vigorous. When they choose to, Australians can win the Booker and create world-class films aplenty. Aussie actors excel in Hollywood itself. Today, the world's real Citizen Kane happens to hail from Melbourne.Nonetheless, Australian creative types continue to be consigned more often than they deserve to the edges of the stage. In Britain, Clive James, a formidable poet, is treated as a comic turn. Kylie Minogue, one of the great performers of our age, is noted mainly for the pertness of her bottom. Germaine Greer, one of our few original thinkers, is written off by some as a wacky eccentric.However, marginal status seems to provide the unregarded Aussies with a clearer view of the game. Australians have become perpetual jesters at the anglophone cultural court. Wry and self-deprecating, they're the wise fools who can shatter the pretensions of their supposed betters with no more than an earthy quip.Luhrmann's film can be seen as just such an Aussie joke, if an unintended one. You can view it as a kind of unwitting Tropic Thunder, minus Ben Stiller's mind-numbing self-indulgence and self-regard. Its innocence helps it highlight not just the methods of Hollywood's myth-makers, but also the aspirations and delusions that they feed on and exploit.Few of us are likely to lose ourselves in Luhrmann's improbable tale. Many will remain unmoved by its romantic passion, unstirred by its racial guilt, unshocked by its villainy and unscared by its enemy action. Yet, its shameless aggregation of so many such elements invites us to reappraise the sentiments that such cinematic staples are so often deployed to evoke.Plenty of more lauded and almost equally expensive movies have done less. Australia isn't Gone with the Wind, but it is indeed an achievement, if not in quite the way its creator may have intended.It's the national epic that Sir Les Patterson might have funded, but like Sir Les it's a hell of a laugh in an enlightening kind of a way. If the joke's partly on Australia itself, well, even the country's worst enemies have never said that the Aussies can't take a jest.Bonzer, Baz.", "tags": ["Baz Luhrmann"], "title": "David Cox: Good on yer, Australia"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The long-haired man who runs the surf school is sitting outside his shop bemoaning the poor surf. He suggests it may not be the best day to experience the surf school (at $16.50 a day, it's the cheapest in Australia by about $30). Paying no heed to his warning, I pay up and head to the beach to meet the surf coach, in his fifties, grossly overweight with an enormous orb of a belly squeezed into a skin-tight zebra-print wet suit.Bearing in mind that he is supposed to be teaching our small group how to surf for the first time, it seems odd that he spends 20 minutes drawing complicated diagrams in the sand, mumbling about axis, trim and rip curls. It becomes increasingly apparent that he is struggling with long-term drug and alcohol abuse. Unfortunately for us, he has yet to divulge which way round the surfboards go and how we might stand up on one. An Israeli girl asks him politely to go over the basics. Baring his rotten teeth, he spits: \"This is a one size fits all lesson. You ask NO questions.\"With no further communication, he points us in the direction of the waves and goes to sulk under a tree. It is unclear whether he can see how poorly we fare in the difficult surf, or if he even cares. It is only when the entire group, battered, bruised and disgruntled, exit the water that he waddles out from the undergrowth and into the swell. He catches a few minor waves, raising his arms each time in victory. He has sensed that the group has dismissed him as a charlatan. So his victory is that, yes, he can actually surf; despite his physical deformities and drug-addled mind, he can still ride a wave. When he returns to the beach, I tell him that I had trouble reading the waves, trying to glean some iota of information before the lesson ends. He nods sagely and imparts the following wisdom: \"What you must do is look for the invisible energy in the ocean.\" He points off into the distance, mesmerised. I can't see the invisible energy. I look back at him and know I never will.", "tags": ["Australia holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Queensland, Australia"},{"date": "2008-12-29T11:28:05Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The sniggering of the northern hemisphere's sophisticates was predictable enough. What, the Aussies were going to present the world with a cinematic spectacular that would not only capture the essence of life and love, but also define the character of their nation? Stand by for a giggle.Baz Luhrmann hasn't disappointed. In Australia, he's somehow managed to turn Hollywood's most alluring and elusive goddess into a charmless puppet. Her romance with the sexiest man alive is about as enthralling as a Vegemite sandwich. The best acting comes from the cattle, and the next best from the Never-Never desert.All of which will have come as no surprise to those who opined from the outset that the very idea of an Australian Gone With the Wind or African Queen was wholly ridiculous, an Australian Pearl Harbor even more so. Look what happens, they'll doubtless be thinking now, when colonials get ideas above their sheep station. The Ockers should get back sharpish to the likes of Mad Max and Crocodile Dundee, and in future remember their place.Well, that's one point of view. Nonetheless, in spite of the derision that Luhrmann's film has attracted, many who've seen it have found it oddly compelling. Could it, after all, perhaps have something to tell us? Some of the critics have complained that the film is composed almost entirely of Australian cliches. And indeed, dusty badlands, grizzled he-men, walkabout and even kangaroos are all present and correct. However, these are only the film's clothing. Its skeleton is constructed out of a quite different set of cliches.To define his country, Luhrmann has trawled not the Dreaming, but that other dreamscape far away on the other side of the Pacific. Australia, the movie, is a caricature Hollywood romance, a caricature Hollywood western and a caricature Hollywood war film. Even its vapid Aboriginal mysticism carries the smack of Tinseltown, rather than the unfathomable outback.Some might see this as inevitable. Australia has no culture of its own, they'd say, so it must clamber on the back of its Anglo-Saxon heritage. Others might detect the fabled Cultural Cringe \u2013 Australia can't believe in its own success unless it's expressed in terms set by its imperial begetters.Whatever. The Lucky Country has no need to defer to the rest of the anglo-sphere. Australian English is the world's most vigorous. When they choose to, Australians can win the Booker and create world-class films aplenty. Aussie actors excel in Hollywood itself. Today, the world's real Citizen Kane happens to hail from Melbourne.Nonetheless, Australian creative types continue to be consigned more often than they deserve to the edges of the stage. In Britain, Clive James, a formidable poet, is treated as a comic turn. Kylie Minogue, one of the great performers of our age, is noted mainly for the pertness of her bottom. Germaine Greer, one of our few original thinkers, is written off by some as a wacky eccentric.However, marginal status seems to provide the unregarded Aussies with a clearer view of the game. Australians have become perpetual jesters at the anglophone cultural court. Wry and self-deprecating, they're the wise fools who can shatter the pretensions of their supposed betters with no more than an earthy quip.Luhrmann's film can be seen as just such an Aussie joke, if an unintended one. You can view it as a kind of unwitting Tropic Thunder, minus Ben Stiller's mind-numbing self-indulgence and self-regard. Its innocence helps it highlight not just the methods of Hollywood's myth-makers, but also the aspirations and delusions that they feed on and exploit.Few of us are likely to lose ourselves in Luhrmann's improbable tale. Many will remain unmoved by its romantic passion, unstirred by its racial guilt, unshocked by its villainy and unscared by its enemy action. Yet, its shameless aggregation of so many such elements invites us to reappraise the sentiments that such cinematic staples are so often deployed to evoke.Plenty of more lauded and almost equally expensive movies have done less. Australia isn't Gone with the Wind, but it is indeed an achievement, if not in quite the way its creator may have intended.It's the national epic that Sir Les Patterson might have funded, but like Sir Les it's a hell of a laugh in an enlightening kind of a way. If the joke's partly on Australia itself, well, even the country's worst enemies have never said that the Aussies can't take a jest.Bonzer, Baz.", "tags": ["Baz Luhrmann"], "title": "David Cox: Good on yer, Australia"},{"date": "2008-12-08T09:08:01Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's government began to hand out more than A$8bn (\u00a33.6bn) in cash to consumers ahead of Christmas, but some analysts say the money may not be enough to stop the country from sliding into recession.The cash splurge comes after data showed the economy barely grew at all in the September quarter, when gross domestic product rose just 0.1%, its lowest pace in eight years, and with unemployment set to rise due to the global slowdown.TD Securities senior strategist Joshua Williamson warned the spending package may not be enough to lock in long-term growth.\"As the package is a temporary measure, any growth on the consumption side of the national accounts in the December quarter from the package will unwind just as quickly in the first quarter of 2009.\"The cash for families and pensioners is part of a A$10.4bn economic stimulus package announced on October 14 and aimed at boosting confidence and retail sales.The payments will bring more relief to consumers after the central bank slashed interest rates to a six-and-a-half year low last week and left the door open for more cuts to save its economy from recession.Prime minister Kevin Rudd wants people to spend the money in the run up to Christmas, saying the spending will help protect jobs and prevent the economy from slowing down further.\"If the government doesn't empower consumers at a time like this, in the midst of global financial crisis, then in fact we will have even greater challenges ahead,\" he said.Underlining the depressed state of the economy, data showed last week that vehicle sales drove off a cliff in November as skittish consumers shied away from big purchases, which, together with more evidence of the poor state of the housing market, points to a miserable fourth quarter for consumption.A survey showed on Monday that Australian businesses cut back sharply on job advertisements in November as the global financial crisis intensified, pointing to an inevitable rise in the number of those out of a job and more rate cuts.The survey from Australia and New Zealand Banking Corp showed job advertising in newspapers sank 12% in November, after a similar drop the month before. The combined fall was the biggest in the 30-year history of the series and fuelled worries official data on employment on Thursday would show a reversal in what has been one of the most resilient parts of the economy.\"Recently, the labour market has surprised with its strength,\" Nomura economist Janu Chan said, adding that firms were cutting workers' hours rather than firing them.\"The slowdown in domestic demand should, however, inevitably lead to further weakening in job growth and a rise in the unemployment rate.\"The jobs data is expected to show that 15,000 jobs disappeared in November after a surprise jump of 34,300 in October when firms took on thousands of part-time workers.Australia and New Zealand Banking Group plans to cut another 400 jobs by the end of this year, bringing the total to around 800 as it struggles to cope with the global crisis, newspapers reported on Saturday.The government's cash payments worth A$8.7bn, or about 0.9% of GDP, give 2 million families A$1,000 for each child, and give four million pensioners more than A$1,000 each. Payments will be made over two weeks.Treasurer Wayne Swan said the move would boost GDP by between 0.5 and 1%, and create up to 75,000 jobs.\"This package is a substantial boost to our economy,\" Swan said, adding the he would keep all options open if further action was needed in 2009 to keep the economy growing. \"We will assess that as we go through the early part of next year.\"The government said it expects to pay out A$4bn by Thursday, which businesses hope will provide them with a pre-Christmas boost.\"If people are saving for a rainy day, I can tell them it is pouring outside,\" Australian Retailers Association executive director Richard Evans told Australian radio.", "tags": ["Global recession", "Business", "Australia news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia hands consumers \u00a33.6bn"},{"date": "2009-03-18T11:37:12Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Australian government is to outlaw excessive \"golden handshake\" payments amid outrage over huge bonuses collected by company executives.Under new legislation, termination payouts will require shareholders' approval, and curbs on severance pay could be linked to job losses, Australia's treasurer, Wayne Swan, saidtoday.\"Golden handshakes, particularly when companies have not performed or where workers are being retrenched, are simply a means of rewarding failure and are absolutely unacceptable,\" Swan told the Australian parliament. \"So we are sending a very clear message to corporate Australia \u2013 your actions are under scrutiny.\"Current laws allow company directors to receive termination payments of up to seven times their total annual remuneration, which is often much more than base pay, before shareholder approval is required. In some recent cases, executives have received A$15m (\u00a37.1m) despite company losses, falling share prices and staff cuts.The government's crackdown comes amid outrage in the United States after insurer AIG granted huge bonuses to employees who brought the giant firm to the brink of collapse.There have been similar protests in Australia following revelations that underwear maker Pacific Brands,\u00a0which last month cut 1,850 jobs, paid its former chief executive Paul Moore A$5.8m when he stood down in 2008.Swan called the payouts \"frankly sickening\".\"What we have seen for the past decade, under laws we have inherited from the former government, is the retirement gold watch replaced by a truckload of gold bullion,\" said Nick Sherry, Australia's corporate governance minister.\"That's why we have decided to take some strong and decisive action and carry out major reform in this area of golden handshakes,\" he told reporters at a press conference in Canberra.The Sydney Morning Herald reported in February that Sol Trujillo, chief executive of telecommunications firm Telstra, would receive a A$40m payout in cash and shares when he left the post on 30\u00a0June. But Telstra said todayhe would only receive a one-off payout of A$3m upon departure.The Australian Shareholders' Association (ASA) predicted that \"before the ink is dry on the legislation, there will be an army of lawyers and remuneration consultants looking for ways to avoid it\".\"Shareholders are being given the final say on golden handshakes because of boards' chronic failure to act,\" said Stuart Wilson, ASA chief executive.The move will extend the rules to cover a wider range of executives and will place criminal penalties on those who flout the law. The government's productivity commission will also hold a nine-month inquiry into executive remuneration and bonuses. \u00a0", "tags": ["Executive pay and bonuses", "Australia news", "AIG", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia to curb golden handshakes"},{"date": "2009-03-18T11:37:12Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Australian government is to outlaw excessive \"golden handshake\" payments amid outrage over huge bonuses collected by company executives.Under new legislation, termination payouts will require shareholders' approval, and curbs on severance pay could be linked to job losses, Australia's treasurer, Wayne Swan, saidtoday.\"Golden handshakes, particularly when companies have not performed or where workers are being retrenched, are simply a means of rewarding failure and are absolutely unacceptable,\" Swan told the Australian parliament. \"So we are sending a very clear message to corporate Australia \u2013 your actions are under scrutiny.\"Current laws allow company directors to receive termination payments of up to seven times their total annual remuneration, which is often much more than base pay, before shareholder approval is required. In some recent cases, executives have received A$15m (\u00a37.1m) despite company losses, falling share prices and staff cuts.The government's crackdown comes amid outrage in the United States after insurer AIG granted huge bonuses to employees who brought the giant firm to the brink of collapse.There have been similar protests in Australia following revelations that underwear maker Pacific Brands,\u00a0which last month cut 1,850 jobs, paid its former chief executive Paul Moore A$5.8m when he stood down in 2008.Swan called the payouts \"frankly sickening\".\"What we have seen for the past decade, under laws we have inherited from the former government, is the retirement gold watch replaced by a truckload of gold bullion,\" said Nick Sherry, Australia's corporate governance minister.\"That's why we have decided to take some strong and decisive action and carry out major reform in this area of golden handshakes,\" he told reporters at a press conference in Canberra.The Sydney Morning Herald reported in February that Sol Trujillo, chief executive of telecommunications firm Telstra, would receive a A$40m payout in cash and shares when he left the post on 30\u00a0June. But Telstra said todayhe would only receive a one-off payout of A$3m upon departure.The Australian Shareholders' Association (ASA) predicted that \"before the ink is dry on the legislation, there will be an army of lawyers and remuneration consultants looking for ways to avoid it\".\"Shareholders are being given the final say on golden handshakes because of boards' chronic failure to act,\" said Stuart Wilson, ASA chief executive.The move will extend the rules to cover a wider range of executives and will place criminal penalties on those who flout the law. The government's productivity commission will also hold a nine-month inquiry into executive remuneration and bonuses. \u00a0", "tags": ["Executive pay and bonuses", "Australia news", "AIG", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia to curb golden handshakes"},{"date": "2009-02-02T12:43:55Z", "country": "australia", "content": "As the Arctic freeze sweeps Britain, a record-breaking heatwave in Australia has claimed the lives of 37 people and sparked bushfiresthat have destroyed 29 homes.South Australia and Victoria have been the worst affected, enduring six consecutive days of temperatures reaching 113F (45C).The extreme conditions\u00a0in Melbourne caused an electricity substation to explode, shutting down the city's train network, trapping people in lifts and resulting in thousands of people being treated for heat exhaustion.Authorities said the unrelenting\u00a0heat has been linked to at least 37 deaths, most of them elderly people. They are warning of more deaths as the stifling summer temperatures continue.The worst heatwave in a century has been blamed for a series of bushfires raging across the country. In the Latrobe Valley, east of Melbourne, a blaze destroyed 29 homes last weekend.Firefighters in Victoria were continuing to battle more than 600 separate blazes last night, many of them suspected to have been deliberately lit.The Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, warned that the country was currently a \"tinder box\" and expressed sympathy for victims of the crisis and their families.\"This is a very, very dangerous time of the year,\" he said.Many Melbourne residents fled the city last weekend, seeking refuge in Sydney where the temperature was a much cooler 86F (30C).The weather bureau says the crisis is set to reach Sydney by the end of the week, with the mercury forecast to hit 108F (42C).The South Australia premier, Mike Rann, said the extreme weather has matched a record set in 1908.\"Not for 100 years has it been more than six days of 40 degrees or more,\" said Matt Collopy, from the South Australian Weather Bureau.Melbourne recorded its third consecutive day of temperatures above 109F (43C) on Friday, the first time since record-keeping began in 1855.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Weather", "UK news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia heatwave claims 37 lives"},{"date": "2009-06-03T14:43:07Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia has defied the global downturn and saw its economy grow in the first three months of the year.Australia's economy grew by 0.4% in the first quarter of the year as the best trade performance in almost half a century helped offset a slump in business and housing investment, the Bureau of Statistics in Sydney said. Analysts had expected a rise of 0.1%. The economy contracted by a revised 0.6% in the final three months of 2008.The country has fared better than most during the financial crisis, thanks to quick and deep interest rate cuts, hefty stimulus spending and a solid contribution from commodity-based exports.Kevin Rudd, the prime minister, whose government doled out up to A$950 (\u00a3470) to millions of households as part of a A$42bn stimulus package in February, welcomed the news. But he cautioned that the economy \"is not out of the woods yet\".\"This is the worst global recession in three-quarters of a century,\" he said. \"We will face higher unemployment in the Australian economy and we're not guaranteed that we won't see negative growth in the future.\"Sukhy Ubhi, international economist at consultants Capital Economics, said: \"Overall, the economy was saved from a technical recession thanks to the unexpectedly big improvement in net trade. Admittedly, the resilience of Australian consumer spending also came as a surprise, especially given the sharp increase in the household savings rate at the end of last year. But the deterioration in the labour and housing markets is still in its infancy, indicating that the worst for consumers is yet to come.\"", "tags": ["Global recession", "Credit crunch", "Australia news", "Economics", "Business", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia defies economic global downturn"},{"date": "2009-06-03T14:43:07Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia has defied the global downturn and saw its economy grow in the first three months of the year.Australia's economy grew by 0.4% in the first quarter of the year as the best trade performance in almost half a century helped offset a slump in business and housing investment, the Bureau of Statistics in Sydney said. Analysts had expected a rise of 0.1%. The economy contracted by a revised 0.6% in the final three months of 2008.The country has fared better than most during the financial crisis, thanks to quick and deep interest rate cuts, hefty stimulus spending and a solid contribution from commodity-based exports.Kevin Rudd, the prime minister, whose government doled out up to A$950 (\u00a3470) to millions of households as part of a A$42bn stimulus package in February, welcomed the news. But he cautioned that the economy \"is not out of the woods yet\".\"This is the worst global recession in three-quarters of a century,\" he said. \"We will face higher unemployment in the Australian economy and we're not guaranteed that we won't see negative growth in the future.\"Sukhy Ubhi, international economist at consultants Capital Economics, said: \"Overall, the economy was saved from a technical recession thanks to the unexpectedly big improvement in net trade. Admittedly, the resilience of Australian consumer spending also came as a surprise, especially given the sharp increase in the household savings rate at the end of last year. But the deterioration in the labour and housing markets is still in its infancy, indicating that the worst for consumers is yet to come.\"", "tags": ["Global recession", "Credit crunch", "Australia news", "Economics", "Business", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia defies economic global downturn"},{"date": "2009-05-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Further torrential rains and strong winds left one man dead and forced thousands to flee their homes on Australia's eastern coast. New South Wales state police said that the body of a 70-year-old man was found on Friday, near where floodwaters had submerged his car in Coffs Harbour in the northern part of the state. A man died in Queensland on Wednesday when a sheet of metal blew off a building and crashed through his office window.Authorities have declared parts of coastal Queensland and New South Wales disaster zones and ordered the closure of all beaches between Sydney and the Queensland coast.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Australia weather"], "title": "Thousands flee storms in Australia"},{"date": "2009-06-03T14:43:07Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia has defied the global downturn and saw its economy grow in the first three months of the year.Australia's economy grew by 0.4% in the first quarter of the year as the best trade performance in almost half a century helped offset a slump in business and housing investment, the Bureau of Statistics in Sydney said. Analysts had expected a rise of 0.1%. The economy contracted by a revised 0.6% in the final three months of 2008.The country has fared better than most during the financial crisis, thanks to quick and deep interest rate cuts, hefty stimulus spending and a solid contribution from commodity-based exports.Kevin Rudd, the prime minister, whose government doled out up to A$950 (\u00a3470) to millions of households as part of a A$42bn stimulus package in February, welcomed the news. But he cautioned that the economy \"is not out of the woods yet\".\"This is the worst global recession in three-quarters of a century,\" he said. \"We will face higher unemployment in the Australian economy and we're not guaranteed that we won't see negative growth in the future.\"Sukhy Ubhi, international economist at consultants Capital Economics, said: \"Overall, the economy was saved from a technical recession thanks to the unexpectedly big improvement in net trade. Admittedly, the resilience of Australian consumer spending also came as a surprise, especially given the sharp increase in the household savings rate at the end of last year. But the deterioration in the labour and housing markets is still in its infancy, indicating that the worst for consumers is yet to come.\"", "tags": ["Global recession", "Credit crunch", "Australia news", "Economics", "Business", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia defies economic global downturn"},{"date": "2009-05-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Further torrential rains and strong winds left one man dead and forced thousands to flee their homes on Australia's eastern coast. New South Wales state police said that the body of a 70-year-old man was found on Friday, near where floodwaters had submerged his car in Coffs Harbour in the northern part of the state. A man died in Queensland on Wednesday when a sheet of metal blew off a building and crashed through his office window.Authorities have declared parts of coastal Queensland and New South Wales disaster zones and ordered the closure of all beaches between Sydney and the Queensland coast.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Australia weather"], "title": "Thousands flee storms in Australia"},{"date": "2009-05-05T16:40:57Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's government has postponed taxing polluting industries by a year until 2011 because of the economic slowdown and concerns it would hurt business, the prime minister said today.But in a bid for support from the opposition Greens party, the prime minister, Kevin Rudd, said he would seek to increase the planned carbon emissions cuts when his proposal is presented to the senate for a votenext month.\"The worst global recession since the Great Depression means we must adapt our climate change measures but not abandon them,\" Rudd said.Under the revised plan, Rudd said Australia would cut more deeply into its carbon emissions by 2020 if the United Nations reaches a new pact on cutting global pollution at a summit in December in Copenhagen.Originally, the emissions-cutting target was set at up to 15% below 2000 levels by 2020. The new target announced yesterday is 25% if the Copenhagen summit can agree on tough global targets.Without the changes, Rudd's emissions trading scheme faced almost certain defeat by opposition lawmakers. The changes give him hope of negotiating an agreement with opposition parties in the senate, where the ruling centre-left Labor party is outnumbered by the main opposition Liberal party.The Liberals have argued that the scheme should be delayed because of the economic slowdown. Industry groups want the scheme put off for three years.The Greens said it would accept a 25% carbon reduction target, after earlier calling for 40%. Netting the support of the Greens plus two independent lawmakers would give the Labor-led bloc a majority.Under the new government proposals, the price of a ton of carbon pollution would be fixed at A$10 (\u00a34.90) for a year after the scheme goes into effect in July 2011. The number of permits, which businesses would purchase in the form of a tax, would be unlimited for the first year.The original proposal called for the government to issue a limited number of permits to create a ton of carbon, which companies could buy and sell on a national market.Ed Miliband, the energy and climate secretary, said: \"I very much welcome Australia's more ambitious targets for 2020. This will provide significant momentum towards a global deal in Copenhagen. We need all developed countries to set ambitious targets to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 2020.\"", "tags": ["Carbon offsetting", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Australia news", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Kevin Rudd", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia delays carbon trading scheme"},{"date": "2009-06-03T14:43:07Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia has defied the global downturn and saw its economy grow in the first three months of the year.Australia's economy grew by 0.4% in the first quarter of the year as the best trade performance in almost half a century helped offset a slump in business and housing investment, the Bureau of Statistics in Sydney said. Analysts had expected a rise of 0.1%. The economy contracted by a revised 0.6% in the final three months of 2008.The country has fared better than most during the financial crisis, thanks to quick and deep interest rate cuts, hefty stimulus spending and a solid contribution from commodity-based exports.Kevin Rudd, the prime minister, whose government doled out up to A$950 (\u00a3470) to millions of households as part of a A$42bn stimulus package in February, welcomed the news. But he cautioned that the economy \"is not out of the woods yet\".\"This is the worst global recession in three-quarters of a century,\" he said. \"We will face higher unemployment in the Australian economy and we're not guaranteed that we won't see negative growth in the future.\"Sukhy Ubhi, international economist at consultants Capital Economics, said: \"Overall, the economy was saved from a technical recession thanks to the unexpectedly big improvement in net trade. Admittedly, the resilience of Australian consumer spending also came as a surprise, especially given the sharp increase in the household savings rate at the end of last year. But the deterioration in the labour and housing markets is still in its infancy, indicating that the worst for consumers is yet to come.\"", "tags": ["Global recession", "Credit crunch", "Australia news", "Economics", "Business", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia defies economic global downturn"},{"date": "2009-05-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Further torrential rains and strong winds left one man dead and forced thousands to flee their homes on Australia's eastern coast. New South Wales state police said that the body of a 70-year-old man was found on Friday, near where floodwaters had submerged his car in Coffs Harbour in the northern part of the state. A man died in Queensland on Wednesday when a sheet of metal blew off a building and crashed through his office window.Authorities have declared parts of coastal Queensland and New South Wales disaster zones and ordered the closure of all beaches between Sydney and the Queensland coast.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Australia weather"], "title": "Thousands flee storms in Australia"},{"date": "2009-05-05T16:40:57Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's government has postponed taxing polluting industries by a year until 2011 because of the economic slowdown and concerns it would hurt business, the prime minister said today.But in a bid for support from the opposition Greens party, the prime minister, Kevin Rudd, said he would seek to increase the planned carbon emissions cuts when his proposal is presented to the senate for a votenext month.\"The worst global recession since the Great Depression means we must adapt our climate change measures but not abandon them,\" Rudd said.Under the revised plan, Rudd said Australia would cut more deeply into its carbon emissions by 2020 if the United Nations reaches a new pact on cutting global pollution at a summit in December in Copenhagen.Originally, the emissions-cutting target was set at up to 15% below 2000 levels by 2020. The new target announced yesterday is 25% if the Copenhagen summit can agree on tough global targets.Without the changes, Rudd's emissions trading scheme faced almost certain defeat by opposition lawmakers. The changes give him hope of negotiating an agreement with opposition parties in the senate, where the ruling centre-left Labor party is outnumbered by the main opposition Liberal party.The Liberals have argued that the scheme should be delayed because of the economic slowdown. Industry groups want the scheme put off for three years.The Greens said it would accept a 25% carbon reduction target, after earlier calling for 40%. Netting the support of the Greens plus two independent lawmakers would give the Labor-led bloc a majority.Under the new government proposals, the price of a ton of carbon pollution would be fixed at A$10 (\u00a34.90) for a year after the scheme goes into effect in July 2011. The number of permits, which businesses would purchase in the form of a tax, would be unlimited for the first year.The original proposal called for the government to issue a limited number of permits to create a ton of carbon, which companies could buy and sell on a national market.Ed Miliband, the energy and climate secretary, said: \"I very much welcome Australia's more ambitious targets for 2020. This will provide significant momentum towards a global deal in Copenhagen. We need all developed countries to set ambitious targets to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 2020.\"", "tags": ["Carbon offsetting", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Australia news", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Kevin Rudd", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia delays carbon trading scheme"},{"date": "2009-04-29T10:52:02Z", "country": "australia", "content": "AustraliaBy Paul MacInnes (with apologies to Stuart Beattie, Baz Luhrmann, Ronald Harwood and Richard Flanagan)EXT. THE OUTBACK \u2013 DAYThe beautiful and thin LADY SARAH ASHLEY and her lover/inspiration/ cowherd DROVER are outside their successful farm FARAWAY DOWNS. DINGOS, KANGAROOS and KOALA are frolicking by the BILLABONGDROVER (singing gaily)There's no business like cow business, like no business I know! Everything about it is appealing! Everything the traffic (of premium livestock) will allow!LADY SARAH(giggling)Oh my goodness, you're singing a song, you ruggedly handsome man of the outback with whom my fortunes are intertwined! You couldn't be butcher if you tried!DROVERI'm not butcher, I'm Drover! (laughs heartily, then starts chopping some LOGS with his TOP off)LADY SARAH (giggling)Oh sir! Why, I'm blushing! Oh how I wish this were a musical! It would be so much fun!DROVER stops chopping. He stands erect, the sweat DRIPPING down his muscular, honed BODY. His EYES, like burnished EMERALDS, fix LADY SARAH with a stern glare that cuts to your very SOUL, taking all your CLOTHES off in the processDROVERSarah, stop this madness now. This movie could never be a musical, no matter how much you, I, or indeed the director might have wished it.LADY SARAH (now serious)But why?DROVERBecause if it were a musical, this movie could not address the terrible plight of the Aborigines.Huge storm CLOUDS swarm over the sky. They are bright and full of contrast, almost as if somebody had spent five weeks souping them up on a COMPUTER. The camera pulls back from the clouds. It retreats 500 miles to show both the sheer scale of Australia and also that this movie has a budget of 130 million American dollars. It then zooms in once again, on to the beautiful face of an innocent Aboriginal boy. His name is NULLA. He's magic.NULLAI'm not a white fella or a brown fella. I'm a creamy fella. I'm the type of fella Baz Luhrmann would like to represent me country, Australia. Because if we try we can all get on together, see? And if we all get on, there's nothing wrong with purloining Aboriginal myth to brighten up an otherwise formulaic western in the mould of Honda.PAN across the immense DESERT. An old Aboriginal MAN is standing on one LEG at the top of a CLIFF. CLOSE-UP on his FACE. He is incredibly wise and would never hurt a FLY (which is the lead baddie's main hobby). His name is KING GEORGEKING GEORGE (singing directly at Nulla, hundreds of miles away)You tell 'em mate! Stick it to the white fella! I bloody love you!KING GEORGE becomes overexcited and falls over. Time moves on and, for no especial reason, we're suddenly in the middle of the second world war. The JAPANESE are attacking Darwin and DROVER is saving scores of Aboriginal CHILDREN. Alongside is his best Aboriginal friend, MAGARRI. CGI gunsmoke is all around.DROVERWe're being overrun by the Japs!MAGARRIYou go Drover! Take the kids back to safety! I'll hold off the Japs! And, inevitably, die ...DROVERThis reminds me of a song from Oklahoma! \"It's a scandal. It's an outrage! On our manhood it's a blot! Where is the leader who will save us, and be the first man to be shot?\"MAGARRISo do you want me to hold off the Japs and, inevitably, die then or not?DROVERYes, please, my boon chum. After all who would you want to raise a clan of abandoned Aboriginal children? An Aborigine? Or a hunky white stockman with the grace of a ballet dancer!DROVER JUMPS into the air and performs a beautiful PIROUETTEC'mon kids! Let's go! Last one to the scary thin lady is a croc sandwich!The sound of MAGARRI being mercilessly executed echoes briefly, only to be replaced with beautiful birdsong. The clouds clear, the sun shines, it is the DAWN of a BRIGHT TOMORROW.", "tags": ["Baz Luhrmann", "Hugh Jackman", "Nicole Kidman", "Period and historical", "Film", "Culture"], "title": "Baz Luhrmann's Australia: epic tosh"},{"date": "2009-09-23T06:12:51Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Storms of red dust have produced a glowing orange sky over much of Australia's east coast as the country experiences freak weather conditions.The Sydney Opera House turned orange, flights at Sydney and Brisbane airports were delayed, building sites shut down, workers choked and emergency departments were flooded with calls in the worst dust storm to hit Australia in 70 years.On Sydney harbour, the thick red air cut visibility to less than 100 metres and shrouded the city's iconic bridge in a ghostly hue. One commuter, forced to catch the bus to the city because ferries were cancelled, took the opportunity to photograph the Armageddon-like scene.\"I woke up and there was this unbelievable golden hue,\" Alex Wagstaff told a Sydney newspaper.\"It is really interesting light, it's going to be quite a challenge.\"For many commuters it was chaos. Ferries were suspended and the M5 tunnel, a major road into the city, was closed.At Sydney airport, where visibility was cut to 400 metres, flights were cancelled while several international flights were diverted to Melbourne, where flights were also delayed, as they were at Brisbane airport in Queensland.A weather official at the NSW meteorology bureau, Barry Hanstrum, said the storm was \"one of the worst, if not the worst\".\"An event like this is extremely rare,\" he said.As dust blanketed the east coast last night, heavy rains lashed Adelaide in the nation's south, flooding streets.At dawn, two tremors shook Melbourne. Later in the day hailstones as big as cricket balls pelted parts of New South Wales. Heavy rain is expected to follow and flash-flood warnings have been issued.While residents in the south brace for rain, Queenslanders are preparing for fires to erupt with the unseasonally dry weather in the far north where firefighters battled several blazes yesterday.The bureau of meteorology said it was the worst dust storm since the 1940s, with particle pollution up to 10 times worse than the previous record. Another dust storm is predicted in the next day or two.Health officials were urging people to stay inside as Sydney's air was expected to remain choked with particles for up to three more days.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia engulfed by dust storms"},{"date": "2009-12-27T00:05:35Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The experts say that the fire on Black Saturday was travelling at 145km per hour. I can testify to that because I was doing 140 in my Ute when I got to the hill outside Marysville that afternoon, and it was dumping spot fires as big as my house in front of me\u2026 kaboom, kaboom, kaboom!I was on my way back from a meeting in nearby Narbethong, and I'd seen cars scattered at an intersection like there had been an accident. I looked over my shoulder and the whole Black Range mountain was on fire. The flames were 130ft high. That's when I put my foot down.As soon as I got home, I removed anything that might be flammable from outside my house and started the sprinklers. They weren't working very well because everyone in Marysville was drawing water. I emptied all the bins and filled them from the taps. I filled every bucket I could find.By 5pm the sky was so black I had to use the torch. There was a roar like being behind a jumbo jet. It felt like the end of the world, but I had testicular cancer last year and I thought, \"I beat the cancer, so I can beat the fire.\" I went down to my best mate Glen Fiske's house where his wife Liz and son Dalton were, and told them to evacuate. She said, \"No Bruce, I'm fine.\"At six o'clock the first front hit. It suddenly went from pitch black to the brightest light you've ever seen. The back of the house caught fire. I was darting in and out as quickly as I could with buckets, because I was mindful of the heat. Then the mulch in the front garden bed caught fire. I'm still going around with the torch, a bucket, a hanky tied to my face, putting all the flames out.The fire front went through the town up on to Mount Strickland, then there was a wind change and it came back. The wind was unbelievable. I was up on the roof of the veranda putting out a fire when the ladder blew down. I scarpered down the drainpipe and rang Liz again. I got young Dalton. He said, \"My knees are rattling, man.\" I said, \"Don't worry, mine are, too. You've got to be a big, brave man for your mum, mate,\" and he said, \"I don't know if I can.\" I said, \"Of course you can. As soon as this front has passed I'll be down there.\"I ran to Glen and Liz's house after that front had gone, but it was a fireball. I'd hoped they'd escaped on foot and went looking for them at the village sports oval, where the locals who didn't evacuate were sheltering. They weren't there. I went back home and laid on my bed.At first light, my son Jared found Liz and Dalton's remains in what was left of their bathroom. Thirty-eight people died in Marysville on Black Saturday. There were so many bodies that Liz and Dalton's weren't able to be removed for four days.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "2009 in review: Australian bushfires"},{"date": "2009-12-27T00:05:35Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The experts say that the fire on Black Saturday was travelling at 145km per hour. I can testify to that because I was doing 140 in my Ute when I got to the hill outside Marysville that afternoon, and it was dumping spot fires as big as my house in front of me\u2026 kaboom, kaboom, kaboom!I was on my way back from a meeting in nearby Narbethong, and I'd seen cars scattered at an intersection like there had been an accident. I looked over my shoulder and the whole Black Range mountain was on fire. The flames were 130ft high. That's when I put my foot down.As soon as I got home, I removed anything that might be flammable from outside my house and started the sprinklers. They weren't working very well because everyone in Marysville was drawing water. I emptied all the bins and filled them from the taps. I filled every bucket I could find.By 5pm the sky was so black I had to use the torch. There was a roar like being behind a jumbo jet. It felt like the end of the world, but I had testicular cancer last year and I thought, \"I beat the cancer, so I can beat the fire.\" I went down to my best mate Glen Fiske's house where his wife Liz and son Dalton were, and told them to evacuate. She said, \"No Bruce, I'm fine.\"At six o'clock the first front hit. It suddenly went from pitch black to the brightest light you've ever seen. The back of the house caught fire. I was darting in and out as quickly as I could with buckets, because I was mindful of the heat. Then the mulch in the front garden bed caught fire. I'm still going around with the torch, a bucket, a hanky tied to my face, putting all the flames out.The fire front went through the town up on to Mount Strickland, then there was a wind change and it came back. The wind was unbelievable. I was up on the roof of the veranda putting out a fire when the ladder blew down. I scarpered down the drainpipe and rang Liz again. I got young Dalton. He said, \"My knees are rattling, man.\" I said, \"Don't worry, mine are, too. You've got to be a big, brave man for your mum, mate,\" and he said, \"I don't know if I can.\" I said, \"Of course you can. As soon as this front has passed I'll be down there.\"I ran to Glen and Liz's house after that front had gone, but it was a fireball. I'd hoped they'd escaped on foot and went looking for them at the village sports oval, where the locals who didn't evacuate were sheltering. They weren't there. I went back home and laid on my bed.At first light, my son Jared found Liz and Dalton's remains in what was left of their bathroom. Thirty-eight people died in Marysville on Black Saturday. There were so many bodies that Liz and Dalton's weren't able to be removed for four days.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "2009 in review: Australian bushfires"},{"date": "2009-11-13T09:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A sharp fall in demand from Indian international students has pushed the Australian education industry to a long overdue turning point \u2013 one that, ironically, may ensure a more robust future for the sector.Scandal erupted earlier this year with a number of reports in the Australian press of violent attacks on Indian students. The reports were amplified in the Indian media, with Australia being widely condemned as a \"racist\" nation. A flurry of diplomatic missions to India ensued, with visits by the deputy prime minister, ministers of foreign affairs and trade, and two state premiers. Prime minister Kevin Rudd is due to visit this month.The attacks were the most obvious blow to Australia's ambitions for the Indian student market, but unfortunately two other factors have also contributed.The global financial crisis was already slowing demand for overseas study, not helped by the Australian dollar's dramatic appreciation against the rupee. But most important were changes to immigration rules, including much more rigorous scrutiny of visa applications, which have shattered the perception in India \u2013 encouraged by many migration agents \u2013 that education is an easy way to secure permanent residency in Australia.The alarm was raised in July by Australia's universities-owned recruiter IDP, which said the \"head count\" of inquiries in its Indian offices was down by 80%. Another recruiter, Hobsons Asian Pacific, said last month that it had seen inquiries in India halve.To date, universities are taking the downturn in their stride. Monash University's deputy vice-chancellor international, Professor Stephanie Fahey, said that the latest figures suggested a 10% drop in enrolments in 2010 from Indian students, who last year numbered only 500 of the university's 12,000 international students.Likewise, RMIT's pro-vice-chancellor international, Michelle Hoodbhoy, said next year's enrolments are expected to dip 7% or 8%, before recov ering. \"We have seen substantially lower numbers of applications, but we have found the quality remained high,\" she said.The real pain is being felt in the vocational education and training (VET) sector, where many small colleges are likely to close or fail to retain their government accreditation as state governments clamp down on \"shonky\" operators set up to take advantage of the educational route to permanent residency \u2013 New South Wales and Victoria in particular have launched a large number of lightning audits of suspect colleges.Before the recession, when Australia was experiencing serious skills shortages, the department of immigration published an extensive Migration Occupations in Demand List (Modl) \u2013 students studying for a qualification covered by the list had their \"general skilled migration\" visa fast-tracked.In March, the Modl was replaced with a much tighter \"critical skills list\" that eschewed a host of previously accepted trades such as catering and hairdressing. Accountancy remains on the list but the English language skills requirements have been raised to the equivalent of level 7 in the Ielts test of English.The stipulation of Ielts 7 for accoun tants' visas is an important step forward \u2013 Australian institutions at all levels have long stood accused of enrolling students with inadequate English, then preparing them for careers that demand high-level communication skills.This is one matter under consideration in a full review of the federal Education Services for Overseas Services Act led by former federal MP Bruce Baird. It is due to report in February. In a newspaper interview published last week, Baird said that he supported arguments for imposing a compulsory minimum level of English for incoming students.\"I certainly have sympathy with that idea of lifting it to a mandatory minimum. As I understand it, some universities are insisting on level 7 [in the Ielts test] and others 6.5, and the closer you get down the voca tional end, some people are requiring only 4.5 and even lower, I've heard.\"So 5.5 is common, but it seems to me that opening up the gates as widely as we have creates problems. I think we certainly need some confidence.\"Baird revealed that he is considering proposals that a minimum level could be set at Ielts 6. He also said he was investigating a loophole that allows vocational colleges to bypass language requirements by offer ing foreign students a guaranteed place on a vocational course if they enrol on an English language programme on campus before their studies start. \"That needs to be looked at,\" he said. Baird also indicated that he supported demands that the English language proficiency of students be tested when they graduate. The Business Council of Australia said recently that many students were leaving tertiary education with the skills required for the workplace but were rejected by employers because of inadequate English, especially written.\"I'm very sympathetic to the view there should be testing of English competence at the end of courses if the individual is wanting permanent residency in Australia,'' Baird said, indi ca ting that such a regime would stem the flow of migrants using education as an easy entry into the country.Tony Pollock, chief executive of IDP, supports exit testing, which he says is already in use in Hong Kong's universities, but said it should be voluntary. \"It would be a huge competitive advantage for Australia if it could introduce exit language testing across the board for international students, but I don't think it requires regulation. Once a couple of universities start offer ing it, students will start demanding it everywhere,\" said Pollock.Stephanie Fahey says Monash has begun looking at introducing exit testing, though she points out it would not be compulsory.Employers are already pressing for more assurance that \"qualified\" graduates are able to communicate at the appropriate level. Accountants KPMG and Ernst & Young are both looking to international students to help fill their graduate programmes and require an Ielts score of at least 7.", "tags": ["Tefl", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia weighs setting study bar"},{"date": "2009-12-27T00:05:35Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The experts say that the fire on Black Saturday was travelling at 145km per hour. I can testify to that because I was doing 140 in my Ute when I got to the hill outside Marysville that afternoon, and it was dumping spot fires as big as my house in front of me\u2026 kaboom, kaboom, kaboom!I was on my way back from a meeting in nearby Narbethong, and I'd seen cars scattered at an intersection like there had been an accident. I looked over my shoulder and the whole Black Range mountain was on fire. The flames were 130ft high. That's when I put my foot down.As soon as I got home, I removed anything that might be flammable from outside my house and started the sprinklers. They weren't working very well because everyone in Marysville was drawing water. I emptied all the bins and filled them from the taps. I filled every bucket I could find.By 5pm the sky was so black I had to use the torch. There was a roar like being behind a jumbo jet. It felt like the end of the world, but I had testicular cancer last year and I thought, \"I beat the cancer, so I can beat the fire.\" I went down to my best mate Glen Fiske's house where his wife Liz and son Dalton were, and told them to evacuate. She said, \"No Bruce, I'm fine.\"At six o'clock the first front hit. It suddenly went from pitch black to the brightest light you've ever seen. The back of the house caught fire. I was darting in and out as quickly as I could with buckets, because I was mindful of the heat. Then the mulch in the front garden bed caught fire. I'm still going around with the torch, a bucket, a hanky tied to my face, putting all the flames out.The fire front went through the town up on to Mount Strickland, then there was a wind change and it came back. The wind was unbelievable. I was up on the roof of the veranda putting out a fire when the ladder blew down. I scarpered down the drainpipe and rang Liz again. I got young Dalton. He said, \"My knees are rattling, man.\" I said, \"Don't worry, mine are, too. You've got to be a big, brave man for your mum, mate,\" and he said, \"I don't know if I can.\" I said, \"Of course you can. As soon as this front has passed I'll be down there.\"I ran to Glen and Liz's house after that front had gone, but it was a fireball. I'd hoped they'd escaped on foot and went looking for them at the village sports oval, where the locals who didn't evacuate were sheltering. They weren't there. I went back home and laid on my bed.At first light, my son Jared found Liz and Dalton's remains in what was left of their bathroom. Thirty-eight people died in Marysville on Black Saturday. There were so many bodies that Liz and Dalton's weren't able to be removed for four days.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "2009 in review: Australian bushfires"},{"date": "2009-11-13T09:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A sharp fall in demand from Indian international students has pushed the Australian education industry to a long overdue turning point \u2013 one that, ironically, may ensure a more robust future for the sector.Scandal erupted earlier this year with a number of reports in the Australian press of violent attacks on Indian students. The reports were amplified in the Indian media, with Australia being widely condemned as a \"racist\" nation. A flurry of diplomatic missions to India ensued, with visits by the deputy prime minister, ministers of foreign affairs and trade, and two state premiers. Prime minister Kevin Rudd is due to visit this month.The attacks were the most obvious blow to Australia's ambitions for the Indian student market, but unfortunately two other factors have also contributed.The global financial crisis was already slowing demand for overseas study, not helped by the Australian dollar's dramatic appreciation against the rupee. But most important were changes to immigration rules, including much more rigorous scrutiny of visa applications, which have shattered the perception in India \u2013 encouraged by many migration agents \u2013 that education is an easy way to secure permanent residency in Australia.The alarm was raised in July by Australia's universities-owned recruiter IDP, which said the \"head count\" of inquiries in its Indian offices was down by 80%. Another recruiter, Hobsons Asian Pacific, said last month that it had seen inquiries in India halve.To date, universities are taking the downturn in their stride. Monash University's deputy vice-chancellor international, Professor Stephanie Fahey, said that the latest figures suggested a 10% drop in enrolments in 2010 from Indian students, who last year numbered only 500 of the university's 12,000 international students.Likewise, RMIT's pro-vice-chancellor international, Michelle Hoodbhoy, said next year's enrolments are expected to dip 7% or 8%, before recov ering. \"We have seen substantially lower numbers of applications, but we have found the quality remained high,\" she said.The real pain is being felt in the vocational education and training (VET) sector, where many small colleges are likely to close or fail to retain their government accreditation as state governments clamp down on \"shonky\" operators set up to take advantage of the educational route to permanent residency \u2013 New South Wales and Victoria in particular have launched a large number of lightning audits of suspect colleges.Before the recession, when Australia was experiencing serious skills shortages, the department of immigration published an extensive Migration Occupations in Demand List (Modl) \u2013 students studying for a qualification covered by the list had their \"general skilled migration\" visa fast-tracked.In March, the Modl was replaced with a much tighter \"critical skills list\" that eschewed a host of previously accepted trades such as catering and hairdressing. Accountancy remains on the list but the English language skills requirements have been raised to the equivalent of level 7 in the Ielts test of English.The stipulation of Ielts 7 for accoun tants' visas is an important step forward \u2013 Australian institutions at all levels have long stood accused of enrolling students with inadequate English, then preparing them for careers that demand high-level communication skills.This is one matter under consideration in a full review of the federal Education Services for Overseas Services Act led by former federal MP Bruce Baird. It is due to report in February. In a newspaper interview published last week, Baird said that he supported arguments for imposing a compulsory minimum level of English for incoming students.\"I certainly have sympathy with that idea of lifting it to a mandatory minimum. As I understand it, some universities are insisting on level 7 [in the Ielts test] and others 6.5, and the closer you get down the voca tional end, some people are requiring only 4.5 and even lower, I've heard.\"So 5.5 is common, but it seems to me that opening up the gates as widely as we have creates problems. I think we certainly need some confidence.\"Baird revealed that he is considering proposals that a minimum level could be set at Ielts 6. He also said he was investigating a loophole that allows vocational colleges to bypass language requirements by offer ing foreign students a guaranteed place on a vocational course if they enrol on an English language programme on campus before their studies start. \"That needs to be looked at,\" he said. Baird also indicated that he supported demands that the English language proficiency of students be tested when they graduate. The Business Council of Australia said recently that many students were leaving tertiary education with the skills required for the workplace but were rejected by employers because of inadequate English, especially written.\"I'm very sympathetic to the view there should be testing of English competence at the end of courses if the individual is wanting permanent residency in Australia,'' Baird said, indi ca ting that such a regime would stem the flow of migrants using education as an easy entry into the country.Tony Pollock, chief executive of IDP, supports exit testing, which he says is already in use in Hong Kong's universities, but said it should be voluntary. \"It would be a huge competitive advantage for Australia if it could introduce exit language testing across the board for international students, but I don't think it requires regulation. Once a couple of universities start offer ing it, students will start demanding it everywhere,\" said Pollock.Stephanie Fahey says Monash has begun looking at introducing exit testing, though she points out it would not be compulsory.Employers are already pressing for more assurance that \"qualified\" graduates are able to communicate at the appropriate level. Accountants KPMG and Ernst & Young are both looking to international students to help fill their graduate programmes and require an Ielts score of at least 7.", "tags": ["Tefl", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia weighs setting study bar"},{"date": "2009-10-01T06:28:47Z", "country": "australia", "content": "UKTV has acquired the rights to MasterChef Australia, the Antipodean version of the BBC series that earlier this year set a record for the most viewed non-sport programme in Australian TV history. The pay-TV broadcaster has acquired the rights to broadcast the 72-episode series from Elisabeth Murdoch's Shine International. UKTV intends to premiere the series in January on general entertainment channel Watch before running it on its Good Food channel from May.The show, originally produced by FremantleMedia Australia for Network 10, differs substantially from the UK version and became a ratings phenomenon in Australia following its launch in April. On 19 July the final episode, The Winner Announced, became the highest rating non-sports show to air in Australia, with a peak of 4.11m viewers.The show took the mantle from Australian Idol, also on Network 10, which averaged 3.35m viewers for its 2004 finale.The Sydney 2000 Olympic Games holds the record for the most-watched TV programme.\u2022\u00a0To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk, email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020-3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020-3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["UKTV", "Television industry", "Media", "MasterChef", "Television", "Television & radio", "Culture"], "title": "UKTV to air MasterChef Australia"},{"date": "2009-12-27T00:05:35Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The experts say that the fire on Black Saturday was travelling at 145km per hour. I can testify to that because I was doing 140 in my Ute when I got to the hill outside Marysville that afternoon, and it was dumping spot fires as big as my house in front of me\u2026 kaboom, kaboom, kaboom!I was on my way back from a meeting in nearby Narbethong, and I'd seen cars scattered at an intersection like there had been an accident. I looked over my shoulder and the whole Black Range mountain was on fire. The flames were 130ft high. That's when I put my foot down.As soon as I got home, I removed anything that might be flammable from outside my house and started the sprinklers. They weren't working very well because everyone in Marysville was drawing water. I emptied all the bins and filled them from the taps. I filled every bucket I could find.By 5pm the sky was so black I had to use the torch. There was a roar like being behind a jumbo jet. It felt like the end of the world, but I had testicular cancer last year and I thought, \"I beat the cancer, so I can beat the fire.\" I went down to my best mate Glen Fiske's house where his wife Liz and son Dalton were, and told them to evacuate. She said, \"No Bruce, I'm fine.\"At six o'clock the first front hit. It suddenly went from pitch black to the brightest light you've ever seen. The back of the house caught fire. I was darting in and out as quickly as I could with buckets, because I was mindful of the heat. Then the mulch in the front garden bed caught fire. I'm still going around with the torch, a bucket, a hanky tied to my face, putting all the flames out.The fire front went through the town up on to Mount Strickland, then there was a wind change and it came back. The wind was unbelievable. I was up on the roof of the veranda putting out a fire when the ladder blew down. I scarpered down the drainpipe and rang Liz again. I got young Dalton. He said, \"My knees are rattling, man.\" I said, \"Don't worry, mine are, too. You've got to be a big, brave man for your mum, mate,\" and he said, \"I don't know if I can.\" I said, \"Of course you can. As soon as this front has passed I'll be down there.\"I ran to Glen and Liz's house after that front had gone, but it was a fireball. I'd hoped they'd escaped on foot and went looking for them at the village sports oval, where the locals who didn't evacuate were sheltering. They weren't there. I went back home and laid on my bed.At first light, my son Jared found Liz and Dalton's remains in what was left of their bathroom. Thirty-eight people died in Marysville on Black Saturday. There were so many bodies that Liz and Dalton's weren't able to be removed for four days.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "2009 in review: Australian bushfires"},{"date": "2009-11-13T09:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A sharp fall in demand from Indian international students has pushed the Australian education industry to a long overdue turning point \u2013 one that, ironically, may ensure a more robust future for the sector.Scandal erupted earlier this year with a number of reports in the Australian press of violent attacks on Indian students. The reports were amplified in the Indian media, with Australia being widely condemned as a \"racist\" nation. A flurry of diplomatic missions to India ensued, with visits by the deputy prime minister, ministers of foreign affairs and trade, and two state premiers. Prime minister Kevin Rudd is due to visit this month.The attacks were the most obvious blow to Australia's ambitions for the Indian student market, but unfortunately two other factors have also contributed.The global financial crisis was already slowing demand for overseas study, not helped by the Australian dollar's dramatic appreciation against the rupee. But most important were changes to immigration rules, including much more rigorous scrutiny of visa applications, which have shattered the perception in India \u2013 encouraged by many migration agents \u2013 that education is an easy way to secure permanent residency in Australia.The alarm was raised in July by Australia's universities-owned recruiter IDP, which said the \"head count\" of inquiries in its Indian offices was down by 80%. Another recruiter, Hobsons Asian Pacific, said last month that it had seen inquiries in India halve.To date, universities are taking the downturn in their stride. Monash University's deputy vice-chancellor international, Professor Stephanie Fahey, said that the latest figures suggested a 10% drop in enrolments in 2010 from Indian students, who last year numbered only 500 of the university's 12,000 international students.Likewise, RMIT's pro-vice-chancellor international, Michelle Hoodbhoy, said next year's enrolments are expected to dip 7% or 8%, before recov ering. \"We have seen substantially lower numbers of applications, but we have found the quality remained high,\" she said.The real pain is being felt in the vocational education and training (VET) sector, where many small colleges are likely to close or fail to retain their government accreditation as state governments clamp down on \"shonky\" operators set up to take advantage of the educational route to permanent residency \u2013 New South Wales and Victoria in particular have launched a large number of lightning audits of suspect colleges.Before the recession, when Australia was experiencing serious skills shortages, the department of immigration published an extensive Migration Occupations in Demand List (Modl) \u2013 students studying for a qualification covered by the list had their \"general skilled migration\" visa fast-tracked.In March, the Modl was replaced with a much tighter \"critical skills list\" that eschewed a host of previously accepted trades such as catering and hairdressing. Accountancy remains on the list but the English language skills requirements have been raised to the equivalent of level 7 in the Ielts test of English.The stipulation of Ielts 7 for accoun tants' visas is an important step forward \u2013 Australian institutions at all levels have long stood accused of enrolling students with inadequate English, then preparing them for careers that demand high-level communication skills.This is one matter under consideration in a full review of the federal Education Services for Overseas Services Act led by former federal MP Bruce Baird. It is due to report in February. In a newspaper interview published last week, Baird said that he supported arguments for imposing a compulsory minimum level of English for incoming students.\"I certainly have sympathy with that idea of lifting it to a mandatory minimum. As I understand it, some universities are insisting on level 7 [in the Ielts test] and others 6.5, and the closer you get down the voca tional end, some people are requiring only 4.5 and even lower, I've heard.\"So 5.5 is common, but it seems to me that opening up the gates as widely as we have creates problems. I think we certainly need some confidence.\"Baird revealed that he is considering proposals that a minimum level could be set at Ielts 6. He also said he was investigating a loophole that allows vocational colleges to bypass language requirements by offer ing foreign students a guaranteed place on a vocational course if they enrol on an English language programme on campus before their studies start. \"That needs to be looked at,\" he said. Baird also indicated that he supported demands that the English language proficiency of students be tested when they graduate. The Business Council of Australia said recently that many students were leaving tertiary education with the skills required for the workplace but were rejected by employers because of inadequate English, especially written.\"I'm very sympathetic to the view there should be testing of English competence at the end of courses if the individual is wanting permanent residency in Australia,'' Baird said, indi ca ting that such a regime would stem the flow of migrants using education as an easy entry into the country.Tony Pollock, chief executive of IDP, supports exit testing, which he says is already in use in Hong Kong's universities, but said it should be voluntary. \"It would be a huge competitive advantage for Australia if it could introduce exit language testing across the board for international students, but I don't think it requires regulation. Once a couple of universities start offer ing it, students will start demanding it everywhere,\" said Pollock.Stephanie Fahey says Monash has begun looking at introducing exit testing, though she points out it would not be compulsory.Employers are already pressing for more assurance that \"qualified\" graduates are able to communicate at the appropriate level. Accountants KPMG and Ernst & Young are both looking to international students to help fill their graduate programmes and require an Ielts score of at least 7.", "tags": ["Tefl", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia weighs setting study bar"},{"date": "2009-10-01T06:28:47Z", "country": "australia", "content": "UKTV has acquired the rights to MasterChef Australia, the Antipodean version of the BBC series that earlier this year set a record for the most viewed non-sport programme in Australian TV history. The pay-TV broadcaster has acquired the rights to broadcast the 72-episode series from Elisabeth Murdoch's Shine International. UKTV intends to premiere the series in January on general entertainment channel Watch before running it on its Good Food channel from May.The show, originally produced by FremantleMedia Australia for Network 10, differs substantially from the UK version and became a ratings phenomenon in Australia following its launch in April. On 19 July the final episode, The Winner Announced, became the highest rating non-sports show to air in Australia, with a peak of 4.11m viewers.The show took the mantle from Australian Idol, also on Network 10, which averaged 3.35m viewers for its 2004 finale.The Sydney 2000 Olympic Games holds the record for the most-watched TV programme.\u2022\u00a0To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk, email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020-3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020-3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["UKTV", "Television industry", "Media", "MasterChef", "Television", "Television & radio", "Culture"], "title": "UKTV to air MasterChef Australia"},{"date": "2009-11-18T13:56:42Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, has said he would consider an inquiry into the Church of Scientology after a senator tabled allegations against the organisation including forced abortions, assault, torture, imprisonment, covering up sexual abuse, embezzlement of church funds and blackmail.Senator Nick Xenophon tabled letters from former officials and staff of the Church of Scientology alleging criminal activity, and demanded a review of the organisation's tax exempt status.\"Scientology is not a religious organisation, it is a criminal organisation that hides behind its so-called religious beliefs,\" he told the senate.Among the letters tabled was one written by Aaron Saxton, from Perth, who said he engaged in torture and blackmail while working for the church in Australia and at its American headquarters between 1989 and 1996.Rudd said the allegations were \"grave\" and that he would consider an inquiry, but said the evidence needed to be looked at carefully. \"Many people in Australia have real concerns about Scientology. I share some of those concerns. But let us proceed carefully, and look carefully at the material which he has provided, before we make a decision on further parliamentary action,\" Rudd said.Xenophon, an independent member of the Australian parliament who built a reputation fighting the spread of poker machines in his home state, South Australia, tabled the documents in the senate saying he had also referred the allegations to New South Wales and Australian federal police.Xenophon said he had received letters from many more former church members who were too afraid to talk to authorities.The letter from Aaron Saxton claimed he had assisted in the forced confinement and torture of a female church member who was kept under house arrest, Xenophon told the Senate. Saxton also said he was involved in coercing female followers to have abortions to keep followers loyal to the organisation and to allow them to keep working for it.\"Aaron says women who fell pregnant were taken to offices and bullied to have an abortion. If they refused, they faced demotion and hard labour,\" Xenophon said. \"Aaron says one staff member used a coat hanger and self-aborted her child for fear of punishment.\".One letter from a former executive director of the Sydney branch of the church, Carmel Underwood, said that when she fell pregnant she was put under extreme pressure to have an abortion.\"Carmel says she also witnessed a young girl who had been molested by her father being coached as to what she should say to investigating authorities in order to keep the crimes secret,\" Xenophon said.Anna and Dean Detheridge from Sydney, who spent 17 years on church staff, said they were \"subjected to physical and mental abuse during their time with the organisation\", according to the parliamentary statement.\"Anna and Dean also provided evidence where information they and others have revealed to the church have been used to blackmail and control. They also provided more information about coerced abortions,\" Xenophon said.The Church of Scientology issued a statement accusing Xenophon of abusing parliamentary privilege. \"Senator Xenophon is obviously being pressured by disgruntled former members who use hate speech and distorted accounts,\" the statement said. \"They are about as reliable as former spouses are when talking about their ex-partner.\"", "tags": ["Scientology", "Australia news", "World news", "Religion", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Scientology faces allegations of torture in Australia"},{"date": "2010-02-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It's too big,\" said Shellani. \"This can't be our boat, we don't know how to drive it!\" But it was, and we were about to learn. First lesson, it's not called driving \u2013 you captain the ship, explained Rory. He would show us the ropes for two hours, then the boat was ours for a week \u2013 a shiny, expensive-looking 40ft yacht, entrusted to two young Poms with zero boat-driving experience.We were in the Whitsundays, a scattering of around 70 mostly uninhabited tropical islands off the coast of Queensland. It's a location that scores highly for romance. But it would also be a test. You don't truly get to know someone until you spend a week alone on a boat with them. Cooped up in an enclosed space, surrounded by water, it's like seven years of marriage condensed into seven days.We found a quiet, sheltered cove and stayed put for most of our holiday, too scared to drive the boat anywhere. But what a place \u2013 beautifully peaceful save for the sound of the lorikeets in the trees and the waves bumping against the boat. We spent the days reading, sunbathing and jumping in the water.In the evenings we cooked fish, chatted, played Scrabble by moonlight and watched the stars. It was a magical existence. And what did I learn about Shellani on our voyage of discovery? Well, mainly that she was extremely good at Scrabble. I never won a game.Jonathan Knight founded Punk Publishing, which produces Cool Camping (www.coolcamping.co.uk). A week's yacht charter around the Whitsundays costs from \u00a31,560 per boat with Sunsail (www.sunsail.co.uk), who can also arrange flights from the UK to Hamilton Island for around \u00a3700", "tags": ["Australia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Destination romance: Whitsunday Coast Australia"},{"date": "2010-02-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It's too big,\" said Shellani. \"This can't be our boat, we don't know how to drive it!\" But it was, and we were about to learn. First lesson, it's not called driving \u2013 you captain the ship, explained Rory. He would show us the ropes for two hours, then the boat was ours for a week \u2013 a shiny, expensive-looking 40ft yacht, entrusted to two young Poms with zero boat-driving experience.We were in the Whitsundays, a scattering of around 70 mostly uninhabited tropical islands off the coast of Queensland. It's a location that scores highly for romance. But it would also be a test. You don't truly get to know someone until you spend a week alone on a boat with them. Cooped up in an enclosed space, surrounded by water, it's like seven years of marriage condensed into seven days.We found a quiet, sheltered cove and stayed put for most of our holiday, too scared to drive the boat anywhere. But what a place \u2013 beautifully peaceful save for the sound of the lorikeets in the trees and the waves bumping against the boat. We spent the days reading, sunbathing and jumping in the water.In the evenings we cooked fish, chatted, played Scrabble by moonlight and watched the stars. It was a magical existence. And what did I learn about Shellani on our voyage of discovery? Well, mainly that she was extremely good at Scrabble. I never won a game.Jonathan Knight founded Punk Publishing, which produces Cool Camping (www.coolcamping.co.uk). A week's yacht charter around the Whitsundays costs from \u00a31,560 per boat with Sunsail (www.sunsail.co.uk), who can also arrange flights from the UK to Hamilton Island for around \u00a3700", "tags": ["Australia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Destination romance: Whitsunday Coast Australia"},{"date": "2010-01-07T18:00:01Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Here in Australia the year has not started well on the race relations front. Yesterday saw the Australian branch of fast-food chain KFC condemned by sections of the American media over an advertisement deemed racist by African-Americans. But it is another, and more serious, international racism row that is dominating the headlines. It surrounds the knife murder of 21-year-old Indian university graduate Nitin Garg in Melbourne over the weekend.The response from the Indian community in Australia and the media back in India was unequivocally furious. Here, they said, was yet another demonstration of how Indian students have been singled out by racist Australian thugs. SM Krishna, India's external affairs minister, denounced the murder as a \"heinous act against humanity\" and \"an uncivilised brutal attack on innocent Indians\". His ministry has issued a warning to Indians planning to travel to Australia.Indians believe that Australian authorities are in denial about racist assaults against their compatriots. In the case of Garg's death, police in Melbourne so far have not concluded that it was the result of a hate crime. Senior federal government ministers have inflamed Indian anger with assurances that Australia remains safe for international students. One Delhi newspaper even published a cartoon depicting Melbourne police as the Klu Klux Klan.The reality is rather messier than either side of the debate might like to concede. Both the Indians and the Australian authorities are right, to some degree.The statistics suggest Indian complaints are not entirely unfounded: 1,447 people of Indian nationality were victims of crime in Victoria in the 12 months to July 2008. And yet, we would paint a distorted picture to say that racism is all to blame. There is no doubt that some violent attacks on Indian students have been racially motivated. But there is also no doubt that many have been the product of opportunistic criminals who have identified Indian students as soft targets (many work late nights to support themselves or supplement their incomes).Some perspective would do everyone good. The streets of Melbourne and Sydney, Australia's two main cities, do not resemble those of Baghdad or Johannesburg. As for Indian outrage about racism, it should be reminded that no one's hands are clean: what about the pogrom against Muslims conducted by Hindu nationalists in Gujarat in 2002?Even so, the problem of racism remains a real one in Australia, although it is not confined to the rise of an aggressive white nationalism, epitomised by gratuitous, narcissistic flag-waving and \"100% Aussie\" tattoos. When there was a surge of racist \"curry-bashings\" in the western suburbs of Sydney in 2009, it was not white Australians who were the culprits, but Australians of Middle Eastern (primarily Lebanese) background.The increasingly shrill tone of the Indian government and media does nothing to aid their cause, however. The Australian government and public are not indifferent to their grievances. Educating students from overseas earns Australia $A15.5bn per year, with Indians representing the second-largest source of students. Australians take genuine pride in being an open, safe and friendly country. The Australian government, for its part, sent a delegation to India led by deputy prime minister Julia Gillard last year in a bid to improve bilateral relations.The greater challenge, at the Australian end, seems to be cultural rather than political. There is in the country something of a benign neglect towards racism, in part because much of it tends to be of the low-level variety that could be easily excused as part of an ironic, knockabout, piss-taking Aussie sense of humour. \"Xenophobia\", as comedian Barry Humphries once quipped, \"is love of Australia\". Those who complain about racism are just taking themselves too seriously and fail to have a bit of a laugh at themselves. Perhaps so \u2013 sometimes. When it comes to racist violence, no one should be laughing.", "tags": ["India", "Australia news", "Race issues", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "India confronts Australia over racism | Tim Soutphommasane"},{"date": "2010-02-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It's too big,\" said Shellani. \"This can't be our boat, we don't know how to drive it!\" But it was, and we were about to learn. First lesson, it's not called driving \u2013 you captain the ship, explained Rory. He would show us the ropes for two hours, then the boat was ours for a week \u2013 a shiny, expensive-looking 40ft yacht, entrusted to two young Poms with zero boat-driving experience.We were in the Whitsundays, a scattering of around 70 mostly uninhabited tropical islands off the coast of Queensland. It's a location that scores highly for romance. But it would also be a test. You don't truly get to know someone until you spend a week alone on a boat with them. Cooped up in an enclosed space, surrounded by water, it's like seven years of marriage condensed into seven days.We found a quiet, sheltered cove and stayed put for most of our holiday, too scared to drive the boat anywhere. But what a place \u2013 beautifully peaceful save for the sound of the lorikeets in the trees and the waves bumping against the boat. We spent the days reading, sunbathing and jumping in the water.In the evenings we cooked fish, chatted, played Scrabble by moonlight and watched the stars. It was a magical existence. And what did I learn about Shellani on our voyage of discovery? Well, mainly that she was extremely good at Scrabble. I never won a game.Jonathan Knight founded Punk Publishing, which produces Cool Camping (www.coolcamping.co.uk). A week's yacht charter around the Whitsundays costs from \u00a31,560 per boat with Sunsail (www.sunsail.co.uk), who can also arrange flights from the UK to Hamilton Island for around \u00a3700", "tags": ["Australia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Destination romance: Whitsunday Coast Australia"},{"date": "2010-01-07T18:00:01Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Here in Australia the year has not started well on the race relations front. Yesterday saw the Australian branch of fast-food chain KFC condemned by sections of the American media over an advertisement deemed racist by African-Americans. But it is another, and more serious, international racism row that is dominating the headlines. It surrounds the knife murder of 21-year-old Indian university graduate Nitin Garg in Melbourne over the weekend.The response from the Indian community in Australia and the media back in India was unequivocally furious. Here, they said, was yet another demonstration of how Indian students have been singled out by racist Australian thugs. SM Krishna, India's external affairs minister, denounced the murder as a \"heinous act against humanity\" and \"an uncivilised brutal attack on innocent Indians\". His ministry has issued a warning to Indians planning to travel to Australia.Indians believe that Australian authorities are in denial about racist assaults against their compatriots. In the case of Garg's death, police in Melbourne so far have not concluded that it was the result of a hate crime. Senior federal government ministers have inflamed Indian anger with assurances that Australia remains safe for international students. One Delhi newspaper even published a cartoon depicting Melbourne police as the Klu Klux Klan.The reality is rather messier than either side of the debate might like to concede. Both the Indians and the Australian authorities are right, to some degree.The statistics suggest Indian complaints are not entirely unfounded: 1,447 people of Indian nationality were victims of crime in Victoria in the 12 months to July 2008. And yet, we would paint a distorted picture to say that racism is all to blame. There is no doubt that some violent attacks on Indian students have been racially motivated. But there is also no doubt that many have been the product of opportunistic criminals who have identified Indian students as soft targets (many work late nights to support themselves or supplement their incomes).Some perspective would do everyone good. The streets of Melbourne and Sydney, Australia's two main cities, do not resemble those of Baghdad or Johannesburg. As for Indian outrage about racism, it should be reminded that no one's hands are clean: what about the pogrom against Muslims conducted by Hindu nationalists in Gujarat in 2002?Even so, the problem of racism remains a real one in Australia, although it is not confined to the rise of an aggressive white nationalism, epitomised by gratuitous, narcissistic flag-waving and \"100% Aussie\" tattoos. When there was a surge of racist \"curry-bashings\" in the western suburbs of Sydney in 2009, it was not white Australians who were the culprits, but Australians of Middle Eastern (primarily Lebanese) background.The increasingly shrill tone of the Indian government and media does nothing to aid their cause, however. The Australian government and public are not indifferent to their grievances. Educating students from overseas earns Australia $A15.5bn per year, with Indians representing the second-largest source of students. Australians take genuine pride in being an open, safe and friendly country. The Australian government, for its part, sent a delegation to India led by deputy prime minister Julia Gillard last year in a bid to improve bilateral relations.The greater challenge, at the Australian end, seems to be cultural rather than political. There is in the country something of a benign neglect towards racism, in part because much of it tends to be of the low-level variety that could be easily excused as part of an ironic, knockabout, piss-taking Aussie sense of humour. \"Xenophobia\", as comedian Barry Humphries once quipped, \"is love of Australia\". Those who complain about racism are just taking themselves too seriously and fail to have a bit of a laugh at themselves. Perhaps so \u2013 sometimes. When it comes to racist violence, no one should be laughing.", "tags": ["India", "Australia news", "Race issues", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "India confronts Australia over racism | Tim Soutphommasane"},{"date": "2010-02-15T09:54:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Five men convicted of a terrorist conspiracy were today given sentences between 23 and 28 years after the longest trial in Australian history.The men were found guilty in October on a range of charges including possessing bomb-making instructions and explosive chemicals.Prosecutors said the men had stockpiled chemicals and detailed instructions for making bombs capable of causing large-scale death and destruction, but the details of the plot and its intended target were never specified. All five men had pleaded not guilty.Justice Anthony Whealy said the men had been inspired by \"intolerant, inflexible religious conviction\" and remained unrepentant.\"These men will face many years in jail ...but they appear to wear their imprisonment like some badge of honour,\" he told the court in Sydney.The five, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were driven by a belief that Islam was under attack throughout the world by the US and its allies, including Australia, he said.\"Each man's conviction was that the plight of Muslims in other lands demanded violent action in this country to redress those wrongs and, through fear and panic in the community, to change the government's policies,\" he said.The men were among nine people arrested during a series of raids in 2005 and 2006 by the police and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (ASIO), the domestic security service. The remaining four pleaded guilty to lesser offences.The jury heard from 300 witnesses, and was shown 3,000 pieces of evidence, 30 days of surveillance tapes and 18 hours of phone intercepts.Justice Whealy said that although the intention to kill could not be proved, the large stockpile of dangerous materials which the suspects had accumulated - including chemicals for bomb making and ammunition - showed they intended to cause such extensive property damage that it would have posed a serious risk to human life.He also noted that there was \"a wide range\" of this material that had never been recovered and might be available to terrorists in future conspiracies.What was particularly appalling was the voluminous collection of extremist Islamic propaganda which each had acquired as it glorified Osama bin Laden and contained graphic images of violence involving hostages, the judge said.Some of the videos involving executions were so horrific that they were not shown to the jury, which instead viewed only a written summary of the material, he said.The jury was apparently convinced that each man had intended to detonate explosives for the purpose of carrying out violent jihad to coerce the Australian government into changing its support of the invasion of Muslim countries, he said.During the summing up the men, who wore traditional Islamic dress, smiled and even exchanged pleasantries with each other. They smiled again after their sentences were pronounced.The group's ringleader, aged 44, was sentenced to a maximum term of 28 years in prison while his deputy, aged 36, was sentenced to 27 years. The third man, 40, was sentenced to 20 years, the fourth man, 34, was sentenced to 26 years and the fifth, aged 25, was sentenced to 23 years in prison.They had faced a maximum penalty of life in prison. The judge allowed for parole after the men serve 17 to 21 years in prison.Two men shouted from the back of the court in Arabic: \"Be patient. Allah is with you.\"", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "New South Wales"], "title": "Five Muslims jailed over Australia terror plot"},{"date": "2010-02-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It's too big,\" said Shellani. \"This can't be our boat, we don't know how to drive it!\" But it was, and we were about to learn. First lesson, it's not called driving \u2013 you captain the ship, explained Rory. He would show us the ropes for two hours, then the boat was ours for a week \u2013 a shiny, expensive-looking 40ft yacht, entrusted to two young Poms with zero boat-driving experience.We were in the Whitsundays, a scattering of around 70 mostly uninhabited tropical islands off the coast of Queensland. It's a location that scores highly for romance. But it would also be a test. You don't truly get to know someone until you spend a week alone on a boat with them. Cooped up in an enclosed space, surrounded by water, it's like seven years of marriage condensed into seven days.We found a quiet, sheltered cove and stayed put for most of our holiday, too scared to drive the boat anywhere. But what a place \u2013 beautifully peaceful save for the sound of the lorikeets in the trees and the waves bumping against the boat. We spent the days reading, sunbathing and jumping in the water.In the evenings we cooked fish, chatted, played Scrabble by moonlight and watched the stars. It was a magical existence. And what did I learn about Shellani on our voyage of discovery? Well, mainly that she was extremely good at Scrabble. I never won a game.Jonathan Knight founded Punk Publishing, which produces Cool Camping (www.coolcamping.co.uk). A week's yacht charter around the Whitsundays costs from \u00a31,560 per boat with Sunsail (www.sunsail.co.uk), who can also arrange flights from the UK to Hamilton Island for around \u00a3700", "tags": ["Australia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Destination romance: Whitsunday Coast Australia"},{"date": "2010-01-07T18:00:01Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Here in Australia the year has not started well on the race relations front. Yesterday saw the Australian branch of fast-food chain KFC condemned by sections of the American media over an advertisement deemed racist by African-Americans. But it is another, and more serious, international racism row that is dominating the headlines. It surrounds the knife murder of 21-year-old Indian university graduate Nitin Garg in Melbourne over the weekend.The response from the Indian community in Australia and the media back in India was unequivocally furious. Here, they said, was yet another demonstration of how Indian students have been singled out by racist Australian thugs. SM Krishna, India's external affairs minister, denounced the murder as a \"heinous act against humanity\" and \"an uncivilised brutal attack on innocent Indians\". His ministry has issued a warning to Indians planning to travel to Australia.Indians believe that Australian authorities are in denial about racist assaults against their compatriots. In the case of Garg's death, police in Melbourne so far have not concluded that it was the result of a hate crime. Senior federal government ministers have inflamed Indian anger with assurances that Australia remains safe for international students. One Delhi newspaper even published a cartoon depicting Melbourne police as the Klu Klux Klan.The reality is rather messier than either side of the debate might like to concede. Both the Indians and the Australian authorities are right, to some degree.The statistics suggest Indian complaints are not entirely unfounded: 1,447 people of Indian nationality were victims of crime in Victoria in the 12 months to July 2008. And yet, we would paint a distorted picture to say that racism is all to blame. There is no doubt that some violent attacks on Indian students have been racially motivated. But there is also no doubt that many have been the product of opportunistic criminals who have identified Indian students as soft targets (many work late nights to support themselves or supplement their incomes).Some perspective would do everyone good. The streets of Melbourne and Sydney, Australia's two main cities, do not resemble those of Baghdad or Johannesburg. As for Indian outrage about racism, it should be reminded that no one's hands are clean: what about the pogrom against Muslims conducted by Hindu nationalists in Gujarat in 2002?Even so, the problem of racism remains a real one in Australia, although it is not confined to the rise of an aggressive white nationalism, epitomised by gratuitous, narcissistic flag-waving and \"100% Aussie\" tattoos. When there was a surge of racist \"curry-bashings\" in the western suburbs of Sydney in 2009, it was not white Australians who were the culprits, but Australians of Middle Eastern (primarily Lebanese) background.The increasingly shrill tone of the Indian government and media does nothing to aid their cause, however. The Australian government and public are not indifferent to their grievances. Educating students from overseas earns Australia $A15.5bn per year, with Indians representing the second-largest source of students. Australians take genuine pride in being an open, safe and friendly country. The Australian government, for its part, sent a delegation to India led by deputy prime minister Julia Gillard last year in a bid to improve bilateral relations.The greater challenge, at the Australian end, seems to be cultural rather than political. There is in the country something of a benign neglect towards racism, in part because much of it tends to be of the low-level variety that could be easily excused as part of an ironic, knockabout, piss-taking Aussie sense of humour. \"Xenophobia\", as comedian Barry Humphries once quipped, \"is love of Australia\". Those who complain about racism are just taking themselves too seriously and fail to have a bit of a laugh at themselves. Perhaps so \u2013 sometimes. When it comes to racist violence, no one should be laughing.", "tags": ["India", "Australia news", "Race issues", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "India confronts Australia over racism | Tim Soutphommasane"},{"date": "2010-02-15T09:54:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Five men convicted of a terrorist conspiracy were today given sentences between 23 and 28 years after the longest trial in Australian history.The men were found guilty in October on a range of charges including possessing bomb-making instructions and explosive chemicals.Prosecutors said the men had stockpiled chemicals and detailed instructions for making bombs capable of causing large-scale death and destruction, but the details of the plot and its intended target were never specified. All five men had pleaded not guilty.Justice Anthony Whealy said the men had been inspired by \"intolerant, inflexible religious conviction\" and remained unrepentant.\"These men will face many years in jail ...but they appear to wear their imprisonment like some badge of honour,\" he told the court in Sydney.The five, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were driven by a belief that Islam was under attack throughout the world by the US and its allies, including Australia, he said.\"Each man's conviction was that the plight of Muslims in other lands demanded violent action in this country to redress those wrongs and, through fear and panic in the community, to change the government's policies,\" he said.The men were among nine people arrested during a series of raids in 2005 and 2006 by the police and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (ASIO), the domestic security service. The remaining four pleaded guilty to lesser offences.The jury heard from 300 witnesses, and was shown 3,000 pieces of evidence, 30 days of surveillance tapes and 18 hours of phone intercepts.Justice Whealy said that although the intention to kill could not be proved, the large stockpile of dangerous materials which the suspects had accumulated - including chemicals for bomb making and ammunition - showed they intended to cause such extensive property damage that it would have posed a serious risk to human life.He also noted that there was \"a wide range\" of this material that had never been recovered and might be available to terrorists in future conspiracies.What was particularly appalling was the voluminous collection of extremist Islamic propaganda which each had acquired as it glorified Osama bin Laden and contained graphic images of violence involving hostages, the judge said.Some of the videos involving executions were so horrific that they were not shown to the jury, which instead viewed only a written summary of the material, he said.The jury was apparently convinced that each man had intended to detonate explosives for the purpose of carrying out violent jihad to coerce the Australian government into changing its support of the invasion of Muslim countries, he said.During the summing up the men, who wore traditional Islamic dress, smiled and even exchanged pleasantries with each other. They smiled again after their sentences were pronounced.The group's ringleader, aged 44, was sentenced to a maximum term of 28 years in prison while his deputy, aged 36, was sentenced to 27 years. The third man, 40, was sentenced to 20 years, the fourth man, 34, was sentenced to 26 years and the fifth, aged 25, was sentenced to 23 years in prison.They had faced a maximum penalty of life in prison. The judge allowed for parole after the men serve 17 to 21 years in prison.Two men shouted from the back of the court in Arabic: \"Be patient. Allah is with you.\"", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "New South Wales"], "title": "Five Muslims jailed over Australia terror plot"},{"date": "2010-02-19T14:21:03Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia today warned Japan to end its \"scientific\" whale hunts in the Antarctic by November or face international legal action, in a move that threatens to sour relations between the Asia-Pacific allies.The Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, has threatened legal action before in an attempt to end the slaughter every winter of 1,000 whales in the Southern Ocean.His latest warning comes on the eve of an official visit by the Japanese foreign minister, Katsuya Okada, for talks that were supposed to focus on the countries' increasing trade and military ties.Rudd said he would prefer to reduce Japan's whaling activities \"to zero\" through negotiation.\"But if that fails \u2013 and I'm saying this very bluntly and very clearly \u2013 then we will initiate that court action before the commencement of the whaling season in November 2010,\" he told Network Seven TV.Rudd, who faces an election this year, added: \"That is a direct honouring of the commitment I gave to the Australian people. And that is the right way to handle it with a friend and partner, Japan, which is also a very significant, long-standing economic partner as well.\"That's the bottom line and we're very clear with the Japanese that's what we intend to do.\"Okada, who is to hold talks with his counterpart, Stephen Smith, over the weekend, suggested Rudd's move was little more than an attempt at early electioneering.\"We understand that the current Australian government in its manifesto opposes whaling for research purposes,\" Okada told reporters in Tokyo. \"With that in mind, we would like to have a calm and substantial discussion.\"Australia says it has collected enough video and photographic evidence to launch legal action against Japan at the international court of justice in The Hague or the international tribunal for the law of the sea in Hamburg.The Rudd administration is a vocal critic of Japan's annual hunts, which it says take place in international waters that include an Australian maritime rescue zone that Canberra regards as a whale sanctuary.Japan, however, does not recognise those claims, and says its right to conduct \"lethal research\" in the area is protected by the International Whaling Commission (IWC).Japan's whaling fleet has been involved in several skirmishes with activists during the current season. On Monday Pete Bethune, a member of the Sea Shepherd conservation group, jumped aboard the fleet's security vessel, the Shonan Maru No 2, to \"arrest\" the captain over the sinking of a protest boat last month.Bethune, the former skipper of the Ady Gil, which was ripped in half in a collision with the Shonan Maru No 2 in early January, is being detained aboard the ship and could face charges of trespass and assault when he arrives in Japan in about a month's time.Masayuki Komatsu, a former delegate to the IWC, said he was \"very confident\" that Japan would win any legal confrontation.But maritime law experts believe Australia has a strong case for arguing that Japan is abusing its right to conduct whaling for scientific research.Don Rothwell, a professor of international law at the Australian National University, has said that either court would probably grant an immediate injunction ordering Japan to stop whaling, pending a negotiated settlement.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Japan", "World news", "Environment", "Whaling", "Activism", "Whales", "Asia Pacific", "Kevin Rudd", "Australian politics", "Cetaceans"], "title": "Australia threatens legal action over Japanese whaling"},{"date": "2010-02-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It's too big,\" said Shellani. \"This can't be our boat, we don't know how to drive it!\" But it was, and we were about to learn. First lesson, it's not called driving \u2013 you captain the ship, explained Rory. He would show us the ropes for two hours, then the boat was ours for a week \u2013 a shiny, expensive-looking 40ft yacht, entrusted to two young Poms with zero boat-driving experience.We were in the Whitsundays, a scattering of around 70 mostly uninhabited tropical islands off the coast of Queensland. It's a location that scores highly for romance. But it would also be a test. You don't truly get to know someone until you spend a week alone on a boat with them. Cooped up in an enclosed space, surrounded by water, it's like seven years of marriage condensed into seven days.We found a quiet, sheltered cove and stayed put for most of our holiday, too scared to drive the boat anywhere. But what a place \u2013 beautifully peaceful save for the sound of the lorikeets in the trees and the waves bumping against the boat. We spent the days reading, sunbathing and jumping in the water.In the evenings we cooked fish, chatted, played Scrabble by moonlight and watched the stars. It was a magical existence. And what did I learn about Shellani on our voyage of discovery? Well, mainly that she was extremely good at Scrabble. I never won a game.Jonathan Knight founded Punk Publishing, which produces Cool Camping (www.coolcamping.co.uk). A week's yacht charter around the Whitsundays costs from \u00a31,560 per boat with Sunsail (www.sunsail.co.uk), who can also arrange flights from the UK to Hamilton Island for around \u00a3700", "tags": ["Australia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Destination romance: Whitsunday Coast Australia"},{"date": "2010-01-07T18:00:01Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Here in Australia the year has not started well on the race relations front. Yesterday saw the Australian branch of fast-food chain KFC condemned by sections of the American media over an advertisement deemed racist by African-Americans. But it is another, and more serious, international racism row that is dominating the headlines. It surrounds the knife murder of 21-year-old Indian university graduate Nitin Garg in Melbourne over the weekend.The response from the Indian community in Australia and the media back in India was unequivocally furious. Here, they said, was yet another demonstration of how Indian students have been singled out by racist Australian thugs. SM Krishna, India's external affairs minister, denounced the murder as a \"heinous act against humanity\" and \"an uncivilised brutal attack on innocent Indians\". His ministry has issued a warning to Indians planning to travel to Australia.Indians believe that Australian authorities are in denial about racist assaults against their compatriots. In the case of Garg's death, police in Melbourne so far have not concluded that it was the result of a hate crime. Senior federal government ministers have inflamed Indian anger with assurances that Australia remains safe for international students. One Delhi newspaper even published a cartoon depicting Melbourne police as the Klu Klux Klan.The reality is rather messier than either side of the debate might like to concede. Both the Indians and the Australian authorities are right, to some degree.The statistics suggest Indian complaints are not entirely unfounded: 1,447 people of Indian nationality were victims of crime in Victoria in the 12 months to July 2008. And yet, we would paint a distorted picture to say that racism is all to blame. There is no doubt that some violent attacks on Indian students have been racially motivated. But there is also no doubt that many have been the product of opportunistic criminals who have identified Indian students as soft targets (many work late nights to support themselves or supplement their incomes).Some perspective would do everyone good. The streets of Melbourne and Sydney, Australia's two main cities, do not resemble those of Baghdad or Johannesburg. As for Indian outrage about racism, it should be reminded that no one's hands are clean: what about the pogrom against Muslims conducted by Hindu nationalists in Gujarat in 2002?Even so, the problem of racism remains a real one in Australia, although it is not confined to the rise of an aggressive white nationalism, epitomised by gratuitous, narcissistic flag-waving and \"100% Aussie\" tattoos. When there was a surge of racist \"curry-bashings\" in the western suburbs of Sydney in 2009, it was not white Australians who were the culprits, but Australians of Middle Eastern (primarily Lebanese) background.The increasingly shrill tone of the Indian government and media does nothing to aid their cause, however. The Australian government and public are not indifferent to their grievances. Educating students from overseas earns Australia $A15.5bn per year, with Indians representing the second-largest source of students. Australians take genuine pride in being an open, safe and friendly country. The Australian government, for its part, sent a delegation to India led by deputy prime minister Julia Gillard last year in a bid to improve bilateral relations.The greater challenge, at the Australian end, seems to be cultural rather than political. There is in the country something of a benign neglect towards racism, in part because much of it tends to be of the low-level variety that could be easily excused as part of an ironic, knockabout, piss-taking Aussie sense of humour. \"Xenophobia\", as comedian Barry Humphries once quipped, \"is love of Australia\". Those who complain about racism are just taking themselves too seriously and fail to have a bit of a laugh at themselves. Perhaps so \u2013 sometimes. When it comes to racist violence, no one should be laughing.", "tags": ["India", "Australia news", "Race issues", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "India confronts Australia over racism | Tim Soutphommasane"},{"date": "2010-02-15T09:54:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Five men convicted of a terrorist conspiracy were today given sentences between 23 and 28 years after the longest trial in Australian history.The men were found guilty in October on a range of charges including possessing bomb-making instructions and explosive chemicals.Prosecutors said the men had stockpiled chemicals and detailed instructions for making bombs capable of causing large-scale death and destruction, but the details of the plot and its intended target were never specified. All five men had pleaded not guilty.Justice Anthony Whealy said the men had been inspired by \"intolerant, inflexible religious conviction\" and remained unrepentant.\"These men will face many years in jail ...but they appear to wear their imprisonment like some badge of honour,\" he told the court in Sydney.The five, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were driven by a belief that Islam was under attack throughout the world by the US and its allies, including Australia, he said.\"Each man's conviction was that the plight of Muslims in other lands demanded violent action in this country to redress those wrongs and, through fear and panic in the community, to change the government's policies,\" he said.The men were among nine people arrested during a series of raids in 2005 and 2006 by the police and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (ASIO), the domestic security service. The remaining four pleaded guilty to lesser offences.The jury heard from 300 witnesses, and was shown 3,000 pieces of evidence, 30 days of surveillance tapes and 18 hours of phone intercepts.Justice Whealy said that although the intention to kill could not be proved, the large stockpile of dangerous materials which the suspects had accumulated - including chemicals for bomb making and ammunition - showed they intended to cause such extensive property damage that it would have posed a serious risk to human life.He also noted that there was \"a wide range\" of this material that had never been recovered and might be available to terrorists in future conspiracies.What was particularly appalling was the voluminous collection of extremist Islamic propaganda which each had acquired as it glorified Osama bin Laden and contained graphic images of violence involving hostages, the judge said.Some of the videos involving executions were so horrific that they were not shown to the jury, which instead viewed only a written summary of the material, he said.The jury was apparently convinced that each man had intended to detonate explosives for the purpose of carrying out violent jihad to coerce the Australian government into changing its support of the invasion of Muslim countries, he said.During the summing up the men, who wore traditional Islamic dress, smiled and even exchanged pleasantries with each other. They smiled again after their sentences were pronounced.The group's ringleader, aged 44, was sentenced to a maximum term of 28 years in prison while his deputy, aged 36, was sentenced to 27 years. The third man, 40, was sentenced to 20 years, the fourth man, 34, was sentenced to 26 years and the fifth, aged 25, was sentenced to 23 years in prison.They had faced a maximum penalty of life in prison. The judge allowed for parole after the men serve 17 to 21 years in prison.Two men shouted from the back of the court in Arabic: \"Be patient. Allah is with you.\"", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "New South Wales"], "title": "Five Muslims jailed over Australia terror plot"},{"date": "2010-02-19T14:21:03Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia today warned Japan to end its \"scientific\" whale hunts in the Antarctic by November or face international legal action, in a move that threatens to sour relations between the Asia-Pacific allies.The Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, has threatened legal action before in an attempt to end the slaughter every winter of 1,000 whales in the Southern Ocean.His latest warning comes on the eve of an official visit by the Japanese foreign minister, Katsuya Okada, for talks that were supposed to focus on the countries' increasing trade and military ties.Rudd said he would prefer to reduce Japan's whaling activities \"to zero\" through negotiation.\"But if that fails \u2013 and I'm saying this very bluntly and very clearly \u2013 then we will initiate that court action before the commencement of the whaling season in November 2010,\" he told Network Seven TV.Rudd, who faces an election this year, added: \"That is a direct honouring of the commitment I gave to the Australian people. And that is the right way to handle it with a friend and partner, Japan, which is also a very significant, long-standing economic partner as well.\"That's the bottom line and we're very clear with the Japanese that's what we intend to do.\"Okada, who is to hold talks with his counterpart, Stephen Smith, over the weekend, suggested Rudd's move was little more than an attempt at early electioneering.\"We understand that the current Australian government in its manifesto opposes whaling for research purposes,\" Okada told reporters in Tokyo. \"With that in mind, we would like to have a calm and substantial discussion.\"Australia says it has collected enough video and photographic evidence to launch legal action against Japan at the international court of justice in The Hague or the international tribunal for the law of the sea in Hamburg.The Rudd administration is a vocal critic of Japan's annual hunts, which it says take place in international waters that include an Australian maritime rescue zone that Canberra regards as a whale sanctuary.Japan, however, does not recognise those claims, and says its right to conduct \"lethal research\" in the area is protected by the International Whaling Commission (IWC).Japan's whaling fleet has been involved in several skirmishes with activists during the current season. On Monday Pete Bethune, a member of the Sea Shepherd conservation group, jumped aboard the fleet's security vessel, the Shonan Maru No 2, to \"arrest\" the captain over the sinking of a protest boat last month.Bethune, the former skipper of the Ady Gil, which was ripped in half in a collision with the Shonan Maru No 2 in early January, is being detained aboard the ship and could face charges of trespass and assault when he arrives in Japan in about a month's time.Masayuki Komatsu, a former delegate to the IWC, said he was \"very confident\" that Japan would win any legal confrontation.But maritime law experts believe Australia has a strong case for arguing that Japan is abusing its right to conduct whaling for scientific research.Don Rothwell, a professor of international law at the Australian National University, has said that either court would probably grant an immediate injunction ordering Japan to stop whaling, pending a negotiated settlement.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Japan", "World news", "Environment", "Whaling", "Activism", "Whales", "Asia Pacific", "Kevin Rudd", "Australian politics", "Cetaceans"], "title": "Australia threatens legal action over Japanese whaling"},{"date": "2010-01-25T15:58:21Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Great minds think alike, or doing the bleedin' obvious? Monkey only asks after the good people of London dance station Kiss 100 announced they would mark tomorrow's Australia Day by ... turning their schedule upside down! So drivetime DJ Jez Welham will host breakfast, and breakfast presenters Rickie, Melvin and Charlie will... oh, you get the idea. Over at BBC 6Music, they will also be celebrating Australia Day. How? By turning their schedule upside down! So Steve Lamacq gets breakfast, and Shaun Keaveny goes to... yes, drivetime, like you hadn't guessed. Celebrity Big Brother, meanwhile, will mark the day by turning its contestants upside down. And leaving them there.", "tags": ["Radio industry", "BBC", "Media"], "title": "Two good turns for Australia Day | Media Monkey"},{"date": "2010-02-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It's too big,\" said Shellani. \"This can't be our boat, we don't know how to drive it!\" But it was, and we were about to learn. First lesson, it's not called driving \u2013 you captain the ship, explained Rory. He would show us the ropes for two hours, then the boat was ours for a week \u2013 a shiny, expensive-looking 40ft yacht, entrusted to two young Poms with zero boat-driving experience.We were in the Whitsundays, a scattering of around 70 mostly uninhabited tropical islands off the coast of Queensland. It's a location that scores highly for romance. But it would also be a test. You don't truly get to know someone until you spend a week alone on a boat with them. Cooped up in an enclosed space, surrounded by water, it's like seven years of marriage condensed into seven days.We found a quiet, sheltered cove and stayed put for most of our holiday, too scared to drive the boat anywhere. But what a place \u2013 beautifully peaceful save for the sound of the lorikeets in the trees and the waves bumping against the boat. We spent the days reading, sunbathing and jumping in the water.In the evenings we cooked fish, chatted, played Scrabble by moonlight and watched the stars. It was a magical existence. And what did I learn about Shellani on our voyage of discovery? Well, mainly that she was extremely good at Scrabble. I never won a game.Jonathan Knight founded Punk Publishing, which produces Cool Camping (www.coolcamping.co.uk). A week's yacht charter around the Whitsundays costs from \u00a31,560 per boat with Sunsail (www.sunsail.co.uk), who can also arrange flights from the UK to Hamilton Island for around \u00a3700", "tags": ["Australia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Destination romance: Whitsunday Coast Australia"},{"date": "2010-01-07T18:00:01Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Here in Australia the year has not started well on the race relations front. Yesterday saw the Australian branch of fast-food chain KFC condemned by sections of the American media over an advertisement deemed racist by African-Americans. But it is another, and more serious, international racism row that is dominating the headlines. It surrounds the knife murder of 21-year-old Indian university graduate Nitin Garg in Melbourne over the weekend.The response from the Indian community in Australia and the media back in India was unequivocally furious. Here, they said, was yet another demonstration of how Indian students have been singled out by racist Australian thugs. SM Krishna, India's external affairs minister, denounced the murder as a \"heinous act against humanity\" and \"an uncivilised brutal attack on innocent Indians\". His ministry has issued a warning to Indians planning to travel to Australia.Indians believe that Australian authorities are in denial about racist assaults against their compatriots. In the case of Garg's death, police in Melbourne so far have not concluded that it was the result of a hate crime. Senior federal government ministers have inflamed Indian anger with assurances that Australia remains safe for international students. One Delhi newspaper even published a cartoon depicting Melbourne police as the Klu Klux Klan.The reality is rather messier than either side of the debate might like to concede. Both the Indians and the Australian authorities are right, to some degree.The statistics suggest Indian complaints are not entirely unfounded: 1,447 people of Indian nationality were victims of crime in Victoria in the 12 months to July 2008. And yet, we would paint a distorted picture to say that racism is all to blame. There is no doubt that some violent attacks on Indian students have been racially motivated. But there is also no doubt that many have been the product of opportunistic criminals who have identified Indian students as soft targets (many work late nights to support themselves or supplement their incomes).Some perspective would do everyone good. The streets of Melbourne and Sydney, Australia's two main cities, do not resemble those of Baghdad or Johannesburg. As for Indian outrage about racism, it should be reminded that no one's hands are clean: what about the pogrom against Muslims conducted by Hindu nationalists in Gujarat in 2002?Even so, the problem of racism remains a real one in Australia, although it is not confined to the rise of an aggressive white nationalism, epitomised by gratuitous, narcissistic flag-waving and \"100% Aussie\" tattoos. When there was a surge of racist \"curry-bashings\" in the western suburbs of Sydney in 2009, it was not white Australians who were the culprits, but Australians of Middle Eastern (primarily Lebanese) background.The increasingly shrill tone of the Indian government and media does nothing to aid their cause, however. The Australian government and public are not indifferent to their grievances. Educating students from overseas earns Australia $A15.5bn per year, with Indians representing the second-largest source of students. Australians take genuine pride in being an open, safe and friendly country. The Australian government, for its part, sent a delegation to India led by deputy prime minister Julia Gillard last year in a bid to improve bilateral relations.The greater challenge, at the Australian end, seems to be cultural rather than political. There is in the country something of a benign neglect towards racism, in part because much of it tends to be of the low-level variety that could be easily excused as part of an ironic, knockabout, piss-taking Aussie sense of humour. \"Xenophobia\", as comedian Barry Humphries once quipped, \"is love of Australia\". Those who complain about racism are just taking themselves too seriously and fail to have a bit of a laugh at themselves. Perhaps so \u2013 sometimes. When it comes to racist violence, no one should be laughing.", "tags": ["India", "Australia news", "Race issues", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "India confronts Australia over racism | Tim Soutphommasane"},{"date": "2010-02-15T09:54:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Five men convicted of a terrorist conspiracy were today given sentences between 23 and 28 years after the longest trial in Australian history.The men were found guilty in October on a range of charges including possessing bomb-making instructions and explosive chemicals.Prosecutors said the men had stockpiled chemicals and detailed instructions for making bombs capable of causing large-scale death and destruction, but the details of the plot and its intended target were never specified. All five men had pleaded not guilty.Justice Anthony Whealy said the men had been inspired by \"intolerant, inflexible religious conviction\" and remained unrepentant.\"These men will face many years in jail ...but they appear to wear their imprisonment like some badge of honour,\" he told the court in Sydney.The five, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were driven by a belief that Islam was under attack throughout the world by the US and its allies, including Australia, he said.\"Each man's conviction was that the plight of Muslims in other lands demanded violent action in this country to redress those wrongs and, through fear and panic in the community, to change the government's policies,\" he said.The men were among nine people arrested during a series of raids in 2005 and 2006 by the police and the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (ASIO), the domestic security service. The remaining four pleaded guilty to lesser offences.The jury heard from 300 witnesses, and was shown 3,000 pieces of evidence, 30 days of surveillance tapes and 18 hours of phone intercepts.Justice Whealy said that although the intention to kill could not be proved, the large stockpile of dangerous materials which the suspects had accumulated - including chemicals for bomb making and ammunition - showed they intended to cause such extensive property damage that it would have posed a serious risk to human life.He also noted that there was \"a wide range\" of this material that had never been recovered and might be available to terrorists in future conspiracies.What was particularly appalling was the voluminous collection of extremist Islamic propaganda which each had acquired as it glorified Osama bin Laden and contained graphic images of violence involving hostages, the judge said.Some of the videos involving executions were so horrific that they were not shown to the jury, which instead viewed only a written summary of the material, he said.The jury was apparently convinced that each man had intended to detonate explosives for the purpose of carrying out violent jihad to coerce the Australian government into changing its support of the invasion of Muslim countries, he said.During the summing up the men, who wore traditional Islamic dress, smiled and even exchanged pleasantries with each other. They smiled again after their sentences were pronounced.The group's ringleader, aged 44, was sentenced to a maximum term of 28 years in prison while his deputy, aged 36, was sentenced to 27 years. The third man, 40, was sentenced to 20 years, the fourth man, 34, was sentenced to 26 years and the fifth, aged 25, was sentenced to 23 years in prison.They had faced a maximum penalty of life in prison. The judge allowed for parole after the men serve 17 to 21 years in prison.Two men shouted from the back of the court in Arabic: \"Be patient. Allah is with you.\"", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "New South Wales"], "title": "Five Muslims jailed over Australia terror plot"},{"date": "2010-02-19T14:21:03Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia today warned Japan to end its \"scientific\" whale hunts in the Antarctic by November or face international legal action, in a move that threatens to sour relations between the Asia-Pacific allies.The Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, has threatened legal action before in an attempt to end the slaughter every winter of 1,000 whales in the Southern Ocean.His latest warning comes on the eve of an official visit by the Japanese foreign minister, Katsuya Okada, for talks that were supposed to focus on the countries' increasing trade and military ties.Rudd said he would prefer to reduce Japan's whaling activities \"to zero\" through negotiation.\"But if that fails \u2013 and I'm saying this very bluntly and very clearly \u2013 then we will initiate that court action before the commencement of the whaling season in November 2010,\" he told Network Seven TV.Rudd, who faces an election this year, added: \"That is a direct honouring of the commitment I gave to the Australian people. And that is the right way to handle it with a friend and partner, Japan, which is also a very significant, long-standing economic partner as well.\"That's the bottom line and we're very clear with the Japanese that's what we intend to do.\"Okada, who is to hold talks with his counterpart, Stephen Smith, over the weekend, suggested Rudd's move was little more than an attempt at early electioneering.\"We understand that the current Australian government in its manifesto opposes whaling for research purposes,\" Okada told reporters in Tokyo. \"With that in mind, we would like to have a calm and substantial discussion.\"Australia says it has collected enough video and photographic evidence to launch legal action against Japan at the international court of justice in The Hague or the international tribunal for the law of the sea in Hamburg.The Rudd administration is a vocal critic of Japan's annual hunts, which it says take place in international waters that include an Australian maritime rescue zone that Canberra regards as a whale sanctuary.Japan, however, does not recognise those claims, and says its right to conduct \"lethal research\" in the area is protected by the International Whaling Commission (IWC).Japan's whaling fleet has been involved in several skirmishes with activists during the current season. On Monday Pete Bethune, a member of the Sea Shepherd conservation group, jumped aboard the fleet's security vessel, the Shonan Maru No 2, to \"arrest\" the captain over the sinking of a protest boat last month.Bethune, the former skipper of the Ady Gil, which was ripped in half in a collision with the Shonan Maru No 2 in early January, is being detained aboard the ship and could face charges of trespass and assault when he arrives in Japan in about a month's time.Masayuki Komatsu, a former delegate to the IWC, said he was \"very confident\" that Japan would win any legal confrontation.But maritime law experts believe Australia has a strong case for arguing that Japan is abusing its right to conduct whaling for scientific research.Don Rothwell, a professor of international law at the Australian National University, has said that either court would probably grant an immediate injunction ordering Japan to stop whaling, pending a negotiated settlement.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Japan", "World news", "Environment", "Whaling", "Activism", "Whales", "Asia Pacific", "Kevin Rudd", "Australian politics", "Cetaceans"], "title": "Australia threatens legal action over Japanese whaling"},{"date": "2010-01-25T15:58:21Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Great minds think alike, or doing the bleedin' obvious? Monkey only asks after the good people of London dance station Kiss 100 announced they would mark tomorrow's Australia Day by ... turning their schedule upside down! So drivetime DJ Jez Welham will host breakfast, and breakfast presenters Rickie, Melvin and Charlie will... oh, you get the idea. Over at BBC 6Music, they will also be celebrating Australia Day. How? By turning their schedule upside down! So Steve Lamacq gets breakfast, and Shaun Keaveny goes to... yes, drivetime, like you hadn't guessed. Celebrity Big Brother, meanwhile, will mark the day by turning its contestants upside down. And leaving them there.", "tags": ["Radio industry", "BBC", "Media"], "title": "Two good turns for Australia Day | Media Monkey"},{"date": "2010-03-25T19:42:48Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The first remains of a tyrannosaurus that stalked the southern continents have been identified by scientists from a distinctive hip bone blasted from a cliff face in Australia.About a quarter of the size of the legendary, and exclusively northern, Tyrannosaurus rex, the dinosaur was about three meters long and would have weighed some 80kg (12st 8lb), about the same as a human. The find sheds lays to rest the belief that tyrannosaurs never made it to the southern hemisphere. Their fossils have previously been found only in the northern hemisphere.Tyrannosaurs have very distinctive hip bones, which allowed Roger Benson, a dinosaur expert at the University of Cambridge, to make the identification. In the journal Science, Benson and his colleagues say the dinosaur would have lived about 110m years ago.A surge of finds from that period in recent years have shown that these smaller tyrannosaurs were probably widespread, and ancestors of the T-rex, which weighed about four tonnes and emerged 70m years ago.Benson said: \"Although we have only one bone, it shows that 110m years ago, small tyrannosaurs like ours might have been found worldwide. This find has major significance for our knowledge of how this group of dinosaurs evolved.\" It was unlikely that a T-rex fossil could be uncovered in the southern hemisphere.Paul Barrett, a palaeontologist at the Natural History Museum in London and a member of the research team, said: \"The absence of tyrannosauroids from the southern continents was becoming more and more anomalous as the representatives of other northern dinosaur groups started to show up in the south. This find shows that tyrannosauroids were able to reach these areas early in their evolutionary history, and also hints at the possibility that others remain to be discovered in Africa, South America and India.\"Benson said a key question now was why the early tyrannosaurs seem to have evolved into the giant T-rex only in the north. \"It is difficult to explain why different groups succeeded in the north and the south if they originally existed in both places. What we need to know now is just how diverse the early radiation of tyrannosaurs was, why they went extinct, leaving only giant-sized, short-armed species like T-rex, and how successful they might have been in the southern hemisphere. We can only answer these questions with new discoveries.\"During the time of the dinosaurs, the world's continents gradually went from a single supercontinent towards something like their present arrangement. The new tyrannosaur is from the mid-stages of this continental break-up, when the southern continents of South America, Antarctica, Africa and Australia had separated from the northern continents, but not from each other.The distinctive hip bone was one of 100-odd bones and fragments recovered at Dinosaur Cove in Victoria by Australian scientist Tom Rich in 1989. The 30cm-long pubis bone looks like a rod with two expanded ends, one of which is flattened and connects to the hip and the other of which has the shape of a boot.", "tags": ["Dinosaurs", "Australia news", "Science", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "T-rex's slightly less terrifying ancestor unearthed in Australia"},{"date": "2010-06-24T23:05:15Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australians were informed by politicians in Canberra yesterday of a change of prime minister. The coup was quick, unexpected and effective. A nation whose political life seems to run at double the speed of everyone else's \u2013 federal elections every three and a bit years, five leaders of two main parties in this parliament alone \u2013 has upped the pace.For outsiders, Kevin Rudd's fall may seem inexplicable. An internationally minded Mandarin-speaking former diplomat whose country has sailed through the recession and financial crisis unscathed, and who is still, just, ahead in the polls, did not seem an obvious candidate for defenestration. In late 2007 he won by a landslide, offering grand plans to construct a tolerant and environmentally aware nation. Last year he was still the most popular prime minister in Australian history. Early this year he was on course for re-election. Yesterday he was kicked out by his fellow Labor MPs in a plot that caught alight faster than a bushfire. Within hours his successor, Julia Gillard was answering questions in parliament as Mr Rudd blinked away tears.If it was cruel, it was also necessary. The trigger was an impending federal election against a Liberal opposition that has been taken to the right under its new leader, Tony Abbott. Ms Gillard - Australia's first female prime minister and the first prime minister anywhere to have been born in Wales - appears electable as Mr Rudd did not.Australian politicians have never been afraid of slaughtering leaders who look like losers. The suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne are full of bitter men with bruised egos, ejected before they believed their time was up. The Australian Labor party has none of its British cousin's queasiness about sacking its chiefs. But Mr\u00a0Rudd, from Queensland and not part of the ALP's heavily factionalised culture, forfeited his prime ministership largely through his own failures. After declaring climate change to be the greatest moral challenge, he dropped plans for even a modest carbon trading scheme. He launched a justifiable tax assault on the mining industry, spending A$38m on advertising, without winning it. He ended isolated from his party and isolated from his country.Ms Gillard is likely to prove a briskly competent replacement, toughened by a raucous political culture. Her country is prosperous and confident and she has a solid chance of winning a second term for Labor later this year. Mr Rudd, the shortest-serving Australian prime minister in almost 40 years, may yet find a place as foreign affairs minister. The pity of it all is that his vision for Australia was a decent one, lacking only the courage and skills to see it through.\u2022 This article was amended on 25 June 2010. The original described Julia Gillard as the first prime minister anywhere to have been born in Wales since [David] Lloyd George. This has been deleted, as the latter was born in Manchester.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Julia Gillard", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia: Rudderless | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-06-24T23:05:15Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australians were informed by politicians in Canberra yesterday of a change of prime minister. The coup was quick, unexpected and effective. A nation whose political life seems to run at double the speed of everyone else's \u2013 federal elections every three and a bit years, five leaders of two main parties in this parliament alone \u2013 has upped the pace.For outsiders, Kevin Rudd's fall may seem inexplicable. An internationally minded Mandarin-speaking former diplomat whose country has sailed through the recession and financial crisis unscathed, and who is still, just, ahead in the polls, did not seem an obvious candidate for defenestration. In late 2007 he won by a landslide, offering grand plans to construct a tolerant and environmentally aware nation. Last year he was still the most popular prime minister in Australian history. Early this year he was on course for re-election. Yesterday he was kicked out by his fellow Labor MPs in a plot that caught alight faster than a bushfire. Within hours his successor, Julia Gillard was answering questions in parliament as Mr Rudd blinked away tears.If it was cruel, it was also necessary. The trigger was an impending federal election against a Liberal opposition that has been taken to the right under its new leader, Tony Abbott. Ms Gillard - Australia's first female prime minister and the first prime minister anywhere to have been born in Wales - appears electable as Mr Rudd did not.Australian politicians have never been afraid of slaughtering leaders who look like losers. The suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne are full of bitter men with bruised egos, ejected before they believed their time was up. The Australian Labor party has none of its British cousin's queasiness about sacking its chiefs. But Mr\u00a0Rudd, from Queensland and not part of the ALP's heavily factionalised culture, forfeited his prime ministership largely through his own failures. After declaring climate change to be the greatest moral challenge, he dropped plans for even a modest carbon trading scheme. He launched a justifiable tax assault on the mining industry, spending A$38m on advertising, without winning it. He ended isolated from his party and isolated from his country.Ms Gillard is likely to prove a briskly competent replacement, toughened by a raucous political culture. Her country is prosperous and confident and she has a solid chance of winning a second term for Labor later this year. Mr Rudd, the shortest-serving Australian prime minister in almost 40 years, may yet find a place as foreign affairs minister. The pity of it all is that his vision for Australia was a decent one, lacking only the courage and skills to see it through.\u2022 This article was amended on 25 June 2010. The original described Julia Gillard as the first prime minister anywhere to have been born in Wales since [David] Lloyd George. This has been deleted, as the latter was born in Manchester.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Julia Gillard", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia: Rudderless | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-04-01T14:00:40Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australians have long had to deal with jibes relating to the, well, career choices made by many of the first immigrants to their country's fair shores. Now, according to the Daily Telegraph, Robin Williams has joined the fray, calling the barbecue-loving populace \"English rednecks\". Then he broke the ultimate taboo, calling Australian rules football \"rugby with a thong\". \"If Darwin had landed in Australia, he'd have gone, 'I'm wrong \u2013 I don't know what I was thinking'.\" Let's hope Williams, who ranted to David Letterman, isn't planning a holiday or film down under any time soon.", "tags": ["Media"], "title": "Robin Williams v Australia | Media Monkey"},{"date": "2010-09-08T05:59:58Z", "country": "australia", "content": "'So let's draw back the curtains and let the sunshine in,\" said Julia Gillard on hearing of her narrow victory in Australia's general election. \"Let our parliament be more open than it was before.\"Australia's first female prime minister scraped back into power with words which might make one imagine that she was a woman, like many others before her, who was determined to change the parliamentary system: to make it more transparent, honest and accountable; to enter a chamber that a former leader of the Democrats called \"awash with testosterone\", and bring in a stern, but comforting female presence.This is, after all, something women have promised \u2013 or threatened \u2013 to do for well over a century, from the suffragettes onwards. The irony is that this is something Gillard did not promise: she did not campaign on the grounds of her gender, and she did not claim to do politics any differently.But, strangely enough, a different kind of politics was what voters wanted after all. Now she has been forced into promising greater accountability after an excruciatingly close election, and 17 days of pleading, begging and deal-making before three independents decided who they would support, leaving Gillard's Labor party with 76 seats, the Coalition 74.Before becoming party leader, Gillard, a former lawyer with a record of fighting for the rights of workers and women, was seen as a true political operative \u2013 a party player and a knife-sharp debater. She is, primarily, a pragmatist who played the political game to perfection before grasping the top job. She was straight with the media, did not pander to any of the stereotypes Australia's political women have been trapped by before \u2013 of saints, seductresses, wide-eyed housewives who stumbled into parliament, or \"steel Sheilas\" who wanted to be like Margaret Thatcher.She also batted down personal criticism with humour. Gillard told biographer Jacqueline Kent, when she was once standing next to a board with a large photo of her: \"This old guy comes out of the supermarket, looks at me, looks at the photo, then turns back at me and says, 'Taken on a good day wasn't it, love?' I said, 'And you'd be bloody Robert Redford, would you mate?'\"Initially, the public warmed to someone who seemed authentic and real. During the election, the fact that Gillard was a woman was irrelevant and only ever a vague distraction when the snipes about the fact that she had not married her boyfriend, had no children and did not cook emerged.But overall she ran a poor election, and\u00a0lost much ground to the more disciplined leader of the Liberal party, Tony Abbott. Her uninspiring rhetoric, gaffes, and a foolish remark about allowing the \"real Julia\" to emerge halfway through the campaign (who were we seeing before?) played into often sexist smears that she was a puppet of the hard-right men of her party.The greatest problem of this election, and the reason it was so close, is that voters stopped caring; many leaving ballot papers blank. It was, in essence, the failure of small target politics, where both parties were scrambling for the middle ground and focused on attacking the other side.The time for smallness in Australian politics has surely gone. The Labor party needs to articulate a compelling worldview, to appeal not to the fearful demons but the \"better angels of our nature\", as Lincoln said. To quell racism in immigration debates, not stir it up. Unlike the US and Britain, the economy has not been the predominant concern for voters \u2013 the country almost coasted through the financial crisis \u2013 but Australians are looking for a leader who might capture their imagination.This is Gillard's challenge. She needs to show leadership on climate change and allow the conscience vote on gay marriage that the newly muscular Greens, who now hold the balance of power in the senate, would like. Australia needs a more clearly articulated foreign policy and to acknowledge its enormous dependence on exporting to\u00a0China.Gillard should also make the prime minister she deposed, Kevin Rudd, the minister for foreign affairs \u2013 given his aptitude and knowledge of the subject, his popularity, and the lingering resentment at how cynically he was toppled.Gillard has to show her substance, and demonstrate, even with such a slight majority, that her party is about more than the pursuit of power. It should not matter that she is a woman. But it does matter that voters are sick of the old boys' way of doing politics. She must show she is capable of responding to the electorate's desire for politics to be done with the transparency and openness she has promised. Perhaps she also needs to show, as Thatcher said: \"It may be the cock that crows, but it is the hen that lays the eggs.\"", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Politics", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Now advance, Australia | Julia Baird"},{"date": "2010-09-08T05:59:58Z", "country": "australia", "content": "'So let's draw back the curtains and let the sunshine in,\" said Julia Gillard on hearing of her narrow victory in Australia's general election. \"Let our parliament be more open than it was before.\"Australia's first female prime minister scraped back into power with words which might make one imagine that she was a woman, like many others before her, who was determined to change the parliamentary system: to make it more transparent, honest and accountable; to enter a chamber that a former leader of the Democrats called \"awash with testosterone\", and bring in a stern, but comforting female presence.This is, after all, something women have promised \u2013 or threatened \u2013 to do for well over a century, from the suffragettes onwards. The irony is that this is something Gillard did not promise: she did not campaign on the grounds of her gender, and she did not claim to do politics any differently.But, strangely enough, a different kind of politics was what voters wanted after all. Now she has been forced into promising greater accountability after an excruciatingly close election, and 17 days of pleading, begging and deal-making before three independents decided who they would support, leaving Gillard's Labor party with 76 seats, the Coalition 74.Before becoming party leader, Gillard, a former lawyer with a record of fighting for the rights of workers and women, was seen as a true political operative \u2013 a party player and a knife-sharp debater. She is, primarily, a pragmatist who played the political game to perfection before grasping the top job. She was straight with the media, did not pander to any of the stereotypes Australia's political women have been trapped by before \u2013 of saints, seductresses, wide-eyed housewives who stumbled into parliament, or \"steel Sheilas\" who wanted to be like Margaret Thatcher.She also batted down personal criticism with humour. Gillard told biographer Jacqueline Kent, when she was once standing next to a board with a large photo of her: \"This old guy comes out of the supermarket, looks at me, looks at the photo, then turns back at me and says, 'Taken on a good day wasn't it, love?' I said, 'And you'd be bloody Robert Redford, would you mate?'\"Initially, the public warmed to someone who seemed authentic and real. During the election, the fact that Gillard was a woman was irrelevant and only ever a vague distraction when the snipes about the fact that she had not married her boyfriend, had no children and did not cook emerged.But overall she ran a poor election, and\u00a0lost much ground to the more disciplined leader of the Liberal party, Tony Abbott. Her uninspiring rhetoric, gaffes, and a foolish remark about allowing the \"real Julia\" to emerge halfway through the campaign (who were we seeing before?) played into often sexist smears that she was a puppet of the hard-right men of her party.The greatest problem of this election, and the reason it was so close, is that voters stopped caring; many leaving ballot papers blank. It was, in essence, the failure of small target politics, where both parties were scrambling for the middle ground and focused on attacking the other side.The time for smallness in Australian politics has surely gone. The Labor party needs to articulate a compelling worldview, to appeal not to the fearful demons but the \"better angels of our nature\", as Lincoln said. To quell racism in immigration debates, not stir it up. Unlike the US and Britain, the economy has not been the predominant concern for voters \u2013 the country almost coasted through the financial crisis \u2013 but Australians are looking for a leader who might capture their imagination.This is Gillard's challenge. She needs to show leadership on climate change and allow the conscience vote on gay marriage that the newly muscular Greens, who now hold the balance of power in the senate, would like. Australia needs a more clearly articulated foreign policy and to acknowledge its enormous dependence on exporting to\u00a0China.Gillard should also make the prime minister she deposed, Kevin Rudd, the minister for foreign affairs \u2013 given his aptitude and knowledge of the subject, his popularity, and the lingering resentment at how cynically he was toppled.Gillard has to show her substance, and demonstrate, even with such a slight majority, that her party is about more than the pursuit of power. It should not matter that she is a woman. But it does matter that voters are sick of the old boys' way of doing politics. She must show she is capable of responding to the electorate's desire for politics to be done with the transparency and openness she has promised. Perhaps she also needs to show, as Thatcher said: \"It may be the cock that crows, but it is the hen that lays the eggs.\"", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Politics", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Now advance, Australia | Julia Baird"},{"date": "2010-08-22T11:35:22Z", "country": "australia", "content": "There are few certainties left in Australian politics. Two months ago, the Labor party moved to terminate its leader, Kevin Rudd \u2013 the first time a prime minister had been toppled by his own party before facing re-election. On Saturday, it was the turn of voters to overturn one of the general laws of electoral behaviour. It has been a long time since it last happened \u2013 namely, with the Scullin Labor government in 1931 \u2013 but a government has failed to secure a second term in its own right.The result is disastrous for Labor. To be sure, a hung parliament means that Prime Minister Julia Gillard may yet form a minority government with the support of independent and Green MPs. But it is just as plausible that Liberal-conservative leader Tony Abbott may broker a minority government of his own. It may take several days, even a week, before either transpires. All this is unfamiliar territory, governed by nebulous convention. Australia hasn't had a minority government since 1940.Labor should never have faced this prospect. Under Rudd's leadership, a Labor government had steered the Australian economy through the global financial crisis. Australia was the only OECD economy that didn't experience a recession; unemployment peaked at 5%. It is remarkable that an Australian electorate would repudiate a government in such circumstances. Those who haven't been following events in Canberra in recent months are entitled to be puzzled.It was always a risk for Gillard to call an election last month after barely four weeks as PM. But after signalling from the outset that she would be seeking a mandate from the people before year's end, Gillard gave herself little room to manoeuvre.This created two problems for Labor. In the first place, Labor relinquished the advantages of incumbency. Gillard fought this campaign not as the PM but as an applicant for the office. Second, there was no time for the wounds inflicted by the June putsch to heal. Damaging leaks about Gillard's opposition to an increase in pensions and to a paid parental leave scheme, which many believe were made by an embittered Rudd (or an agent of Rudd's), undermined Labor's campaign. For almost two weeks, Labor had to defend itself against the charge that a party that can't govern itself can't govern a nation.Abbott, an enfant terrible of Australian rightwing conservatism, ran a disciplined campaign. He has dispelled doubts about his capacity to be prime minister. It has been a remarkable transformation, built on a series of shrewd strategic moves. Since deposing Malcolm Turnbull as Liberal leader, Abbott successfully cast Labor's emissions trading scheme as \"a great big new tax\", triggering a fall in popular support for climate change mitigation. His hardline stance on asylum seekers and attacks on rising government debt were linchpins of a relentlessly negative campaign effort.However, Labor's cannibalism and self-destruction represent the real story of this election. The palace coup against Rudd, engineered by factional powerbrokers, reflected a party increasingly dominated by a nihilistic, all-consuming party machine. In political terms, it deprived Labor of its most potent narrative. How could Labor run on the record of Rudd's economic management when it had deposed him? This was a question Labor strategists were never able to answer convincingly.This hung parliament brings to an end three years of Labor government characterised by gulfs between rhetoric and policy delivery. Nowhere was this more clearly demonstrated than with climate change. Rudd may have famously described climate change as \"the greatest moral challenge of our time\", but when confronted with Senate opposition he chose to abandon his emissions trading scheme legislation (rather than dissolve parliament).Labor might still manage to form a minority government. If it does, it will have had a near-death experience. If it doesn't, a return to opposition would be punishment for a term of wasted opportunities and political incompetence.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Julia Gillard", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia: Labor's wasted opportunities | Tim Soutphommasane"},{"date": "2010-09-08T05:59:58Z", "country": "australia", "content": "'So let's draw back the curtains and let the sunshine in,\" said Julia Gillard on hearing of her narrow victory in Australia's general election. \"Let our parliament be more open than it was before.\"Australia's first female prime minister scraped back into power with words which might make one imagine that she was a woman, like many others before her, who was determined to change the parliamentary system: to make it more transparent, honest and accountable; to enter a chamber that a former leader of the Democrats called \"awash with testosterone\", and bring in a stern, but comforting female presence.This is, after all, something women have promised \u2013 or threatened \u2013 to do for well over a century, from the suffragettes onwards. The irony is that this is something Gillard did not promise: she did not campaign on the grounds of her gender, and she did not claim to do politics any differently.But, strangely enough, a different kind of politics was what voters wanted after all. Now she has been forced into promising greater accountability after an excruciatingly close election, and 17 days of pleading, begging and deal-making before three independents decided who they would support, leaving Gillard's Labor party with 76 seats, the Coalition 74.Before becoming party leader, Gillard, a former lawyer with a record of fighting for the rights of workers and women, was seen as a true political operative \u2013 a party player and a knife-sharp debater. She is, primarily, a pragmatist who played the political game to perfection before grasping the top job. She was straight with the media, did not pander to any of the stereotypes Australia's political women have been trapped by before \u2013 of saints, seductresses, wide-eyed housewives who stumbled into parliament, or \"steel Sheilas\" who wanted to be like Margaret Thatcher.She also batted down personal criticism with humour. Gillard told biographer Jacqueline Kent, when she was once standing next to a board with a large photo of her: \"This old guy comes out of the supermarket, looks at me, looks at the photo, then turns back at me and says, 'Taken on a good day wasn't it, love?' I said, 'And you'd be bloody Robert Redford, would you mate?'\"Initially, the public warmed to someone who seemed authentic and real. During the election, the fact that Gillard was a woman was irrelevant and only ever a vague distraction when the snipes about the fact that she had not married her boyfriend, had no children and did not cook emerged.But overall she ran a poor election, and\u00a0lost much ground to the more disciplined leader of the Liberal party, Tony Abbott. Her uninspiring rhetoric, gaffes, and a foolish remark about allowing the \"real Julia\" to emerge halfway through the campaign (who were we seeing before?) played into often sexist smears that she was a puppet of the hard-right men of her party.The greatest problem of this election, and the reason it was so close, is that voters stopped caring; many leaving ballot papers blank. It was, in essence, the failure of small target politics, where both parties were scrambling for the middle ground and focused on attacking the other side.The time for smallness in Australian politics has surely gone. The Labor party needs to articulate a compelling worldview, to appeal not to the fearful demons but the \"better angels of our nature\", as Lincoln said. To quell racism in immigration debates, not stir it up. Unlike the US and Britain, the economy has not been the predominant concern for voters \u2013 the country almost coasted through the financial crisis \u2013 but Australians are looking for a leader who might capture their imagination.This is Gillard's challenge. She needs to show leadership on climate change and allow the conscience vote on gay marriage that the newly muscular Greens, who now hold the balance of power in the senate, would like. Australia needs a more clearly articulated foreign policy and to acknowledge its enormous dependence on exporting to\u00a0China.Gillard should also make the prime minister she deposed, Kevin Rudd, the minister for foreign affairs \u2013 given his aptitude and knowledge of the subject, his popularity, and the lingering resentment at how cynically he was toppled.Gillard has to show her substance, and demonstrate, even with such a slight majority, that her party is about more than the pursuit of power. It should not matter that she is a woman. But it does matter that voters are sick of the old boys' way of doing politics. She must show she is capable of responding to the electorate's desire for politics to be done with the transparency and openness she has promised. Perhaps she also needs to show, as Thatcher said: \"It may be the cock that crows, but it is the hen that lays the eggs.\"", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Politics", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Now advance, Australia | Julia Baird"},{"date": "2010-08-22T11:35:22Z", "country": "australia", "content": "There are few certainties left in Australian politics. Two months ago, the Labor party moved to terminate its leader, Kevin Rudd \u2013 the first time a prime minister had been toppled by his own party before facing re-election. On Saturday, it was the turn of voters to overturn one of the general laws of electoral behaviour. It has been a long time since it last happened \u2013 namely, with the Scullin Labor government in 1931 \u2013 but a government has failed to secure a second term in its own right.The result is disastrous for Labor. To be sure, a hung parliament means that Prime Minister Julia Gillard may yet form a minority government with the support of independent and Green MPs. But it is just as plausible that Liberal-conservative leader Tony Abbott may broker a minority government of his own. It may take several days, even a week, before either transpires. All this is unfamiliar territory, governed by nebulous convention. Australia hasn't had a minority government since 1940.Labor should never have faced this prospect. Under Rudd's leadership, a Labor government had steered the Australian economy through the global financial crisis. Australia was the only OECD economy that didn't experience a recession; unemployment peaked at 5%. It is remarkable that an Australian electorate would repudiate a government in such circumstances. Those who haven't been following events in Canberra in recent months are entitled to be puzzled.It was always a risk for Gillard to call an election last month after barely four weeks as PM. But after signalling from the outset that she would be seeking a mandate from the people before year's end, Gillard gave herself little room to manoeuvre.This created two problems for Labor. In the first place, Labor relinquished the advantages of incumbency. Gillard fought this campaign not as the PM but as an applicant for the office. Second, there was no time for the wounds inflicted by the June putsch to heal. Damaging leaks about Gillard's opposition to an increase in pensions and to a paid parental leave scheme, which many believe were made by an embittered Rudd (or an agent of Rudd's), undermined Labor's campaign. For almost two weeks, Labor had to defend itself against the charge that a party that can't govern itself can't govern a nation.Abbott, an enfant terrible of Australian rightwing conservatism, ran a disciplined campaign. He has dispelled doubts about his capacity to be prime minister. It has been a remarkable transformation, built on a series of shrewd strategic moves. Since deposing Malcolm Turnbull as Liberal leader, Abbott successfully cast Labor's emissions trading scheme as \"a great big new tax\", triggering a fall in popular support for climate change mitigation. His hardline stance on asylum seekers and attacks on rising government debt were linchpins of a relentlessly negative campaign effort.However, Labor's cannibalism and self-destruction represent the real story of this election. The palace coup against Rudd, engineered by factional powerbrokers, reflected a party increasingly dominated by a nihilistic, all-consuming party machine. In political terms, it deprived Labor of its most potent narrative. How could Labor run on the record of Rudd's economic management when it had deposed him? This was a question Labor strategists were never able to answer convincingly.This hung parliament brings to an end three years of Labor government characterised by gulfs between rhetoric and policy delivery. Nowhere was this more clearly demonstrated than with climate change. Rudd may have famously described climate change as \"the greatest moral challenge of our time\", but when confronted with Senate opposition he chose to abandon his emissions trading scheme legislation (rather than dissolve parliament).Labor might still manage to form a minority government. If it does, it will have had a near-death experience. If it doesn't, a return to opposition would be punishment for a term of wasted opportunities and political incompetence.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Julia Gillard", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia: Labor's wasted opportunities | Tim Soutphommasane"},{"date": "2010-08-24T10:00:20Z", "country": "australia", "content": "If conservative leader Tony Abbott emerges victorious from this week's Australian electoral wrangling, he will be the island continent's sixth Catholic prime minister and the first of those to have been born in England.All five of his predecessors raised in the Catholic tradition were of Irish extraction at one generation's remove: James Scullin (from 1929 to 1932), Joe Lyons (1932-39), Frank Forde (1945), Ben Chifley (1946-49) and Paul Keating (1991-96).Anyone who has visited the laid-back hedonists' paradise that is modern Australia might be excused for doubting that this secular society could care, in the way that, say, the American electorate cares, what religious beliefs its leaders hold. It was treated almost as an aside when, soon after becoming Prime Minister in a party-room coup two months ago, Tony Abbott's rival \u2013 Julia Gillard \u2013 told a talkback radio host in Melbourne that she was an atheist.Her political instincts, however, are famously acute, which may explain why Gillard \u2013 the daughter of 1960s immigrants from South Wales who raised her as a Baptist \u2013 went on to make a virtue of her candour, saying she would not pretend to \"a faith I do not feel\".Disregarding the question whether professions of religious conviction by politicians influence Christian voters to render unto Caesar an allegiance that belongs to a higher power, her refusal to disguise unbelief in the name of expediency was shrewd in a nation where Catholics have been the largest group of believers since they surpassed Anglicans in number more than two decades ago. Census data show one-quarter of Australia's self-described believers are Catholics.Cynical realists point out that they are disproportionately numerous in the western suburbs of Sydney, one of the main battlegrounds in this year's poll.If Abbott does gain the support of enough independents to become PM he will create a first of his own. No previous incumbent of The Lodge (Australia's equivalent to No. 10) had trained as a priest: none therefore had acquired his sobriquet of the Mad Monk.At the age of 26, Abbott was accepted as a novitiate at St Patrick's Seminary in the northern Sydney beach suburb of Manly. The tabloid press would later play merry hell with allegations that as a youth Abbott resembled St Augustine before he found sanctity, fathering a son out of wedlock at the age of 19, a presumption of paternity the man himself shared until DNA tests proved otherwise just six years ago.Never ordained, Abbott decided \u2013 apparently without any crisis of faith \u2013 that his life's calling lay elsewhere. He soon turned to journalism, writing for publications ranging from The Catholic Weekly to Rupert Murdoch's flagship newspaper, The Australian.As a politician he has consistently, if unostentatiously, taken what he would call moral \u2013 and others brand as boilerplate right-wing \u2013 positions in the most contentious areas of public policy from euthanasia \u2010 absolutely opposed \u2013 and abortion \u2013 opposed in almost all circumstances \u2013 to same-sex marriage.In spite of his principles, Abbott does not go about the country with a holier-than-thou attitude. He knew better than to attack his opponent as godless. Candidates for public office Down Under do well to hide their light under a bushel.It was not always so. In a nation whose parliamentary sitting days invariably begin with the Lord's Prayer and descend into the pit from there, the pulling power of religious loyalty in generations past was undoubtedly much stronger. It was so in 1917, when the Irish-born Archbishop of Melbourne, Daniel Mannix, crusaded successfully against a referendum to conscript Australians to join the volunteers fighting alongside the Tommies in the trenches of the Western Front; and still so when he and other prelates supported, and narrowly failed to secure, a ban on the Communist Party, in the mid-century.But the single most influential role Catholics played in the nation's history transcended a single moment, defining a political epoch instead: from the mid-1950s until the early '70s the Liberal (conservative) government was kept in office by a schism within the Australian Labor Party promoted by a traditionalist Catholic and vocal critic of Vatican II, Bob Santamaria.Himself a confidant of Archbishop Mannix \u2013 who remained an intensely conservative political force right up until his death at the age of 99 \u2013 Santamaria in his own old age became a \"father figure\" to the politically ascendant ex-seminarian.Ten years after his patron's death in 1998, a waspish Abbott spooked straitlaced political observers by remarking that on some policy issues he was \"channelling\" Santamaria. He grinned while saying it but no one was really sure if he was joking.", "tags": ["Religion", "Christianity", "Catholicism", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Catholic candidate in Australia | Ken Haley"},{"date": "2010-09-08T05:59:58Z", "country": "australia", "content": "'So let's draw back the curtains and let the sunshine in,\" said Julia Gillard on hearing of her narrow victory in Australia's general election. \"Let our parliament be more open than it was before.\"Australia's first female prime minister scraped back into power with words which might make one imagine that she was a woman, like many others before her, who was determined to change the parliamentary system: to make it more transparent, honest and accountable; to enter a chamber that a former leader of the Democrats called \"awash with testosterone\", and bring in a stern, but comforting female presence.This is, after all, something women have promised \u2013 or threatened \u2013 to do for well over a century, from the suffragettes onwards. The irony is that this is something Gillard did not promise: she did not campaign on the grounds of her gender, and she did not claim to do politics any differently.But, strangely enough, a different kind of politics was what voters wanted after all. Now she has been forced into promising greater accountability after an excruciatingly close election, and 17 days of pleading, begging and deal-making before three independents decided who they would support, leaving Gillard's Labor party with 76 seats, the Coalition 74.Before becoming party leader, Gillard, a former lawyer with a record of fighting for the rights of workers and women, was seen as a true political operative \u2013 a party player and a knife-sharp debater. She is, primarily, a pragmatist who played the political game to perfection before grasping the top job. She was straight with the media, did not pander to any of the stereotypes Australia's political women have been trapped by before \u2013 of saints, seductresses, wide-eyed housewives who stumbled into parliament, or \"steel Sheilas\" who wanted to be like Margaret Thatcher.She also batted down personal criticism with humour. Gillard told biographer Jacqueline Kent, when she was once standing next to a board with a large photo of her: \"This old guy comes out of the supermarket, looks at me, looks at the photo, then turns back at me and says, 'Taken on a good day wasn't it, love?' I said, 'And you'd be bloody Robert Redford, would you mate?'\"Initially, the public warmed to someone who seemed authentic and real. During the election, the fact that Gillard was a woman was irrelevant and only ever a vague distraction when the snipes about the fact that she had not married her boyfriend, had no children and did not cook emerged.But overall she ran a poor election, and\u00a0lost much ground to the more disciplined leader of the Liberal party, Tony Abbott. Her uninspiring rhetoric, gaffes, and a foolish remark about allowing the \"real Julia\" to emerge halfway through the campaign (who were we seeing before?) played into often sexist smears that she was a puppet of the hard-right men of her party.The greatest problem of this election, and the reason it was so close, is that voters stopped caring; many leaving ballot papers blank. It was, in essence, the failure of small target politics, where both parties were scrambling for the middle ground and focused on attacking the other side.The time for smallness in Australian politics has surely gone. The Labor party needs to articulate a compelling worldview, to appeal not to the fearful demons but the \"better angels of our nature\", as Lincoln said. To quell racism in immigration debates, not stir it up. Unlike the US and Britain, the economy has not been the predominant concern for voters \u2013 the country almost coasted through the financial crisis \u2013 but Australians are looking for a leader who might capture their imagination.This is Gillard's challenge. She needs to show leadership on climate change and allow the conscience vote on gay marriage that the newly muscular Greens, who now hold the balance of power in the senate, would like. Australia needs a more clearly articulated foreign policy and to acknowledge its enormous dependence on exporting to\u00a0China.Gillard should also make the prime minister she deposed, Kevin Rudd, the minister for foreign affairs \u2013 given his aptitude and knowledge of the subject, his popularity, and the lingering resentment at how cynically he was toppled.Gillard has to show her substance, and demonstrate, even with such a slight majority, that her party is about more than the pursuit of power. It should not matter that she is a woman. But it does matter that voters are sick of the old boys' way of doing politics. She must show she is capable of responding to the electorate's desire for politics to be done with the transparency and openness she has promised. Perhaps she also needs to show, as Thatcher said: \"It may be the cock that crows, but it is the hen that lays the eggs.\"", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Politics", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Now advance, Australia | Julia Baird"},{"date": "2010-08-22T11:35:22Z", "country": "australia", "content": "There are few certainties left in Australian politics. Two months ago, the Labor party moved to terminate its leader, Kevin Rudd \u2013 the first time a prime minister had been toppled by his own party before facing re-election. On Saturday, it was the turn of voters to overturn one of the general laws of electoral behaviour. It has been a long time since it last happened \u2013 namely, with the Scullin Labor government in 1931 \u2013 but a government has failed to secure a second term in its own right.The result is disastrous for Labor. To be sure, a hung parliament means that Prime Minister Julia Gillard may yet form a minority government with the support of independent and Green MPs. But it is just as plausible that Liberal-conservative leader Tony Abbott may broker a minority government of his own. It may take several days, even a week, before either transpires. All this is unfamiliar territory, governed by nebulous convention. Australia hasn't had a minority government since 1940.Labor should never have faced this prospect. Under Rudd's leadership, a Labor government had steered the Australian economy through the global financial crisis. Australia was the only OECD economy that didn't experience a recession; unemployment peaked at 5%. It is remarkable that an Australian electorate would repudiate a government in such circumstances. Those who haven't been following events in Canberra in recent months are entitled to be puzzled.It was always a risk for Gillard to call an election last month after barely four weeks as PM. But after signalling from the outset that she would be seeking a mandate from the people before year's end, Gillard gave herself little room to manoeuvre.This created two problems for Labor. In the first place, Labor relinquished the advantages of incumbency. Gillard fought this campaign not as the PM but as an applicant for the office. Second, there was no time for the wounds inflicted by the June putsch to heal. Damaging leaks about Gillard's opposition to an increase in pensions and to a paid parental leave scheme, which many believe were made by an embittered Rudd (or an agent of Rudd's), undermined Labor's campaign. For almost two weeks, Labor had to defend itself against the charge that a party that can't govern itself can't govern a nation.Abbott, an enfant terrible of Australian rightwing conservatism, ran a disciplined campaign. He has dispelled doubts about his capacity to be prime minister. It has been a remarkable transformation, built on a series of shrewd strategic moves. Since deposing Malcolm Turnbull as Liberal leader, Abbott successfully cast Labor's emissions trading scheme as \"a great big new tax\", triggering a fall in popular support for climate change mitigation. His hardline stance on asylum seekers and attacks on rising government debt were linchpins of a relentlessly negative campaign effort.However, Labor's cannibalism and self-destruction represent the real story of this election. The palace coup against Rudd, engineered by factional powerbrokers, reflected a party increasingly dominated by a nihilistic, all-consuming party machine. In political terms, it deprived Labor of its most potent narrative. How could Labor run on the record of Rudd's economic management when it had deposed him? This was a question Labor strategists were never able to answer convincingly.This hung parliament brings to an end three years of Labor government characterised by gulfs between rhetoric and policy delivery. Nowhere was this more clearly demonstrated than with climate change. Rudd may have famously described climate change as \"the greatest moral challenge of our time\", but when confronted with Senate opposition he chose to abandon his emissions trading scheme legislation (rather than dissolve parliament).Labor might still manage to form a minority government. If it does, it will have had a near-death experience. If it doesn't, a return to opposition would be punishment for a term of wasted opportunities and political incompetence.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Julia Gillard", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia: Labor's wasted opportunities | Tim Soutphommasane"},{"date": "2010-08-24T10:00:20Z", "country": "australia", "content": "If conservative leader Tony Abbott emerges victorious from this week's Australian electoral wrangling, he will be the island continent's sixth Catholic prime minister and the first of those to have been born in England.All five of his predecessors raised in the Catholic tradition were of Irish extraction at one generation's remove: James Scullin (from 1929 to 1932), Joe Lyons (1932-39), Frank Forde (1945), Ben Chifley (1946-49) and Paul Keating (1991-96).Anyone who has visited the laid-back hedonists' paradise that is modern Australia might be excused for doubting that this secular society could care, in the way that, say, the American electorate cares, what religious beliefs its leaders hold. It was treated almost as an aside when, soon after becoming Prime Minister in a party-room coup two months ago, Tony Abbott's rival \u2013 Julia Gillard \u2013 told a talkback radio host in Melbourne that she was an atheist.Her political instincts, however, are famously acute, which may explain why Gillard \u2013 the daughter of 1960s immigrants from South Wales who raised her as a Baptist \u2013 went on to make a virtue of her candour, saying she would not pretend to \"a faith I do not feel\".Disregarding the question whether professions of religious conviction by politicians influence Christian voters to render unto Caesar an allegiance that belongs to a higher power, her refusal to disguise unbelief in the name of expediency was shrewd in a nation where Catholics have been the largest group of believers since they surpassed Anglicans in number more than two decades ago. Census data show one-quarter of Australia's self-described believers are Catholics.Cynical realists point out that they are disproportionately numerous in the western suburbs of Sydney, one of the main battlegrounds in this year's poll.If Abbott does gain the support of enough independents to become PM he will create a first of his own. No previous incumbent of The Lodge (Australia's equivalent to No. 10) had trained as a priest: none therefore had acquired his sobriquet of the Mad Monk.At the age of 26, Abbott was accepted as a novitiate at St Patrick's Seminary in the northern Sydney beach suburb of Manly. The tabloid press would later play merry hell with allegations that as a youth Abbott resembled St Augustine before he found sanctity, fathering a son out of wedlock at the age of 19, a presumption of paternity the man himself shared until DNA tests proved otherwise just six years ago.Never ordained, Abbott decided \u2013 apparently without any crisis of faith \u2013 that his life's calling lay elsewhere. He soon turned to journalism, writing for publications ranging from The Catholic Weekly to Rupert Murdoch's flagship newspaper, The Australian.As a politician he has consistently, if unostentatiously, taken what he would call moral \u2013 and others brand as boilerplate right-wing \u2013 positions in the most contentious areas of public policy from euthanasia \u2010 absolutely opposed \u2013 and abortion \u2013 opposed in almost all circumstances \u2013 to same-sex marriage.In spite of his principles, Abbott does not go about the country with a holier-than-thou attitude. He knew better than to attack his opponent as godless. Candidates for public office Down Under do well to hide their light under a bushel.It was not always so. In a nation whose parliamentary sitting days invariably begin with the Lord's Prayer and descend into the pit from there, the pulling power of religious loyalty in generations past was undoubtedly much stronger. It was so in 1917, when the Irish-born Archbishop of Melbourne, Daniel Mannix, crusaded successfully against a referendum to conscript Australians to join the volunteers fighting alongside the Tommies in the trenches of the Western Front; and still so when he and other prelates supported, and narrowly failed to secure, a ban on the Communist Party, in the mid-century.But the single most influential role Catholics played in the nation's history transcended a single moment, defining a political epoch instead: from the mid-1950s until the early '70s the Liberal (conservative) government was kept in office by a schism within the Australian Labor Party promoted by a traditionalist Catholic and vocal critic of Vatican II, Bob Santamaria.Himself a confidant of Archbishop Mannix \u2013 who remained an intensely conservative political force right up until his death at the age of 99 \u2013 Santamaria in his own old age became a \"father figure\" to the politically ascendant ex-seminarian.Ten years after his patron's death in 1998, a waspish Abbott spooked straitlaced political observers by remarking that on some policy issues he was \"channelling\" Santamaria. He grinned while saying it but no one was really sure if he was joking.", "tags": ["Religion", "Christianity", "Catholicism", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Catholic candidate in Australia | Ken Haley"},{"date": "2010-09-13T15:12:38Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia has banned a television advert arguing for euthanasia, featuring an actor playing a man with a terminal illness asking to be allowed die with dignity.The advert was made by the lobby group Exit International to relaunch the debate in Australia on the right to die, 14 years after the Northern Territory government became the first in the world to introduce a voluntary euthanasia law, only to see it overturned by the federal authorities.The last time a similar advert was shown on Australian television was more than 10 years ago. It featured a woman suffering from what she believed was terminal bladder cancer pleading to be allowed to die. Her disease went into remission and the case became a rallying cry for the anti-euthanasia lobby.In the new advert, which has been banned by the broadcasting regulators on the grounds that it promotes suicide, which is illegal, the man argues: \"I chose to marry Tina, have two great kids. I chose to always drive a Ford. What I didn't choose was being terminally ill. I didn't choose to starve to death because eating is like swallowing razor blades.\"And I certainly didn't choose to have to watch my family go through it with me. I've made my final choice. I just need the government to listen.\"Philip Nitschke, director of Exit International, told the Age the ban violated the right to free speech, and said his group would relaunch a new version of the ad within days.The right to die has become the subject of agonised debate in many countries. In the UK, terminally ill Diane Pretty sought legal assurance that her husband would not be prosecuted for helping her to die.An increasing number of individuals are circumventing local laws by travelling to the Dignitas clinic in Switzerland, where they are given medical advice and assistance to commit suicide, which is legal under Swiss law. This month, two people were arrested for accompanying a disabled man who lived in a Tyneside care home to the Zurich clinic.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Assisted dying", "Advertising", "World news", "Society", "Media", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia bans pro-euthanasia TV advert"},{"date": "2010-09-08T05:59:58Z", "country": "australia", "content": "'So let's draw back the curtains and let the sunshine in,\" said Julia Gillard on hearing of her narrow victory in Australia's general election. \"Let our parliament be more open than it was before.\"Australia's first female prime minister scraped back into power with words which might make one imagine that she was a woman, like many others before her, who was determined to change the parliamentary system: to make it more transparent, honest and accountable; to enter a chamber that a former leader of the Democrats called \"awash with testosterone\", and bring in a stern, but comforting female presence.This is, after all, something women have promised \u2013 or threatened \u2013 to do for well over a century, from the suffragettes onwards. The irony is that this is something Gillard did not promise: she did not campaign on the grounds of her gender, and she did not claim to do politics any differently.But, strangely enough, a different kind of politics was what voters wanted after all. Now she has been forced into promising greater accountability after an excruciatingly close election, and 17 days of pleading, begging and deal-making before three independents decided who they would support, leaving Gillard's Labor party with 76 seats, the Coalition 74.Before becoming party leader, Gillard, a former lawyer with a record of fighting for the rights of workers and women, was seen as a true political operative \u2013 a party player and a knife-sharp debater. She is, primarily, a pragmatist who played the political game to perfection before grasping the top job. She was straight with the media, did not pander to any of the stereotypes Australia's political women have been trapped by before \u2013 of saints, seductresses, wide-eyed housewives who stumbled into parliament, or \"steel Sheilas\" who wanted to be like Margaret Thatcher.She also batted down personal criticism with humour. Gillard told biographer Jacqueline Kent, when she was once standing next to a board with a large photo of her: \"This old guy comes out of the supermarket, looks at me, looks at the photo, then turns back at me and says, 'Taken on a good day wasn't it, love?' I said, 'And you'd be bloody Robert Redford, would you mate?'\"Initially, the public warmed to someone who seemed authentic and real. During the election, the fact that Gillard was a woman was irrelevant and only ever a vague distraction when the snipes about the fact that she had not married her boyfriend, had no children and did not cook emerged.But overall she ran a poor election, and\u00a0lost much ground to the more disciplined leader of the Liberal party, Tony Abbott. Her uninspiring rhetoric, gaffes, and a foolish remark about allowing the \"real Julia\" to emerge halfway through the campaign (who were we seeing before?) played into often sexist smears that she was a puppet of the hard-right men of her party.The greatest problem of this election, and the reason it was so close, is that voters stopped caring; many leaving ballot papers blank. It was, in essence, the failure of small target politics, where both parties were scrambling for the middle ground and focused on attacking the other side.The time for smallness in Australian politics has surely gone. The Labor party needs to articulate a compelling worldview, to appeal not to the fearful demons but the \"better angels of our nature\", as Lincoln said. To quell racism in immigration debates, not stir it up. Unlike the US and Britain, the economy has not been the predominant concern for voters \u2013 the country almost coasted through the financial crisis \u2013 but Australians are looking for a leader who might capture their imagination.This is Gillard's challenge. She needs to show leadership on climate change and allow the conscience vote on gay marriage that the newly muscular Greens, who now hold the balance of power in the senate, would like. Australia needs a more clearly articulated foreign policy and to acknowledge its enormous dependence on exporting to\u00a0China.Gillard should also make the prime minister she deposed, Kevin Rudd, the minister for foreign affairs \u2013 given his aptitude and knowledge of the subject, his popularity, and the lingering resentment at how cynically he was toppled.Gillard has to show her substance, and demonstrate, even with such a slight majority, that her party is about more than the pursuit of power. It should not matter that she is a woman. But it does matter that voters are sick of the old boys' way of doing politics. She must show she is capable of responding to the electorate's desire for politics to be done with the transparency and openness she has promised. Perhaps she also needs to show, as Thatcher said: \"It may be the cock that crows, but it is the hen that lays the eggs.\"", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Politics", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Now advance, Australia | Julia Baird"},{"date": "2010-08-22T11:35:22Z", "country": "australia", "content": "There are few certainties left in Australian politics. Two months ago, the Labor party moved to terminate its leader, Kevin Rudd \u2013 the first time a prime minister had been toppled by his own party before facing re-election. On Saturday, it was the turn of voters to overturn one of the general laws of electoral behaviour. It has been a long time since it last happened \u2013 namely, with the Scullin Labor government in 1931 \u2013 but a government has failed to secure a second term in its own right.The result is disastrous for Labor. To be sure, a hung parliament means that Prime Minister Julia Gillard may yet form a minority government with the support of independent and Green MPs. But it is just as plausible that Liberal-conservative leader Tony Abbott may broker a minority government of his own. It may take several days, even a week, before either transpires. All this is unfamiliar territory, governed by nebulous convention. Australia hasn't had a minority government since 1940.Labor should never have faced this prospect. Under Rudd's leadership, a Labor government had steered the Australian economy through the global financial crisis. Australia was the only OECD economy that didn't experience a recession; unemployment peaked at 5%. It is remarkable that an Australian electorate would repudiate a government in such circumstances. Those who haven't been following events in Canberra in recent months are entitled to be puzzled.It was always a risk for Gillard to call an election last month after barely four weeks as PM. But after signalling from the outset that she would be seeking a mandate from the people before year's end, Gillard gave herself little room to manoeuvre.This created two problems for Labor. In the first place, Labor relinquished the advantages of incumbency. Gillard fought this campaign not as the PM but as an applicant for the office. Second, there was no time for the wounds inflicted by the June putsch to heal. Damaging leaks about Gillard's opposition to an increase in pensions and to a paid parental leave scheme, which many believe were made by an embittered Rudd (or an agent of Rudd's), undermined Labor's campaign. For almost two weeks, Labor had to defend itself against the charge that a party that can't govern itself can't govern a nation.Abbott, an enfant terrible of Australian rightwing conservatism, ran a disciplined campaign. He has dispelled doubts about his capacity to be prime minister. It has been a remarkable transformation, built on a series of shrewd strategic moves. Since deposing Malcolm Turnbull as Liberal leader, Abbott successfully cast Labor's emissions trading scheme as \"a great big new tax\", triggering a fall in popular support for climate change mitigation. His hardline stance on asylum seekers and attacks on rising government debt were linchpins of a relentlessly negative campaign effort.However, Labor's cannibalism and self-destruction represent the real story of this election. The palace coup against Rudd, engineered by factional powerbrokers, reflected a party increasingly dominated by a nihilistic, all-consuming party machine. In political terms, it deprived Labor of its most potent narrative. How could Labor run on the record of Rudd's economic management when it had deposed him? This was a question Labor strategists were never able to answer convincingly.This hung parliament brings to an end three years of Labor government characterised by gulfs between rhetoric and policy delivery. Nowhere was this more clearly demonstrated than with climate change. Rudd may have famously described climate change as \"the greatest moral challenge of our time\", but when confronted with Senate opposition he chose to abandon his emissions trading scheme legislation (rather than dissolve parliament).Labor might still manage to form a minority government. If it does, it will have had a near-death experience. If it doesn't, a return to opposition would be punishment for a term of wasted opportunities and political incompetence.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Julia Gillard", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia: Labor's wasted opportunities | Tim Soutphommasane"},{"date": "2010-08-24T10:00:20Z", "country": "australia", "content": "If conservative leader Tony Abbott emerges victorious from this week's Australian electoral wrangling, he will be the island continent's sixth Catholic prime minister and the first of those to have been born in England.All five of his predecessors raised in the Catholic tradition were of Irish extraction at one generation's remove: James Scullin (from 1929 to 1932), Joe Lyons (1932-39), Frank Forde (1945), Ben Chifley (1946-49) and Paul Keating (1991-96).Anyone who has visited the laid-back hedonists' paradise that is modern Australia might be excused for doubting that this secular society could care, in the way that, say, the American electorate cares, what religious beliefs its leaders hold. It was treated almost as an aside when, soon after becoming Prime Minister in a party-room coup two months ago, Tony Abbott's rival \u2013 Julia Gillard \u2013 told a talkback radio host in Melbourne that she was an atheist.Her political instincts, however, are famously acute, which may explain why Gillard \u2013 the daughter of 1960s immigrants from South Wales who raised her as a Baptist \u2013 went on to make a virtue of her candour, saying she would not pretend to \"a faith I do not feel\".Disregarding the question whether professions of religious conviction by politicians influence Christian voters to render unto Caesar an allegiance that belongs to a higher power, her refusal to disguise unbelief in the name of expediency was shrewd in a nation where Catholics have been the largest group of believers since they surpassed Anglicans in number more than two decades ago. Census data show one-quarter of Australia's self-described believers are Catholics.Cynical realists point out that they are disproportionately numerous in the western suburbs of Sydney, one of the main battlegrounds in this year's poll.If Abbott does gain the support of enough independents to become PM he will create a first of his own. No previous incumbent of The Lodge (Australia's equivalent to No. 10) had trained as a priest: none therefore had acquired his sobriquet of the Mad Monk.At the age of 26, Abbott was accepted as a novitiate at St Patrick's Seminary in the northern Sydney beach suburb of Manly. The tabloid press would later play merry hell with allegations that as a youth Abbott resembled St Augustine before he found sanctity, fathering a son out of wedlock at the age of 19, a presumption of paternity the man himself shared until DNA tests proved otherwise just six years ago.Never ordained, Abbott decided \u2013 apparently without any crisis of faith \u2013 that his life's calling lay elsewhere. He soon turned to journalism, writing for publications ranging from The Catholic Weekly to Rupert Murdoch's flagship newspaper, The Australian.As a politician he has consistently, if unostentatiously, taken what he would call moral \u2013 and others brand as boilerplate right-wing \u2013 positions in the most contentious areas of public policy from euthanasia \u2010 absolutely opposed \u2013 and abortion \u2013 opposed in almost all circumstances \u2013 to same-sex marriage.In spite of his principles, Abbott does not go about the country with a holier-than-thou attitude. He knew better than to attack his opponent as godless. Candidates for public office Down Under do well to hide their light under a bushel.It was not always so. In a nation whose parliamentary sitting days invariably begin with the Lord's Prayer and descend into the pit from there, the pulling power of religious loyalty in generations past was undoubtedly much stronger. It was so in 1917, when the Irish-born Archbishop of Melbourne, Daniel Mannix, crusaded successfully against a referendum to conscript Australians to join the volunteers fighting alongside the Tommies in the trenches of the Western Front; and still so when he and other prelates supported, and narrowly failed to secure, a ban on the Communist Party, in the mid-century.But the single most influential role Catholics played in the nation's history transcended a single moment, defining a political epoch instead: from the mid-1950s until the early '70s the Liberal (conservative) government was kept in office by a schism within the Australian Labor Party promoted by a traditionalist Catholic and vocal critic of Vatican II, Bob Santamaria.Himself a confidant of Archbishop Mannix \u2013 who remained an intensely conservative political force right up until his death at the age of 99 \u2013 Santamaria in his own old age became a \"father figure\" to the politically ascendant ex-seminarian.Ten years after his patron's death in 1998, a waspish Abbott spooked straitlaced political observers by remarking that on some policy issues he was \"channelling\" Santamaria. He grinned while saying it but no one was really sure if he was joking.", "tags": ["Religion", "Christianity", "Catholicism", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Catholic candidate in Australia | Ken Haley"},{"date": "2010-09-13T15:12:38Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia has banned a television advert arguing for euthanasia, featuring an actor playing a man with a terminal illness asking to be allowed die with dignity.The advert was made by the lobby group Exit International to relaunch the debate in Australia on the right to die, 14 years after the Northern Territory government became the first in the world to introduce a voluntary euthanasia law, only to see it overturned by the federal authorities.The last time a similar advert was shown on Australian television was more than 10 years ago. It featured a woman suffering from what she believed was terminal bladder cancer pleading to be allowed to die. Her disease went into remission and the case became a rallying cry for the anti-euthanasia lobby.In the new advert, which has been banned by the broadcasting regulators on the grounds that it promotes suicide, which is illegal, the man argues: \"I chose to marry Tina, have two great kids. I chose to always drive a Ford. What I didn't choose was being terminally ill. I didn't choose to starve to death because eating is like swallowing razor blades.\"And I certainly didn't choose to have to watch my family go through it with me. I've made my final choice. I just need the government to listen.\"Philip Nitschke, director of Exit International, told the Age the ban violated the right to free speech, and said his group would relaunch a new version of the ad within days.The right to die has become the subject of agonised debate in many countries. In the UK, terminally ill Diane Pretty sought legal assurance that her husband would not be prosecuted for helping her to die.An increasing number of individuals are circumventing local laws by travelling to the Dignitas clinic in Switzerland, where they are given medical advice and assistance to commit suicide, which is legal under Swiss law. This month, two people were arrested for accompanying a disabled man who lived in a Tyneside care home to the Zurich clinic.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Assisted dying", "Advertising", "World news", "Society", "Media", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia bans pro-euthanasia TV advert"},{"date": "2010-08-22T23:04:02Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's election results are a puzzle. Here was a Labor government which had breasted the world financial crisis better than almost any other developed state. Here was an administration facing up to the realities of Australia's environmental situation, the constraints represented by the country's limited water supplies and agricultural land, and its vulnerability to fire, flood, drought and other hazards made worse by global warming. Here was a leadership with plans to impose more realistic taxes on the extractive industries that control the nation's most important assets. Here was a government, in other words, ready to discard the myth of \"Big Australia\", of a nation that could be pumped up to super-size by immigration and the breakneck exploitation of its mineral resources, and settle for a more modest vision of the future. And this reining-in carried with it the possibility of attending more effectively to the social inequality that had been increasing in Australia in recent years.In all this it had the broad backing of most of the electorate. So how did this translate into a performance at the polls so dismal that the Australian Labor party is either headed for opposition, or, if it stays in power, will have only a tiny majority provided by a handful of independent MPs and one Green? The answer is a cautionary tale involving the power of Australia's mining and energy industries, the loss of nerve in the face of that power by two Labor leaders in succession, and the determination of the leader of the opposition Liberal National party.Kevin Rudd was a popular prime minister who lost his popularity, and then his job, because he could not get his way on his policies, in particular an emissions trading scheme, without calling for a double dissolution of parliament and going to the country on the issue. Because he could not bring himself to take the risk, some Australians saw him as lacking in guts, while colleagues in the party saw an opportunity, or a need, to get rid of a leader supposedly becoming a liability. They brought him down, a black mark against them for many voters who saw disloyalty rather than political necessity in the change. Julia Gillard, his successor, compounded the problem by running an election campaign that lacked focus, failed to underline Labor's considerable achievements in limiting the impact of the global financial crisis on the country, and fudged the global warming issues. She also initially locked up Rudd in his own constituency, allowing him to campaign nationally only after leaks about the plotting that had led to his deposition damagingly highlighted that murky period in the minds of voters. The industrial lobbies inevitably threw their weight into the contest, while the new Liberal leader, Tony Abbott, ran a largely negative but shrewd campaign that capitalised on Labor's mistakes without offering much of a target to his opponents. Labor's initial lead shrank in the last weeks of the campaign and a partial recovery came too late to make any difference.Australian eyes are already straying across the oceans to Britain, where a coalition government seems to be managing well enough. But the parallels are limited. The handful of MPs who can make a difference in the lower house there are from very different points in the political spectrum. There would be no coherence in a Labor-led coalition or minority government with, or supported by, independents whose leaning is toward the right.But, equally, a bargain between the much-strengthened Greens and the Liberals would be very hard to strike, given their fundamental differences on environmental matters. No doubt something will be bodged up, but in the longer term Australia needs political renewal. A choice between one party that persists in throwing away its advantages and another that persists in ignoring critical issues is not much of a choice.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Julia Gillard", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia: How to lose an election | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-09-08T05:59:58Z", "country": "australia", "content": "'So let's draw back the curtains and let the sunshine in,\" said Julia Gillard on hearing of her narrow victory in Australia's general election. \"Let our parliament be more open than it was before.\"Australia's first female prime minister scraped back into power with words which might make one imagine that she was a woman, like many others before her, who was determined to change the parliamentary system: to make it more transparent, honest and accountable; to enter a chamber that a former leader of the Democrats called \"awash with testosterone\", and bring in a stern, but comforting female presence.This is, after all, something women have promised \u2013 or threatened \u2013 to do for well over a century, from the suffragettes onwards. The irony is that this is something Gillard did not promise: she did not campaign on the grounds of her gender, and she did not claim to do politics any differently.But, strangely enough, a different kind of politics was what voters wanted after all. Now she has been forced into promising greater accountability after an excruciatingly close election, and 17 days of pleading, begging and deal-making before three independents decided who they would support, leaving Gillard's Labor party with 76 seats, the Coalition 74.Before becoming party leader, Gillard, a former lawyer with a record of fighting for the rights of workers and women, was seen as a true political operative \u2013 a party player and a knife-sharp debater. She is, primarily, a pragmatist who played the political game to perfection before grasping the top job. She was straight with the media, did not pander to any of the stereotypes Australia's political women have been trapped by before \u2013 of saints, seductresses, wide-eyed housewives who stumbled into parliament, or \"steel Sheilas\" who wanted to be like Margaret Thatcher.She also batted down personal criticism with humour. Gillard told biographer Jacqueline Kent, when she was once standing next to a board with a large photo of her: \"This old guy comes out of the supermarket, looks at me, looks at the photo, then turns back at me and says, 'Taken on a good day wasn't it, love?' I said, 'And you'd be bloody Robert Redford, would you mate?'\"Initially, the public warmed to someone who seemed authentic and real. During the election, the fact that Gillard was a woman was irrelevant and only ever a vague distraction when the snipes about the fact that she had not married her boyfriend, had no children and did not cook emerged.But overall she ran a poor election, and\u00a0lost much ground to the more disciplined leader of the Liberal party, Tony Abbott. Her uninspiring rhetoric, gaffes, and a foolish remark about allowing the \"real Julia\" to emerge halfway through the campaign (who were we seeing before?) played into often sexist smears that she was a puppet of the hard-right men of her party.The greatest problem of this election, and the reason it was so close, is that voters stopped caring; many leaving ballot papers blank. It was, in essence, the failure of small target politics, where both parties were scrambling for the middle ground and focused on attacking the other side.The time for smallness in Australian politics has surely gone. The Labor party needs to articulate a compelling worldview, to appeal not to the fearful demons but the \"better angels of our nature\", as Lincoln said. To quell racism in immigration debates, not stir it up. Unlike the US and Britain, the economy has not been the predominant concern for voters \u2013 the country almost coasted through the financial crisis \u2013 but Australians are looking for a leader who might capture their imagination.This is Gillard's challenge. She needs to show leadership on climate change and allow the conscience vote on gay marriage that the newly muscular Greens, who now hold the balance of power in the senate, would like. Australia needs a more clearly articulated foreign policy and to acknowledge its enormous dependence on exporting to\u00a0China.Gillard should also make the prime minister she deposed, Kevin Rudd, the minister for foreign affairs \u2013 given his aptitude and knowledge of the subject, his popularity, and the lingering resentment at how cynically he was toppled.Gillard has to show her substance, and demonstrate, even with such a slight majority, that her party is about more than the pursuit of power. It should not matter that she is a woman. But it does matter that voters are sick of the old boys' way of doing politics. She must show she is capable of responding to the electorate's desire for politics to be done with the transparency and openness she has promised. Perhaps she also needs to show, as Thatcher said: \"It may be the cock that crows, but it is the hen that lays the eggs.\"", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Politics", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Now advance, Australia | Julia Baird"},{"date": "2010-08-22T11:35:22Z", "country": "australia", "content": "There are few certainties left in Australian politics. Two months ago, the Labor party moved to terminate its leader, Kevin Rudd \u2013 the first time a prime minister had been toppled by his own party before facing re-election. On Saturday, it was the turn of voters to overturn one of the general laws of electoral behaviour. It has been a long time since it last happened \u2013 namely, with the Scullin Labor government in 1931 \u2013 but a government has failed to secure a second term in its own right.The result is disastrous for Labor. To be sure, a hung parliament means that Prime Minister Julia Gillard may yet form a minority government with the support of independent and Green MPs. But it is just as plausible that Liberal-conservative leader Tony Abbott may broker a minority government of his own. It may take several days, even a week, before either transpires. All this is unfamiliar territory, governed by nebulous convention. Australia hasn't had a minority government since 1940.Labor should never have faced this prospect. Under Rudd's leadership, a Labor government had steered the Australian economy through the global financial crisis. Australia was the only OECD economy that didn't experience a recession; unemployment peaked at 5%. It is remarkable that an Australian electorate would repudiate a government in such circumstances. Those who haven't been following events in Canberra in recent months are entitled to be puzzled.It was always a risk for Gillard to call an election last month after barely four weeks as PM. But after signalling from the outset that she would be seeking a mandate from the people before year's end, Gillard gave herself little room to manoeuvre.This created two problems for Labor. In the first place, Labor relinquished the advantages of incumbency. Gillard fought this campaign not as the PM but as an applicant for the office. Second, there was no time for the wounds inflicted by the June putsch to heal. Damaging leaks about Gillard's opposition to an increase in pensions and to a paid parental leave scheme, which many believe were made by an embittered Rudd (or an agent of Rudd's), undermined Labor's campaign. For almost two weeks, Labor had to defend itself against the charge that a party that can't govern itself can't govern a nation.Abbott, an enfant terrible of Australian rightwing conservatism, ran a disciplined campaign. He has dispelled doubts about his capacity to be prime minister. It has been a remarkable transformation, built on a series of shrewd strategic moves. Since deposing Malcolm Turnbull as Liberal leader, Abbott successfully cast Labor's emissions trading scheme as \"a great big new tax\", triggering a fall in popular support for climate change mitigation. His hardline stance on asylum seekers and attacks on rising government debt were linchpins of a relentlessly negative campaign effort.However, Labor's cannibalism and self-destruction represent the real story of this election. The palace coup against Rudd, engineered by factional powerbrokers, reflected a party increasingly dominated by a nihilistic, all-consuming party machine. In political terms, it deprived Labor of its most potent narrative. How could Labor run on the record of Rudd's economic management when it had deposed him? This was a question Labor strategists were never able to answer convincingly.This hung parliament brings to an end three years of Labor government characterised by gulfs between rhetoric and policy delivery. Nowhere was this more clearly demonstrated than with climate change. Rudd may have famously described climate change as \"the greatest moral challenge of our time\", but when confronted with Senate opposition he chose to abandon his emissions trading scheme legislation (rather than dissolve parliament).Labor might still manage to form a minority government. If it does, it will have had a near-death experience. If it doesn't, a return to opposition would be punishment for a term of wasted opportunities and political incompetence.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Julia Gillard", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia: Labor's wasted opportunities | Tim Soutphommasane"},{"date": "2010-08-24T10:00:20Z", "country": "australia", "content": "If conservative leader Tony Abbott emerges victorious from this week's Australian electoral wrangling, he will be the island continent's sixth Catholic prime minister and the first of those to have been born in England.All five of his predecessors raised in the Catholic tradition were of Irish extraction at one generation's remove: James Scullin (from 1929 to 1932), Joe Lyons (1932-39), Frank Forde (1945), Ben Chifley (1946-49) and Paul Keating (1991-96).Anyone who has visited the laid-back hedonists' paradise that is modern Australia might be excused for doubting that this secular society could care, in the way that, say, the American electorate cares, what religious beliefs its leaders hold. It was treated almost as an aside when, soon after becoming Prime Minister in a party-room coup two months ago, Tony Abbott's rival \u2013 Julia Gillard \u2013 told a talkback radio host in Melbourne that she was an atheist.Her political instincts, however, are famously acute, which may explain why Gillard \u2013 the daughter of 1960s immigrants from South Wales who raised her as a Baptist \u2013 went on to make a virtue of her candour, saying she would not pretend to \"a faith I do not feel\".Disregarding the question whether professions of religious conviction by politicians influence Christian voters to render unto Caesar an allegiance that belongs to a higher power, her refusal to disguise unbelief in the name of expediency was shrewd in a nation where Catholics have been the largest group of believers since they surpassed Anglicans in number more than two decades ago. Census data show one-quarter of Australia's self-described believers are Catholics.Cynical realists point out that they are disproportionately numerous in the western suburbs of Sydney, one of the main battlegrounds in this year's poll.If Abbott does gain the support of enough independents to become PM he will create a first of his own. No previous incumbent of The Lodge (Australia's equivalent to No. 10) had trained as a priest: none therefore had acquired his sobriquet of the Mad Monk.At the age of 26, Abbott was accepted as a novitiate at St Patrick's Seminary in the northern Sydney beach suburb of Manly. The tabloid press would later play merry hell with allegations that as a youth Abbott resembled St Augustine before he found sanctity, fathering a son out of wedlock at the age of 19, a presumption of paternity the man himself shared until DNA tests proved otherwise just six years ago.Never ordained, Abbott decided \u2013 apparently without any crisis of faith \u2013 that his life's calling lay elsewhere. He soon turned to journalism, writing for publications ranging from The Catholic Weekly to Rupert Murdoch's flagship newspaper, The Australian.As a politician he has consistently, if unostentatiously, taken what he would call moral \u2013 and others brand as boilerplate right-wing \u2013 positions in the most contentious areas of public policy from euthanasia \u2010 absolutely opposed \u2013 and abortion \u2013 opposed in almost all circumstances \u2013 to same-sex marriage.In spite of his principles, Abbott does not go about the country with a holier-than-thou attitude. He knew better than to attack his opponent as godless. Candidates for public office Down Under do well to hide their light under a bushel.It was not always so. In a nation whose parliamentary sitting days invariably begin with the Lord's Prayer and descend into the pit from there, the pulling power of religious loyalty in generations past was undoubtedly much stronger. It was so in 1917, when the Irish-born Archbishop of Melbourne, Daniel Mannix, crusaded successfully against a referendum to conscript Australians to join the volunteers fighting alongside the Tommies in the trenches of the Western Front; and still so when he and other prelates supported, and narrowly failed to secure, a ban on the Communist Party, in the mid-century.But the single most influential role Catholics played in the nation's history transcended a single moment, defining a political epoch instead: from the mid-1950s until the early '70s the Liberal (conservative) government was kept in office by a schism within the Australian Labor Party promoted by a traditionalist Catholic and vocal critic of Vatican II, Bob Santamaria.Himself a confidant of Archbishop Mannix \u2013 who remained an intensely conservative political force right up until his death at the age of 99 \u2013 Santamaria in his own old age became a \"father figure\" to the politically ascendant ex-seminarian.Ten years after his patron's death in 1998, a waspish Abbott spooked straitlaced political observers by remarking that on some policy issues he was \"channelling\" Santamaria. He grinned while saying it but no one was really sure if he was joking.", "tags": ["Religion", "Christianity", "Catholicism", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Catholic candidate in Australia | Ken Haley"},{"date": "2010-09-13T15:12:38Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia has banned a television advert arguing for euthanasia, featuring an actor playing a man with a terminal illness asking to be allowed die with dignity.The advert was made by the lobby group Exit International to relaunch the debate in Australia on the right to die, 14 years after the Northern Territory government became the first in the world to introduce a voluntary euthanasia law, only to see it overturned by the federal authorities.The last time a similar advert was shown on Australian television was more than 10 years ago. It featured a woman suffering from what she believed was terminal bladder cancer pleading to be allowed to die. Her disease went into remission and the case became a rallying cry for the anti-euthanasia lobby.In the new advert, which has been banned by the broadcasting regulators on the grounds that it promotes suicide, which is illegal, the man argues: \"I chose to marry Tina, have two great kids. I chose to always drive a Ford. What I didn't choose was being terminally ill. I didn't choose to starve to death because eating is like swallowing razor blades.\"And I certainly didn't choose to have to watch my family go through it with me. I've made my final choice. I just need the government to listen.\"Philip Nitschke, director of Exit International, told the Age the ban violated the right to free speech, and said his group would relaunch a new version of the ad within days.The right to die has become the subject of agonised debate in many countries. In the UK, terminally ill Diane Pretty sought legal assurance that her husband would not be prosecuted for helping her to die.An increasing number of individuals are circumventing local laws by travelling to the Dignitas clinic in Switzerland, where they are given medical advice and assistance to commit suicide, which is legal under Swiss law. This month, two people were arrested for accompanying a disabled man who lived in a Tyneside care home to the Zurich clinic.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Assisted dying", "Advertising", "World news", "Society", "Media", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia bans pro-euthanasia TV advert"},{"date": "2010-08-22T23:04:02Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's election results are a puzzle. Here was a Labor government which had breasted the world financial crisis better than almost any other developed state. Here was an administration facing up to the realities of Australia's environmental situation, the constraints represented by the country's limited water supplies and agricultural land, and its vulnerability to fire, flood, drought and other hazards made worse by global warming. Here was a leadership with plans to impose more realistic taxes on the extractive industries that control the nation's most important assets. Here was a government, in other words, ready to discard the myth of \"Big Australia\", of a nation that could be pumped up to super-size by immigration and the breakneck exploitation of its mineral resources, and settle for a more modest vision of the future. And this reining-in carried with it the possibility of attending more effectively to the social inequality that had been increasing in Australia in recent years.In all this it had the broad backing of most of the electorate. So how did this translate into a performance at the polls so dismal that the Australian Labor party is either headed for opposition, or, if it stays in power, will have only a tiny majority provided by a handful of independent MPs and one Green? The answer is a cautionary tale involving the power of Australia's mining and energy industries, the loss of nerve in the face of that power by two Labor leaders in succession, and the determination of the leader of the opposition Liberal National party.Kevin Rudd was a popular prime minister who lost his popularity, and then his job, because he could not get his way on his policies, in particular an emissions trading scheme, without calling for a double dissolution of parliament and going to the country on the issue. Because he could not bring himself to take the risk, some Australians saw him as lacking in guts, while colleagues in the party saw an opportunity, or a need, to get rid of a leader supposedly becoming a liability. They brought him down, a black mark against them for many voters who saw disloyalty rather than political necessity in the change. Julia Gillard, his successor, compounded the problem by running an election campaign that lacked focus, failed to underline Labor's considerable achievements in limiting the impact of the global financial crisis on the country, and fudged the global warming issues. She also initially locked up Rudd in his own constituency, allowing him to campaign nationally only after leaks about the plotting that had led to his deposition damagingly highlighted that murky period in the minds of voters. The industrial lobbies inevitably threw their weight into the contest, while the new Liberal leader, Tony Abbott, ran a largely negative but shrewd campaign that capitalised on Labor's mistakes without offering much of a target to his opponents. Labor's initial lead shrank in the last weeks of the campaign and a partial recovery came too late to make any difference.Australian eyes are already straying across the oceans to Britain, where a coalition government seems to be managing well enough. But the parallels are limited. The handful of MPs who can make a difference in the lower house there are from very different points in the political spectrum. There would be no coherence in a Labor-led coalition or minority government with, or supported by, independents whose leaning is toward the right.But, equally, a bargain between the much-strengthened Greens and the Liberals would be very hard to strike, given their fundamental differences on environmental matters. No doubt something will be bodged up, but in the longer term Australia needs political renewal. A choice between one party that persists in throwing away its advantages and another that persists in ignoring critical issues is not much of a choice.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Julia Gillard", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia: How to lose an election | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-08-18T23:01:19Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It is a Commonwealth cliche that coups take place in benighted developing nations. On Saturday, however, the Lucky Country will choose between two leaders who deposed their predecessors. Australia's election fight, between Labor's Julia Gillard and the Liberal Tony Abbott (whose party is in semi-permanent coalition with the Nationals) is brutal, and polls suggest the slugging will go on until the final bell. But for all the blood and sweat, the scrapping feels pathetically small \u2013 the arguments turning on the format of staged encounters, and the source of the coalition's financial figures. In sum, the campaign seems more concerned with the campaign than anything else.Issues of substance do divide the centre-left and the rightwing platforms, but politicians are not minded to appeal to the better angels of Australian natures. Kevin Rudd, the prime minister whom Ms Gillard ousted and replaced in June, rapidly shredded his great popularity by describing climate change as the great moral challenge of the era \u2013 and then failing to deliver the changes he said it required. Mr Abbott is a climate sceptic, a stance which helped him displace Malcolm Turnbull last year. Ms Gillard expresses confidence in the science, but her plan of action centres on citizen consultation, which sounds like a recipe for overheated air. Water shortages and arid weather leave Australia close to the climatic frontline, and with passivity emanating from the mainstream, the Green party appears to be on the verge of something of a breakthrough.The campaign briefly promised to take a more inspiring turn this week, when the Welsh-born Ms Gillard raised the question of whether the 110-year-old Commonwealth of Australia might finally be ready to sever its deference to the British monarchy when Queen Elizabeth shuffles off the coil. Demographics, trade and geography have all run in favour of republican independence for decades. The democratic shortcomings in the existing arrangements were exposed some 35 years ago when the Queen's governor general sacked the prime minister, Gough Whitlam. Australia's monarchists are blind to much in their country's present, and are as selective in their reading of its past as America's Anglo-Saxon Protestant elite once were. Mr Abbott once said affinity to the British monarchy was as natural as respect for one's parents. Such remarks discount the perspectives of Australia's modern-day Asians, and also betray ignorance of the ethnic Germans and other non-Britons who have long been part of its story. The anti-monarchist majority is well established, but it has lacked any strategy since going down to defeat in a 1999 referendum. Disagreements within its ranks about the new republic's rules were to blame, the chief argument being about whether the president should be elected. The politicians feared a popularly chosen president might become a second head of government, so under the model on the ballot paper, parliament would choose. But the people suspected a politicians' stitch-up, and the crown lived to fight another day.In the event, the insubstantial air of this year's campaign reasserted itself, without any need for Ms Gillard to explain her strategy for uniting republicans \u2013 rather than allowing them once again to divide and fall. She talks vaguely about consultation in which the prime minister would only be one voice. With the environment that is plainly inadequate but with constitutional change a little fudge might be what is required. As with voting reform in Britain, there is much to be said for concentrating first on winning agreement for change, and moving on to the potentially divisive discussion about precisely what happens next only once that is won. Ms Gillard is plainly shrewd, too, to decouple the monarchy from the person of a popular Queen. From a dismal election campaign in a country far, far away, British republicans might just garner valuable food for thought.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Monarchy", "UK news", "Julia Gillard", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia and the monarchy: Home and away | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-09-08T05:59:58Z", "country": "australia", "content": "'So let's draw back the curtains and let the sunshine in,\" said Julia Gillard on hearing of her narrow victory in Australia's general election. \"Let our parliament be more open than it was before.\"Australia's first female prime minister scraped back into power with words which might make one imagine that she was a woman, like many others before her, who was determined to change the parliamentary system: to make it more transparent, honest and accountable; to enter a chamber that a former leader of the Democrats called \"awash with testosterone\", and bring in a stern, but comforting female presence.This is, after all, something women have promised \u2013 or threatened \u2013 to do for well over a century, from the suffragettes onwards. The irony is that this is something Gillard did not promise: she did not campaign on the grounds of her gender, and she did not claim to do politics any differently.But, strangely enough, a different kind of politics was what voters wanted after all. Now she has been forced into promising greater accountability after an excruciatingly close election, and 17 days of pleading, begging and deal-making before three independents decided who they would support, leaving Gillard's Labor party with 76 seats, the Coalition 74.Before becoming party leader, Gillard, a former lawyer with a record of fighting for the rights of workers and women, was seen as a true political operative \u2013 a party player and a knife-sharp debater. She is, primarily, a pragmatist who played the political game to perfection before grasping the top job. She was straight with the media, did not pander to any of the stereotypes Australia's political women have been trapped by before \u2013 of saints, seductresses, wide-eyed housewives who stumbled into parliament, or \"steel Sheilas\" who wanted to be like Margaret Thatcher.She also batted down personal criticism with humour. Gillard told biographer Jacqueline Kent, when she was once standing next to a board with a large photo of her: \"This old guy comes out of the supermarket, looks at me, looks at the photo, then turns back at me and says, 'Taken on a good day wasn't it, love?' I said, 'And you'd be bloody Robert Redford, would you mate?'\"Initially, the public warmed to someone who seemed authentic and real. During the election, the fact that Gillard was a woman was irrelevant and only ever a vague distraction when the snipes about the fact that she had not married her boyfriend, had no children and did not cook emerged.But overall she ran a poor election, and\u00a0lost much ground to the more disciplined leader of the Liberal party, Tony Abbott. Her uninspiring rhetoric, gaffes, and a foolish remark about allowing the \"real Julia\" to emerge halfway through the campaign (who were we seeing before?) played into often sexist smears that she was a puppet of the hard-right men of her party.The greatest problem of this election, and the reason it was so close, is that voters stopped caring; many leaving ballot papers blank. It was, in essence, the failure of small target politics, where both parties were scrambling for the middle ground and focused on attacking the other side.The time for smallness in Australian politics has surely gone. The Labor party needs to articulate a compelling worldview, to appeal not to the fearful demons but the \"better angels of our nature\", as Lincoln said. To quell racism in immigration debates, not stir it up. Unlike the US and Britain, the economy has not been the predominant concern for voters \u2013 the country almost coasted through the financial crisis \u2013 but Australians are looking for a leader who might capture their imagination.This is Gillard's challenge. She needs to show leadership on climate change and allow the conscience vote on gay marriage that the newly muscular Greens, who now hold the balance of power in the senate, would like. Australia needs a more clearly articulated foreign policy and to acknowledge its enormous dependence on exporting to\u00a0China.Gillard should also make the prime minister she deposed, Kevin Rudd, the minister for foreign affairs \u2013 given his aptitude and knowledge of the subject, his popularity, and the lingering resentment at how cynically he was toppled.Gillard has to show her substance, and demonstrate, even with such a slight majority, that her party is about more than the pursuit of power. It should not matter that she is a woman. But it does matter that voters are sick of the old boys' way of doing politics. She must show she is capable of responding to the electorate's desire for politics to be done with the transparency and openness she has promised. Perhaps she also needs to show, as Thatcher said: \"It may be the cock that crows, but it is the hen that lays the eggs.\"", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Politics", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Now advance, Australia | Julia Baird"},{"date": "2010-08-22T11:35:22Z", "country": "australia", "content": "There are few certainties left in Australian politics. Two months ago, the Labor party moved to terminate its leader, Kevin Rudd \u2013 the first time a prime minister had been toppled by his own party before facing re-election. On Saturday, it was the turn of voters to overturn one of the general laws of electoral behaviour. It has been a long time since it last happened \u2013 namely, with the Scullin Labor government in 1931 \u2013 but a government has failed to secure a second term in its own right.The result is disastrous for Labor. To be sure, a hung parliament means that Prime Minister Julia Gillard may yet form a minority government with the support of independent and Green MPs. But it is just as plausible that Liberal-conservative leader Tony Abbott may broker a minority government of his own. It may take several days, even a week, before either transpires. All this is unfamiliar territory, governed by nebulous convention. Australia hasn't had a minority government since 1940.Labor should never have faced this prospect. Under Rudd's leadership, a Labor government had steered the Australian economy through the global financial crisis. Australia was the only OECD economy that didn't experience a recession; unemployment peaked at 5%. It is remarkable that an Australian electorate would repudiate a government in such circumstances. Those who haven't been following events in Canberra in recent months are entitled to be puzzled.It was always a risk for Gillard to call an election last month after barely four weeks as PM. But after signalling from the outset that she would be seeking a mandate from the people before year's end, Gillard gave herself little room to manoeuvre.This created two problems for Labor. In the first place, Labor relinquished the advantages of incumbency. Gillard fought this campaign not as the PM but as an applicant for the office. Second, there was no time for the wounds inflicted by the June putsch to heal. Damaging leaks about Gillard's opposition to an increase in pensions and to a paid parental leave scheme, which many believe were made by an embittered Rudd (or an agent of Rudd's), undermined Labor's campaign. For almost two weeks, Labor had to defend itself against the charge that a party that can't govern itself can't govern a nation.Abbott, an enfant terrible of Australian rightwing conservatism, ran a disciplined campaign. He has dispelled doubts about his capacity to be prime minister. It has been a remarkable transformation, built on a series of shrewd strategic moves. Since deposing Malcolm Turnbull as Liberal leader, Abbott successfully cast Labor's emissions trading scheme as \"a great big new tax\", triggering a fall in popular support for climate change mitigation. His hardline stance on asylum seekers and attacks on rising government debt were linchpins of a relentlessly negative campaign effort.However, Labor's cannibalism and self-destruction represent the real story of this election. The palace coup against Rudd, engineered by factional powerbrokers, reflected a party increasingly dominated by a nihilistic, all-consuming party machine. In political terms, it deprived Labor of its most potent narrative. How could Labor run on the record of Rudd's economic management when it had deposed him? This was a question Labor strategists were never able to answer convincingly.This hung parliament brings to an end three years of Labor government characterised by gulfs between rhetoric and policy delivery. Nowhere was this more clearly demonstrated than with climate change. Rudd may have famously described climate change as \"the greatest moral challenge of our time\", but when confronted with Senate opposition he chose to abandon his emissions trading scheme legislation (rather than dissolve parliament).Labor might still manage to form a minority government. If it does, it will have had a near-death experience. If it doesn't, a return to opposition would be punishment for a term of wasted opportunities and political incompetence.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Julia Gillard", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia: Labor's wasted opportunities | Tim Soutphommasane"},{"date": "2010-08-24T10:00:20Z", "country": "australia", "content": "If conservative leader Tony Abbott emerges victorious from this week's Australian electoral wrangling, he will be the island continent's sixth Catholic prime minister and the first of those to have been born in England.All five of his predecessors raised in the Catholic tradition were of Irish extraction at one generation's remove: James Scullin (from 1929 to 1932), Joe Lyons (1932-39), Frank Forde (1945), Ben Chifley (1946-49) and Paul Keating (1991-96).Anyone who has visited the laid-back hedonists' paradise that is modern Australia might be excused for doubting that this secular society could care, in the way that, say, the American electorate cares, what religious beliefs its leaders hold. It was treated almost as an aside when, soon after becoming Prime Minister in a party-room coup two months ago, Tony Abbott's rival \u2013 Julia Gillard \u2013 told a talkback radio host in Melbourne that she was an atheist.Her political instincts, however, are famously acute, which may explain why Gillard \u2013 the daughter of 1960s immigrants from South Wales who raised her as a Baptist \u2013 went on to make a virtue of her candour, saying she would not pretend to \"a faith I do not feel\".Disregarding the question whether professions of religious conviction by politicians influence Christian voters to render unto Caesar an allegiance that belongs to a higher power, her refusal to disguise unbelief in the name of expediency was shrewd in a nation where Catholics have been the largest group of believers since they surpassed Anglicans in number more than two decades ago. Census data show one-quarter of Australia's self-described believers are Catholics.Cynical realists point out that they are disproportionately numerous in the western suburbs of Sydney, one of the main battlegrounds in this year's poll.If Abbott does gain the support of enough independents to become PM he will create a first of his own. No previous incumbent of The Lodge (Australia's equivalent to No. 10) had trained as a priest: none therefore had acquired his sobriquet of the Mad Monk.At the age of 26, Abbott was accepted as a novitiate at St Patrick's Seminary in the northern Sydney beach suburb of Manly. The tabloid press would later play merry hell with allegations that as a youth Abbott resembled St Augustine before he found sanctity, fathering a son out of wedlock at the age of 19, a presumption of paternity the man himself shared until DNA tests proved otherwise just six years ago.Never ordained, Abbott decided \u2013 apparently without any crisis of faith \u2013 that his life's calling lay elsewhere. He soon turned to journalism, writing for publications ranging from The Catholic Weekly to Rupert Murdoch's flagship newspaper, The Australian.As a politician he has consistently, if unostentatiously, taken what he would call moral \u2013 and others brand as boilerplate right-wing \u2013 positions in the most contentious areas of public policy from euthanasia \u2010 absolutely opposed \u2013 and abortion \u2013 opposed in almost all circumstances \u2013 to same-sex marriage.In spite of his principles, Abbott does not go about the country with a holier-than-thou attitude. He knew better than to attack his opponent as godless. Candidates for public office Down Under do well to hide their light under a bushel.It was not always so. In a nation whose parliamentary sitting days invariably begin with the Lord's Prayer and descend into the pit from there, the pulling power of religious loyalty in generations past was undoubtedly much stronger. It was so in 1917, when the Irish-born Archbishop of Melbourne, Daniel Mannix, crusaded successfully against a referendum to conscript Australians to join the volunteers fighting alongside the Tommies in the trenches of the Western Front; and still so when he and other prelates supported, and narrowly failed to secure, a ban on the Communist Party, in the mid-century.But the single most influential role Catholics played in the nation's history transcended a single moment, defining a political epoch instead: from the mid-1950s until the early '70s the Liberal (conservative) government was kept in office by a schism within the Australian Labor Party promoted by a traditionalist Catholic and vocal critic of Vatican II, Bob Santamaria.Himself a confidant of Archbishop Mannix \u2013 who remained an intensely conservative political force right up until his death at the age of 99 \u2013 Santamaria in his own old age became a \"father figure\" to the politically ascendant ex-seminarian.Ten years after his patron's death in 1998, a waspish Abbott spooked straitlaced political observers by remarking that on some policy issues he was \"channelling\" Santamaria. He grinned while saying it but no one was really sure if he was joking.", "tags": ["Religion", "Christianity", "Catholicism", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The Catholic candidate in Australia | Ken Haley"},{"date": "2010-09-13T15:12:38Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia has banned a television advert arguing for euthanasia, featuring an actor playing a man with a terminal illness asking to be allowed die with dignity.The advert was made by the lobby group Exit International to relaunch the debate in Australia on the right to die, 14 years after the Northern Territory government became the first in the world to introduce a voluntary euthanasia law, only to see it overturned by the federal authorities.The last time a similar advert was shown on Australian television was more than 10 years ago. It featured a woman suffering from what she believed was terminal bladder cancer pleading to be allowed to die. Her disease went into remission and the case became a rallying cry for the anti-euthanasia lobby.In the new advert, which has been banned by the broadcasting regulators on the grounds that it promotes suicide, which is illegal, the man argues: \"I chose to marry Tina, have two great kids. I chose to always drive a Ford. What I didn't choose was being terminally ill. I didn't choose to starve to death because eating is like swallowing razor blades.\"And I certainly didn't choose to have to watch my family go through it with me. I've made my final choice. I just need the government to listen.\"Philip Nitschke, director of Exit International, told the Age the ban violated the right to free speech, and said his group would relaunch a new version of the ad within days.The right to die has become the subject of agonised debate in many countries. In the UK, terminally ill Diane Pretty sought legal assurance that her husband would not be prosecuted for helping her to die.An increasing number of individuals are circumventing local laws by travelling to the Dignitas clinic in Switzerland, where they are given medical advice and assistance to commit suicide, which is legal under Swiss law. This month, two people were arrested for accompanying a disabled man who lived in a Tyneside care home to the Zurich clinic.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Assisted dying", "Advertising", "World news", "Society", "Media", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia bans pro-euthanasia TV advert"},{"date": "2010-08-22T23:04:02Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's election results are a puzzle. Here was a Labor government which had breasted the world financial crisis better than almost any other developed state. Here was an administration facing up to the realities of Australia's environmental situation, the constraints represented by the country's limited water supplies and agricultural land, and its vulnerability to fire, flood, drought and other hazards made worse by global warming. Here was a leadership with plans to impose more realistic taxes on the extractive industries that control the nation's most important assets. Here was a government, in other words, ready to discard the myth of \"Big Australia\", of a nation that could be pumped up to super-size by immigration and the breakneck exploitation of its mineral resources, and settle for a more modest vision of the future. And this reining-in carried with it the possibility of attending more effectively to the social inequality that had been increasing in Australia in recent years.In all this it had the broad backing of most of the electorate. So how did this translate into a performance at the polls so dismal that the Australian Labor party is either headed for opposition, or, if it stays in power, will have only a tiny majority provided by a handful of independent MPs and one Green? The answer is a cautionary tale involving the power of Australia's mining and energy industries, the loss of nerve in the face of that power by two Labor leaders in succession, and the determination of the leader of the opposition Liberal National party.Kevin Rudd was a popular prime minister who lost his popularity, and then his job, because he could not get his way on his policies, in particular an emissions trading scheme, without calling for a double dissolution of parliament and going to the country on the issue. Because he could not bring himself to take the risk, some Australians saw him as lacking in guts, while colleagues in the party saw an opportunity, or a need, to get rid of a leader supposedly becoming a liability. They brought him down, a black mark against them for many voters who saw disloyalty rather than political necessity in the change. Julia Gillard, his successor, compounded the problem by running an election campaign that lacked focus, failed to underline Labor's considerable achievements in limiting the impact of the global financial crisis on the country, and fudged the global warming issues. She also initially locked up Rudd in his own constituency, allowing him to campaign nationally only after leaks about the plotting that had led to his deposition damagingly highlighted that murky period in the minds of voters. The industrial lobbies inevitably threw their weight into the contest, while the new Liberal leader, Tony Abbott, ran a largely negative but shrewd campaign that capitalised on Labor's mistakes without offering much of a target to his opponents. Labor's initial lead shrank in the last weeks of the campaign and a partial recovery came too late to make any difference.Australian eyes are already straying across the oceans to Britain, where a coalition government seems to be managing well enough. But the parallels are limited. The handful of MPs who can make a difference in the lower house there are from very different points in the political spectrum. There would be no coherence in a Labor-led coalition or minority government with, or supported by, independents whose leaning is toward the right.But, equally, a bargain between the much-strengthened Greens and the Liberals would be very hard to strike, given their fundamental differences on environmental matters. No doubt something will be bodged up, but in the longer term Australia needs political renewal. A choice between one party that persists in throwing away its advantages and another that persists in ignoring critical issues is not much of a choice.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Julia Gillard", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia: How to lose an election | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-08-18T23:01:19Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It is a Commonwealth cliche that coups take place in benighted developing nations. On Saturday, however, the Lucky Country will choose between two leaders who deposed their predecessors. Australia's election fight, between Labor's Julia Gillard and the Liberal Tony Abbott (whose party is in semi-permanent coalition with the Nationals) is brutal, and polls suggest the slugging will go on until the final bell. But for all the blood and sweat, the scrapping feels pathetically small \u2013 the arguments turning on the format of staged encounters, and the source of the coalition's financial figures. In sum, the campaign seems more concerned with the campaign than anything else.Issues of substance do divide the centre-left and the rightwing platforms, but politicians are not minded to appeal to the better angels of Australian natures. Kevin Rudd, the prime minister whom Ms Gillard ousted and replaced in June, rapidly shredded his great popularity by describing climate change as the great moral challenge of the era \u2013 and then failing to deliver the changes he said it required. Mr Abbott is a climate sceptic, a stance which helped him displace Malcolm Turnbull last year. Ms Gillard expresses confidence in the science, but her plan of action centres on citizen consultation, which sounds like a recipe for overheated air. Water shortages and arid weather leave Australia close to the climatic frontline, and with passivity emanating from the mainstream, the Green party appears to be on the verge of something of a breakthrough.The campaign briefly promised to take a more inspiring turn this week, when the Welsh-born Ms Gillard raised the question of whether the 110-year-old Commonwealth of Australia might finally be ready to sever its deference to the British monarchy when Queen Elizabeth shuffles off the coil. Demographics, trade and geography have all run in favour of republican independence for decades. The democratic shortcomings in the existing arrangements were exposed some 35 years ago when the Queen's governor general sacked the prime minister, Gough Whitlam. Australia's monarchists are blind to much in their country's present, and are as selective in their reading of its past as America's Anglo-Saxon Protestant elite once were. Mr Abbott once said affinity to the British monarchy was as natural as respect for one's parents. Such remarks discount the perspectives of Australia's modern-day Asians, and also betray ignorance of the ethnic Germans and other non-Britons who have long been part of its story. The anti-monarchist majority is well established, but it has lacked any strategy since going down to defeat in a 1999 referendum. Disagreements within its ranks about the new republic's rules were to blame, the chief argument being about whether the president should be elected. The politicians feared a popularly chosen president might become a second head of government, so under the model on the ballot paper, parliament would choose. But the people suspected a politicians' stitch-up, and the crown lived to fight another day.In the event, the insubstantial air of this year's campaign reasserted itself, without any need for Ms Gillard to explain her strategy for uniting republicans \u2013 rather than allowing them once again to divide and fall. She talks vaguely about consultation in which the prime minister would only be one voice. With the environment that is plainly inadequate but with constitutional change a little fudge might be what is required. As with voting reform in Britain, there is much to be said for concentrating first on winning agreement for change, and moving on to the potentially divisive discussion about precisely what happens next only once that is won. Ms Gillard is plainly shrewd, too, to decouple the monarchy from the person of a popular Queen. From a dismal election campaign in a country far, far away, British republicans might just garner valuable food for thought.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Monarchy", "UK news", "Julia Gillard", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia and the monarchy: Home and away | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-08-21T14:36:58Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Tuesday 24 August 2010 In the article below we incorrectly stated that the Australian Green party was either about to have, or as it transpired on Saturday, had indeed achieved, its first elected MP. Adam Bandt was the first Green candidate to win a seat in the lower house of the Australian parliament at a general election; the first ever Green party MP was elected in a byelection in 2002. Early results from Australia's federal election suggest the country faces the prospect of a hung parliament for the first time in 70 years.With more than half the votes counted, Australia's first woman prime minister, Julia Gillard, is set to lose at least 16 seats and gain only two, leaving her well short of the 76 seats required for an overall majority, according to public broadcaster ABC.Gillard told supporters at her Labor party headquarters in Melbourne: \"Obviously, this is too close to call. There are many seats where the result is undecided and where it will take a number of days of counting to determine the result.\"A record number of votes cast for independents and the Green party makes the prospect of a coalition government likely. The Greens look on course to hold the balance of power in the country's powerful upper house, the senate, for the first time in their history, and they may also win their first seat in the lower house.The closeness of the contest is a huge turnaround in fortunes for the incumbent Labor party, whose previous leader and prime minister, Kevin Rudd, had a 70% approval rating. His decision in April to shelve the centrepiece of his climate change policy, the emissions trading scheme, dealt his popularity a heavy blow, and a fight with the country's big mining companies over tax finished him off.With an election due in months, the party needed a new direction and a scapegoat. Gillard appeared to be the perfect solution. When she took over on 24 June she was embraced as Australia's first female prime minister while Rudd took the blame for the party's woes.But the respite did not last long. Gillard's campaign has been dogged by leaks against her, party infighting and the presence of Rudd himself, and now she is fighting for her political life. No first-term government has been thrown out in Australia for 80 years.Gillard's rival Tony Abbott became leader of the conservative Liberal opposition nine months ago, defeating his predecessor by one vote. At that time, the party was deep in the political wilderness. It was reminiscent of the Tories under William Hague and Iain Duncan Smith, suddenly dishevelled in opposition after a long period in power.Abbott has long been seen as a gaffe-prone fitness enthusiast who is lampooned in the media for wearing tight swimming trunks. More recently, however, he has managed to portray himself as a viable prime minister.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Julia Gillard", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Tony Abbott", "Australian politics", "Liberal party"], "title": "Australia election results point to hung parliament"},{"date": "2010-11-27T00:06:07Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Art fans curious about Chinese contemporary art should go to White Rabbit Gallery in Chippendale (whiterabbitcollection.org), a four-storey private collection that's free to visit. The Art Gallery NSW (artgallery.nsw.gov.au) now also has a superb Asian wing, with a new permanent indigenous collection.The Sydney Theatre Company (sydneytheatre.com.au) has gone from strength to strength under artistic directors Cate Blanchett and Andrew Upton. The theatre precinct in Walsh Bay now has great bars and restaurants, so you can dine well before a show and enjoy harbour views while you do so.Darling Harbour is always evolving and Surry Hills/Darlinghurst is now bar and restaurant central. Kings Cross has been gentrified, although it still has its sleazy side (the old neon strip club signs are heritage-protected!). Bennelong Point, ugly until a decade ago, has an Italian-style colonnade in the walk up to the Opera House. A drink at Opera Bar (operabar.com.au) opposite the Harbour Bridge as the sun sets is an essential experience.Nick Dent, editor of Time Out Sydney (timeoutsydney.com.au), which is now a magazine, website and iPhone app For three weeks each January, the Sydney Festival (sydneyfestival.org.au, 8-30 January) has a programme of 500-plus artists from Australia and elsewhere, and three years ago introduced a new opening event, Festival First Night, when 300,000 people take to city streets transformed into free stages and precincts.The Finders Keepers (thefinders keepers.com) holds a twice-yearly indie craft event in Sydney and Brisbane, featuring emerging designers and their cool and affordable wares, plus live music, cafe and bar.If you're into fresh produce and meeting growers and producers, Eveleigh Farmer's Market (eveleighmarket.com.au) will appeal. The heritage-listed market is home to more than 80 farmers and artisan food producers every Saturday morning.Sydneysiders love their caffeine, and Campos Specialty Coffee (camposcoffee.com) has just opened its first Cupping Room \u2013 offering a complete theatrical, sensory experience of the humble coffee bean \u2013 in Newtown.Adriano Zumbo (adrianozumbo.com), a contemporary French-inspired patisserie in Balmain, showcases some of the most desirable, inventive cakes this side of the equator (think beetroot and raspberry macaroons).Carrie Choo, founder of Daily Addict (dailyaddict.com.au), a lifestyle guide to Sydney and Melbourne Guardian tip Budget travellers can stay in the new Sydney Harbour youth hostel (yha.com.au), with views of the Opera House and the bridge, from \u00a324 a night in a six-bed dormTony Wheeler of Lonely Planet fame is one of many sponsors of The Wheeler Centre (wheelercentre.com), a new cultural hub on Little Lonsdale Street encouraging all things literary, including Lunchbox/Soapbox, an old-fashioned Speakers' Corner. Bring your lunch and listen to writers sounding off.The Australian Centre for the Moving Image (acmi.net.au) in Federation Square is worth a visit for its alternative cinema options. Or there's Underground Cinema (undergroundcinema.com.au), monthly cinema experiences that take place in changing secret locations depending on the mystery film shown.Shop on Gertrude Street for all things quirky and unique. My hit list includes fashion boutique Left (leftmelbourne.blogspot.com), Amor y Locura (amorylocura.com) for antiques and pre-loved treasures, Industria X (industriax.com.au) for ex-industrial furniture and vintage wares, Aesop for beautiful plant-based skincare, Spacecraft (spacecraftaustralia.com) for its vibrant printed homewares and Books for Cooks.Der Raum (derraum.com.au) has an array of food and drink awards and serves daily hand-pressed juices, old-world elixirs, super-premium spirits and sports one very fine cocktail ice machine (they boast it's the finest in the world). It's a must-visit establishment for cocktail novices and connoisseurs both. Cumulus Inc (cumulusinc.com.au) is a foodie favourite for breakfast, but it is humming at any time of day, churning out Andrew McConnell's well-thought-out informal dishes, ideal for sharing.Carrie Choo (as before)Guardian tip Art Aficionado (artaficionadotours.com) is a new walking tour operation. The three-hour Inside The Labyrinth tour visits six contemporary art galleries in the city, plus sites of cultural interest. Tours cost \u00a337pp and start at 2pm on Fridays Perth's bar scene has taken off in the past year or so. You'll find plenty of desirable bars in the city centre and Northbridge. Of the central offerings, Helvetica (helveticabar.com), specialising in whiskey, and Andaluz (andaluzbar.com.au), offering modern tapas and a killer wine list, are personal favourites. The crowds are mixed, the settings are in that exposed brick/Chesterfield-lounge-stolen-from-rich-grandma's-house style.The suburb of Northbridge boasts Ezra Pound (189 William St), a hidden speakeasy-style joint where cocktails are served in old jam jars. On the same street is The Bird (williamstreetbird.com), which has live gigs and fun nights (hip-hop karaoke, anyone?), and 399 (399bar.com), which isn't as vocal in terms of hipster-chic but has some of the best bartenders and spirits in the state. It's worth noting that these small bars are legally allowed a maximum of 120 people, so try to make it there before 8.30pm or you'll be in for a wait. If waiting and small spaces aren't your speed, visit Little Creatures (littlecreatures.com.au), a Fremantle-born brewery and pub right on the harbour which is a must-visit for beer (or Perth) lovers.Rachael Ciccarelli (twitter.com/rachthething), freelance journalist with the West Australian newspaperIf you're in Perth, you must have dinner at dusk at the Indiana (indiana.com.au) on Cottesloe beach. The balcony and dining room are the perfect spots to sample fresh Western Australia produce while watching the surf and an amazing sunset. A few metres down the road is the OBH (Ocean Beach Hotel if you're new in town, obh.com.au). It also overlooks the sea and has a restaurant but most come here for a liquid lunch, particularly on a Sunday. Sunday sessions are a Perth tradition, something to do with sunny afternoons, closed shops and any number of top breweries in the city. Shane Osborn, head chef and co-owner of London's Pied \u00e0 Terre (pied-a-terre.co.uk)Guardian tip When you fly to Perth (and Brisbane, Melbourne or Sydney) with Emirates, the Visit Australia Pass gives you discounted rates on internal flights. See emirates.com for detailsBrisbane is without doubt the new kid on the cultural block. The South Bank is the cultural precinct and has recently undergone a dramatic makeover including a new Gallery of Modern Art (qag.qld.gov.au), a refurbished Queensland Performing Arts Centre (qpac.com.au), and the redevelopment of the State Library (slq.qld.gov.au) by Donovan Hill. The precinct is linked to the city centre by Cox Rayner's spidery Kurilpa Bridge, which opened last year and has already become a city landmark.To the east of the city centre is New Farm, with its vibrant restaurant scene, and the Brisbane Powerhouse (brisbanepowerhouse.org), converted from a 1920s turbine hall into alternative performance spaces.If you have more time, take a day trip to Stradbroke Island, a design mecca and home to a plethora of dwellings designed by some of Queensland's hottest architects.Michael Rayner, architect, Cox Rayner (coxarchitecture.com.au)Guardian tip Tourism Australia's free Go Ashes iPhone app (go to australia.com/ashes to download) features in-depth city guides to all the Ashes cities, plus all the latest cricket news, of course The Reading Room (thereadingroom-renewadelaide.blogspot.com) is a good starting point for Adelaide culture: it's a library-cum-lounge with gallery and cinema. Magazine Gallery on Clubhouse Lane is a cool little artspace that's only been open for a few months.Format (format.net.au) is a multi-purpose creative hub in Adelaide, runing exhibitions and gigs, plus arts and community events. A two-week festival in February/March, includes visual art, literature workshops and urban art. You might also want to look at the Five Thousand website (fivethousand.com.au), a sort of What's On in Adelaide for local hipsters.Ianto Ware, creative director, FormatMy favourite restaurants include Mesa Lunga (mesalunga.com) for tapas, the Oyster Bar at Glenelg (oysterbar.com.au) and the Lion Hotel (thelionhotel.com). Waymouth Street is the place for drinks \u2013 try Gallery (galleryonwaymouth.com.au) or Georges (georgesonwaymouth.com.au). Brooke Liebelt, marketing executive and Adelaide localGuardian tip Qantas Holidays (020-8222 9124, qantasholidays.co.uk) is offering two free nights on a five-night stay at Adelaide's Rockford Hotel, from \u00a3232pp for the whole stay. From Adelaide, a one-day trip to Kangaroo Island with Kangaroo Island Wilderness Tours (wildernesstours.com.au), including 4WD touring and lunch, costs \u00a3243ppMy favourite wine destination in Australia is the Giant Steps winery (giant-steps.com.au) in the Yarra Valley. In many ways it encapsulates the new Australia. First, it's not in some bucolic vineyard setting but on the (slightly less than bustling) main drag of Healesville in the heart of the Yarra. It is modern, strong, confident and bloody brilliant. There's a wood fire for real pizza, an in-house baker, a cheese room, a football table, unusually cool people behind the bar (wine regions don't normally do cool), and all-pervasive spirit and passion.And then there is the wine. Almost exclusively single-vineyard, brilliantly made, focused and stylish, chardonnays and pinot noirs really \u2013 and I mean really \u2013 make a statement here. It's the brainchild of a bloke called Phil Sexton. He flies small planes, builds great businesses, makes great wines, has beautiful children and stays fit in his 50s. I hate him. And his winery.Stuart Gregor, retired wine author who now runs PR company Liquid Ideas (liquidideas.com.au) and has a small winery in the Yarra ValleyHamilton Island (hamiltonisland.com.au), the largest inhabited island of the Whitsunday off Queensland, offers a number of unique experiences. Glenn Bourke, the island's chief executive, recommends a stay on Australia's only permanent-structure marine accommodation.Fantasea Adventure Cruising, an eco-certified operator, offers a Reefsleep Experience package with nights either side on Hamilton Island (fantasea.com.au, from \u00a3285pp). \"Spending the night on a floating pontoon, 40 miles offshore on the Great Barrier Reef with only tropical marine life for company, is both magical and unforgettable,\" he says.Chef Jane-Therese Mulry (of the Qualia luxury resort) sings the praises of the local food scene: \"Hamilton Island's Great Barrier Feast series (hamiltonisland.com.au/feast) is a celebration of Australia's culinary soul. After being Marco Pierre White's first female head chef in London, I developed a passion for using only the freshest ingredients \u2013 and it doesn't get better than North Queensland produce.\"The arts scene is on the up too, says David McAllister, artistic director of the Australian Ballet. \"The Australian Ballet's third annual performance on Hamilton Island in July 2011 (hamiltonisland.com.au/australian-ballet) has become an important event on the calendar for us. It provides patrons with exclusive behind-the-scenes access to the Australian Ballet in one of Australia's most beautiful locations, culminating in a magical sunset performance with the Whitsundays as a backdrop.\"Tarkine Forest Adventures (adventure forests.com.au/tarkine) is found at Dismal Swamp near Togari in north-west Tasmania. Dismal Swamp is a natural blackwood forest sinkhole, believed to be the only remaining one of its kind in the world. The floor of the sinkhole is 40m deep, and can be reached by a walking track \u2013 or much more quickly by taking the 110m slide from the viewing platform. Two trips down the slide are included in the admission price (\u00a312 per adult).In December 2007, cruise operator Robert Pennicott expanded operations in southern Tasmania with the launch of Tasman Island Cruises (tasmancruises.com.au). The coastline here is spectacular, and there is a great variety of marine wildlife and seabirds to be seen, from seals, whales, sharks and dolphins to albatrosses, eagles and falcons. Full-day tours include an eco-cruise and an optional visit to the Port Arthur historic convict site, the Tasmanian Devil Conservation Park or the Federation Chocolate factory and museum (from \u00a3100pp; cheaper three-hour tours are also available).Donna and Tony Gibbons, local experts on Tasmania for MyDestinationInfo.com (mydestinationinfo.com)Guardian tip There's a buzz about the opening of Mona (Museum of Old and New Art, mona.net.au) near Hobart in January. Stay in one of the Mona pavilions, featuring artwork from the collection, for \u00a3306 a night including breakfast, through Bridge & Wickers (bridgeandwickers.co.uk)Ningaloo Reef is the largest fringing coral reef in the country. Temperate and tropical currents meet in Ningaloo, resulting in highly diverse marine life, including spectacular coral reefs and abundant fish, turtles, whale sharks, dugongs, whales and dolphins. The reef is home to more than 500 species of fish, 600 species of mollusc and 200 species of coral alone. It also has diverse marine communities, including mangroves, algae and filter-feeding. The close proximity of the reef to the shore (it is the only large reef located very close to a land mass) means visitors can enjoy a wide variety of activities without the need for lengthy boat trips.Seasonal aggregations of whale sharks, manta rays, sea turtles and whales, as well as the annual mass coral spawning, provide unique opportunities for visitors to observe marine fauna and key biological processes. Some of the best places to snorkel are at tourist hot spots such as Turquoise Bay, Oyster Stacks and Coral Bay, but there are other places (many better than those just listed) \u2013 they simply require the visitor to do some exploring. Alternatively, jump on a licensed charter boat for a trip out to some incredible places that only local operators know about.One thing visitors to the area always comment on is that nowhere else in Australia do they see such an abundant display of \"iconic\" Australian land animals, such as emus, kangaroos, wallabies and echidnas, together in one place. In the town of Exmouth, emus wander the streets \u2013 a sight that is quite amazing even for locals who have been living here for years.\u2022 Responsible Travel (responsibletravel.com) has a nine-day Ningaloo Reef sailing holiday on a luxury catamaran from \u00a32,531, excluding flightsRay De Jong, ranger, Cape Range national parkSwimming with lightning-fast bluefin tuna near the coastal town of Port Lincoln on the Eyre peninsula in South Australia is an unforgettable experience. Other exceptional aquatic experiences include snorkelling with sea lions, whale watching, diving with cuttlefish and cage shark diving. The Eyre peninsula is known as \"nature's playground\" \u2013 getting up close and personal with wildlife is the norm.Matt Waller, a fourth-generation fisherman and skipper at Adventure Bay Charters (adventurebaycharters.com.au)British tourists tend to focus on Australia's coastal cities, but there are some magnificent towns inland. Kyneton in Victoria is a particularly beautiful town that's only two hours' drive from Melbourne. It has a lazy, old world charm: original settlers' houses, a hotel straight out of the wild west, the courthouse where they tried Ned Kelly.My favourite national park is Mungo in New South Wales, which is home to the oldest human remains outside of East Africa. The landscape is staggering, changing suddenly from rolling green land to sand dunes to rock. In the middle of Australia, Cameron's Corner is quite a sight. It's where the states of Queensland, South Australia and New South Wales meet and the Dingo Fence \u2013 the longest fence in the world \u2013 passes through. I've cycled around there with four or five dingos running alongside me.Cairns, in Queensland, is a great party city, with fantastic bars and restaurants and good diving. But go inland and you'll pass through rainforest and come to Atherton. It's a town surrounded by bright green farmland, where an amazing array of fruit and vegetables is grown, including pineapples and guava. You'll also find local cheese and chocolate, so it's a good place to relax at the end of an active holiday.\u2022 Sign up to cycle in a group from Melbourne to Cairns in May next year (Route A is 3,200km, Route B is 2,094km) at transozbikeride.com.Mike Laird, explorer who cycled solo across the outback this year.   Guardian tip If cycling across Australia sounds too much like hard work, Austravel (0800 988 4834, austravel.com) has a new itinerary, Down the Middle: Darwin to Adelaide, allowing you to cross the country in more comfort. Marking the 150th anniversary of John Mcdouall Stuart's crossing, the trip includes flights, seven nights hotel accommodation (in Darwin, Alice Springs and Adelaide), a camping safari and train travel on the Ghan. The 12-night trip costs \u00a32,889pp, departing on selected dates in May 2011The Silky Oaks Lodge (+61 7 4098 1666, silkyoakslodge.com.au) in the Daintree, in tropical north Queensland, is a polished eco-lodge in one of the world's oldest rainforests. This year it launched a zero carbon offset plan. The rooms (from \u00a3200 per night) come with a private hammock and garden, oversized spa tubs and river views. The restaurant is built on hardwood stilts to see canopy life, and offers a reef and rainforest menu. The spa incorporates organic Australian treatments. Guides share aromatic jungle fruits while demonstrating forest diversity, including the cassowary, a large blue-headed relative of an emu.Hannah Robinson, author of Australia: An Ecotraveller's GuideToday there are some wonderful Aboriginal art galleries to visit in and around Perth, such as the Aboriginal Art Gallery in Kings Park (aboriginalgallery.com.au), Creative Native in the city (creativenative.com.au), Maalinup Aboriginal Art Gallery in the Swan Valley (maalinup.com.au) and True Blue Gallery in Fremantle (truebluegallery.com). Western Australia is also home to some of the most talented indigenous dance groups in the country.These day, many tour operators are trying to educate visitors about the oldest living culture on the planet while developing indigenous employment opportunities. Indigenous tourism is a challenge, but I believe it is a solid step towards reconciliation with the wider community. Good operators include Wula Guda Nyinda - Aboriginal Cultural Tours run by Darren Capewell out of Shark Bay (wulaguda.com.au), Kepa Kurl in Esperance (kepakurl.com.au), and Darngku Heritage Cruises in the Geikie Gorge national park, West Kimberley (darngku.com.au).Greg Nannup, executive director, Indigenous Tours WA (indigenouswa.com), which runs a tour in Kings Park, PerthIn Sydney, the inner east continues to dominate with new arrivals. The coolest and most happening places are following the current Parisienne trend of small, more modest owner-operated places (no big banker boys as backers) that offer great value, innovative food and wine, a relaxed ambience and a terrific design aesthetic. Duke Bistro and Porteno (porteno.com.au) tick all the boxes. Melbourne CBD is jam-packed with dynamic small bars and restaurants. My current favourites are Cutler + Co (the bar snacks are the best in Australia; cutlerandco.com.au), Movida Aqui (movida.com.au) and Den Izakaya (sensational sake list and uber-cool; izakayaden.com.au). Attica (attica.com.au) offers some of the more inventive menus in Australia.Foraging has sparked a lot of interest and chefs are increasingly out there looking for wild produce. Ethical food and sustainability will continue to make a big impact in the market. Pop-up restaurants/guerilla dining should make a greater impact and should be fully supported and encouraged. It's a brilliant initiative that has been around in other countries for a while - such as Hong Kong's private kitchens - and can provide a wonderful showcase for creative talent without enormous overheads or burdening bureaucracy.\u2022 Christine Manfield, the owner of Universal restaurant in Sydney; universalrestaurant.comSome of the best surfing spots in Australia are in the Margaret River region, Western Australia (margaretriver.com). The Margaret River Main Break is the most consistent wave. It's very powerful \u2013 it breaks from 2ft to 20ft \u2013 and is where all the locals surf every day. Intermediate surfers can also try Left Handers, or Lefties. This is a very nice wave that breaks on small to medium swell, but can get very crowded. North Point is one of the best right-hander reef breaks WA has to offer. It's a long barrelling wave that people travel from all over the world to surf when the swell is up. The Box is a very heavy right hander that breaks over a very shallow reef. You can expect to end up in hospital if you don't approach this wave with caution \u2013 so experienced surfers only. Cow Bombie is a wave that breaks about 2km out to sea. You need a jet ski to ride it as it only starts to break at around 15ft but handles up to 40ft. You have to be a bit crazy to have a go out there ... This wave is deadly and should only be attacked by very experienced surfers.\u2022 Intrepid Travel's Western Wildlife Experience is a 10-day road trip from Adelaide to Perth, including a surfing lesson and a day in Margaret river. Prices start at \u00a3850 excluding flights, with camping, hostel and farm accommodation. intrepidtravel.com.Josh Palmateer, surfing instructor and former champion (mrsurf.com.au)There is no doubt Australia enjoys playing big brother to little brother New Zealand, but when it comes to unique and exhilarating activities it seems the latter makes big bro look a bit of a Jesse. After all, in New Zealand, you can jump from it, swing from it, fly in it, get strapped to it and yes, even run naked through it (the Homer Tunnel annual naked run, if you're wondering). But, although little New Zealand is undoubtedly the master of all things 'Whoahhhh', Australia has its fair share too. If time is short, perhaps the best conglomerate can be accessed on the Gold Coast and at its six state-of-the-art theme parks that include Movie World, Sea World and Wet'n'Wild. And before you groan at the very thought of dodgems and Donald Duck, think again. Times have certainly changed and now you can join in sub-aqua shark feeding; try a rapid 4.5G vertical launch on the 60m 'Batwing'; go 0-100km in two seconds on the 'Superman Escape', or do the 'Kamikaze' and plunge 11m in something akin to a blow-up banana. Splashtacular!\u2022\u00a0The theme parks are all operated under the auspices of My Fun Australia and cost about \u00a334/\u00a322 for entry, with cheaper multi-park passes available; myfun.com.au.\u2022 Darroch Donald produces Australasian travel-related iPhone Apps with Sutro Media, sutromedia.comThe Gold Coast (goldcoast.com.au) has everything: great weather, the best beaches in the world, and challenging mountain biking. France is famous for its fields of sunflowers, but you'll be blown away when you ride through the golden cane fields around Murwillumbah. You'll see some spectacular panoramic views of the coast on rides into the Gold Coast mountains of Binna Burra and Springbrook. One of my favourite rides is down in the Tallebudgera Valley. It's a quiet road with the very best of the Gold Coast: cane fields, rainforests, local farmers and the occasional kangaroo. Cyclists in Australia always schedule a coffee break. One of my top coffee stops is on the ride to Uki. After riding through the quiet roads in the cradle of Mount Warning, an ancient volcano, you come to the quaint Uki Caf\u00e9 (ukicafe.com.au). They have some great coffee and even better cakes, to fuel you up for the ride home. Another great coffee stop is Piccolo Espresso Cafe in Miami. During the Australian summer there's always a chance you'll bump into Tour De France legend Robbie McEwen, one of the owners.Ashley Pettit, cycling guide for Gold Coast Cycling Tours (goldcoastcyclingtours.com.au)Compiled by Rachel Dixon", "tags": ["Australasia holidays", "The Ashes", "Brisbane holidays", "Sydney holidays", "Melbourne holidays", "Perth holidays", "Cultural trips", "Food and drink", "Adventure travel", "Surfing holidays", "Bars and clubs", "Shopping trips", "Travel", "Ashes 2010-11"], "title": "Insiders' guide to Australia"},{"date": "2010-11-27T00:06:07Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Art fans curious about Chinese contemporary art should go to White Rabbit Gallery in Chippendale (whiterabbitcollection.org), a four-storey private collection that's free to visit. The Art Gallery NSW (artgallery.nsw.gov.au) now also has a superb Asian wing, with a new permanent indigenous collection.The Sydney Theatre Company (sydneytheatre.com.au) has gone from strength to strength under artistic directors Cate Blanchett and Andrew Upton. The theatre precinct in Walsh Bay now has great bars and restaurants, so you can dine well before a show and enjoy harbour views while you do so.Darling Harbour is always evolving and Surry Hills/Darlinghurst is now bar and restaurant central. Kings Cross has been gentrified, although it still has its sleazy side (the old neon strip club signs are heritage-protected!). Bennelong Point, ugly until a decade ago, has an Italian-style colonnade in the walk up to the Opera House. A drink at Opera Bar (operabar.com.au) opposite the Harbour Bridge as the sun sets is an essential experience.Nick Dent, editor of Time Out Sydney (timeoutsydney.com.au), which is now a magazine, website and iPhone app For three weeks each January, the Sydney Festival (sydneyfestival.org.au, 8-30 January) has a programme of 500-plus artists from Australia and elsewhere, and three years ago introduced a new opening event, Festival First Night, when 300,000 people take to city streets transformed into free stages and precincts.The Finders Keepers (thefinders keepers.com) holds a twice-yearly indie craft event in Sydney and Brisbane, featuring emerging designers and their cool and affordable wares, plus live music, cafe and bar.If you're into fresh produce and meeting growers and producers, Eveleigh Farmer's Market (eveleighmarket.com.au) will appeal. The heritage-listed market is home to more than 80 farmers and artisan food producers every Saturday morning.Sydneysiders love their caffeine, and Campos Specialty Coffee (camposcoffee.com) has just opened its first Cupping Room \u2013 offering a complete theatrical, sensory experience of the humble coffee bean \u2013 in Newtown.Adriano Zumbo (adrianozumbo.com), a contemporary French-inspired patisserie in Balmain, showcases some of the most desirable, inventive cakes this side of the equator (think beetroot and raspberry macaroons).Carrie Choo, founder of Daily Addict (dailyaddict.com.au), a lifestyle guide to Sydney and Melbourne Guardian tip Budget travellers can stay in the new Sydney Harbour youth hostel (yha.com.au), with views of the Opera House and the bridge, from \u00a324 a night in a six-bed dormTony Wheeler of Lonely Planet fame is one of many sponsors of The Wheeler Centre (wheelercentre.com), a new cultural hub on Little Lonsdale Street encouraging all things literary, including Lunchbox/Soapbox, an old-fashioned Speakers' Corner. Bring your lunch and listen to writers sounding off.The Australian Centre for the Moving Image (acmi.net.au) in Federation Square is worth a visit for its alternative cinema options. Or there's Underground Cinema (undergroundcinema.com.au), monthly cinema experiences that take place in changing secret locations depending on the mystery film shown.Shop on Gertrude Street for all things quirky and unique. My hit list includes fashion boutique Left (leftmelbourne.blogspot.com), Amor y Locura (amorylocura.com) for antiques and pre-loved treasures, Industria X (industriax.com.au) for ex-industrial furniture and vintage wares, Aesop for beautiful plant-based skincare, Spacecraft (spacecraftaustralia.com) for its vibrant printed homewares and Books for Cooks.Der Raum (derraum.com.au) has an array of food and drink awards and serves daily hand-pressed juices, old-world elixirs, super-premium spirits and sports one very fine cocktail ice machine (they boast it's the finest in the world). It's a must-visit establishment for cocktail novices and connoisseurs both. Cumulus Inc (cumulusinc.com.au) is a foodie favourite for breakfast, but it is humming at any time of day, churning out Andrew McConnell's well-thought-out informal dishes, ideal for sharing.Carrie Choo (as before)Guardian tip Art Aficionado (artaficionadotours.com) is a new walking tour operation. The three-hour Inside The Labyrinth tour visits six contemporary art galleries in the city, plus sites of cultural interest. Tours cost \u00a337pp and start at 2pm on Fridays Perth's bar scene has taken off in the past year or so. You'll find plenty of desirable bars in the city centre and Northbridge. Of the central offerings, Helvetica (helveticabar.com), specialising in whiskey, and Andaluz (andaluzbar.com.au), offering modern tapas and a killer wine list, are personal favourites. The crowds are mixed, the settings are in that exposed brick/Chesterfield-lounge-stolen-from-rich-grandma's-house style.The suburb of Northbridge boasts Ezra Pound (189 William St), a hidden speakeasy-style joint where cocktails are served in old jam jars. On the same street is The Bird (williamstreetbird.com), which has live gigs and fun nights (hip-hop karaoke, anyone?), and 399 (399bar.com), which isn't as vocal in terms of hipster-chic but has some of the best bartenders and spirits in the state. It's worth noting that these small bars are legally allowed a maximum of 120 people, so try to make it there before 8.30pm or you'll be in for a wait. If waiting and small spaces aren't your speed, visit Little Creatures (littlecreatures.com.au), a Fremantle-born brewery and pub right on the harbour which is a must-visit for beer (or Perth) lovers.Rachael Ciccarelli (twitter.com/rachthething), freelance journalist with the West Australian newspaperIf you're in Perth, you must have dinner at dusk at the Indiana (indiana.com.au) on Cottesloe beach. The balcony and dining room are the perfect spots to sample fresh Western Australia produce while watching the surf and an amazing sunset. A few metres down the road is the OBH (Ocean Beach Hotel if you're new in town, obh.com.au). It also overlooks the sea and has a restaurant but most come here for a liquid lunch, particularly on a Sunday. Sunday sessions are a Perth tradition, something to do with sunny afternoons, closed shops and any number of top breweries in the city. Shane Osborn, head chef and co-owner of London's Pied \u00e0 Terre (pied-a-terre.co.uk)Guardian tip When you fly to Perth (and Brisbane, Melbourne or Sydney) with Emirates, the Visit Australia Pass gives you discounted rates on internal flights. See emirates.com for detailsBrisbane is without doubt the new kid on the cultural block. The South Bank is the cultural precinct and has recently undergone a dramatic makeover including a new Gallery of Modern Art (qag.qld.gov.au), a refurbished Queensland Performing Arts Centre (qpac.com.au), and the redevelopment of the State Library (slq.qld.gov.au) by Donovan Hill. The precinct is linked to the city centre by Cox Rayner's spidery Kurilpa Bridge, which opened last year and has already become a city landmark.To the east of the city centre is New Farm, with its vibrant restaurant scene, and the Brisbane Powerhouse (brisbanepowerhouse.org), converted from a 1920s turbine hall into alternative performance spaces.If you have more time, take a day trip to Stradbroke Island, a design mecca and home to a plethora of dwellings designed by some of Queensland's hottest architects.Michael Rayner, architect, Cox Rayner (coxarchitecture.com.au)Guardian tip Tourism Australia's free Go Ashes iPhone app (go to australia.com/ashes to download) features in-depth city guides to all the Ashes cities, plus all the latest cricket news, of course The Reading Room (thereadingroom-renewadelaide.blogspot.com) is a good starting point for Adelaide culture: it's a library-cum-lounge with gallery and cinema. Magazine Gallery on Clubhouse Lane is a cool little artspace that's only been open for a few months.Format (format.net.au) is a multi-purpose creative hub in Adelaide, runing exhibitions and gigs, plus arts and community events. A two-week festival in February/March, includes visual art, literature workshops and urban art. You might also want to look at the Five Thousand website (fivethousand.com.au), a sort of What's On in Adelaide for local hipsters.Ianto Ware, creative director, FormatMy favourite restaurants include Mesa Lunga (mesalunga.com) for tapas, the Oyster Bar at Glenelg (oysterbar.com.au) and the Lion Hotel (thelionhotel.com). Waymouth Street is the place for drinks \u2013 try Gallery (galleryonwaymouth.com.au) or Georges (georgesonwaymouth.com.au). Brooke Liebelt, marketing executive and Adelaide localGuardian tip Qantas Holidays (020-8222 9124, qantasholidays.co.uk) is offering two free nights on a five-night stay at Adelaide's Rockford Hotel, from \u00a3232pp for the whole stay. From Adelaide, a one-day trip to Kangaroo Island with Kangaroo Island Wilderness Tours (wildernesstours.com.au), including 4WD touring and lunch, costs \u00a3243ppMy favourite wine destination in Australia is the Giant Steps winery (giant-steps.com.au) in the Yarra Valley. In many ways it encapsulates the new Australia. First, it's not in some bucolic vineyard setting but on the (slightly less than bustling) main drag of Healesville in the heart of the Yarra. It is modern, strong, confident and bloody brilliant. There's a wood fire for real pizza, an in-house baker, a cheese room, a football table, unusually cool people behind the bar (wine regions don't normally do cool), and all-pervasive spirit and passion.And then there is the wine. Almost exclusively single-vineyard, brilliantly made, focused and stylish, chardonnays and pinot noirs really \u2013 and I mean really \u2013 make a statement here. It's the brainchild of a bloke called Phil Sexton. He flies small planes, builds great businesses, makes great wines, has beautiful children and stays fit in his 50s. I hate him. And his winery.Stuart Gregor, retired wine author who now runs PR company Liquid Ideas (liquidideas.com.au) and has a small winery in the Yarra ValleyHamilton Island (hamiltonisland.com.au), the largest inhabited island of the Whitsunday off Queensland, offers a number of unique experiences. Glenn Bourke, the island's chief executive, recommends a stay on Australia's only permanent-structure marine accommodation.Fantasea Adventure Cruising, an eco-certified operator, offers a Reefsleep Experience package with nights either side on Hamilton Island (fantasea.com.au, from \u00a3285pp). \"Spending the night on a floating pontoon, 40 miles offshore on the Great Barrier Reef with only tropical marine life for company, is both magical and unforgettable,\" he says.Chef Jane-Therese Mulry (of the Qualia luxury resort) sings the praises of the local food scene: \"Hamilton Island's Great Barrier Feast series (hamiltonisland.com.au/feast) is a celebration of Australia's culinary soul. After being Marco Pierre White's first female head chef in London, I developed a passion for using only the freshest ingredients \u2013 and it doesn't get better than North Queensland produce.\"The arts scene is on the up too, says David McAllister, artistic director of the Australian Ballet. \"The Australian Ballet's third annual performance on Hamilton Island in July 2011 (hamiltonisland.com.au/australian-ballet) has become an important event on the calendar for us. It provides patrons with exclusive behind-the-scenes access to the Australian Ballet in one of Australia's most beautiful locations, culminating in a magical sunset performance with the Whitsundays as a backdrop.\"Tarkine Forest Adventures (adventure forests.com.au/tarkine) is found at Dismal Swamp near Togari in north-west Tasmania. Dismal Swamp is a natural blackwood forest sinkhole, believed to be the only remaining one of its kind in the world. The floor of the sinkhole is 40m deep, and can be reached by a walking track \u2013 or much more quickly by taking the 110m slide from the viewing platform. Two trips down the slide are included in the admission price (\u00a312 per adult).In December 2007, cruise operator Robert Pennicott expanded operations in southern Tasmania with the launch of Tasman Island Cruises (tasmancruises.com.au). The coastline here is spectacular, and there is a great variety of marine wildlife and seabirds to be seen, from seals, whales, sharks and dolphins to albatrosses, eagles and falcons. Full-day tours include an eco-cruise and an optional visit to the Port Arthur historic convict site, the Tasmanian Devil Conservation Park or the Federation Chocolate factory and museum (from \u00a3100pp; cheaper three-hour tours are also available).Donna and Tony Gibbons, local experts on Tasmania for MyDestinationInfo.com (mydestinationinfo.com)Guardian tip There's a buzz about the opening of Mona (Museum of Old and New Art, mona.net.au) near Hobart in January. Stay in one of the Mona pavilions, featuring artwork from the collection, for \u00a3306 a night including breakfast, through Bridge & Wickers (bridgeandwickers.co.uk)Ningaloo Reef is the largest fringing coral reef in the country. Temperate and tropical currents meet in Ningaloo, resulting in highly diverse marine life, including spectacular coral reefs and abundant fish, turtles, whale sharks, dugongs, whales and dolphins. The reef is home to more than 500 species of fish, 600 species of mollusc and 200 species of coral alone. It also has diverse marine communities, including mangroves, algae and filter-feeding. The close proximity of the reef to the shore (it is the only large reef located very close to a land mass) means visitors can enjoy a wide variety of activities without the need for lengthy boat trips.Seasonal aggregations of whale sharks, manta rays, sea turtles and whales, as well as the annual mass coral spawning, provide unique opportunities for visitors to observe marine fauna and key biological processes. Some of the best places to snorkel are at tourist hot spots such as Turquoise Bay, Oyster Stacks and Coral Bay, but there are other places (many better than those just listed) \u2013 they simply require the visitor to do some exploring. Alternatively, jump on a licensed charter boat for a trip out to some incredible places that only local operators know about.One thing visitors to the area always comment on is that nowhere else in Australia do they see such an abundant display of \"iconic\" Australian land animals, such as emus, kangaroos, wallabies and echidnas, together in one place. In the town of Exmouth, emus wander the streets \u2013 a sight that is quite amazing even for locals who have been living here for years.\u2022 Responsible Travel (responsibletravel.com) has a nine-day Ningaloo Reef sailing holiday on a luxury catamaran from \u00a32,531, excluding flightsRay De Jong, ranger, Cape Range national parkSwimming with lightning-fast bluefin tuna near the coastal town of Port Lincoln on the Eyre peninsula in South Australia is an unforgettable experience. Other exceptional aquatic experiences include snorkelling with sea lions, whale watching, diving with cuttlefish and cage shark diving. The Eyre peninsula is known as \"nature's playground\" \u2013 getting up close and personal with wildlife is the norm.Matt Waller, a fourth-generation fisherman and skipper at Adventure Bay Charters (adventurebaycharters.com.au)British tourists tend to focus on Australia's coastal cities, but there are some magnificent towns inland. Kyneton in Victoria is a particularly beautiful town that's only two hours' drive from Melbourne. It has a lazy, old world charm: original settlers' houses, a hotel straight out of the wild west, the courthouse where they tried Ned Kelly.My favourite national park is Mungo in New South Wales, which is home to the oldest human remains outside of East Africa. The landscape is staggering, changing suddenly from rolling green land to sand dunes to rock. In the middle of Australia, Cameron's Corner is quite a sight. It's where the states of Queensland, South Australia and New South Wales meet and the Dingo Fence \u2013 the longest fence in the world \u2013 passes through. I've cycled around there with four or five dingos running alongside me.Cairns, in Queensland, is a great party city, with fantastic bars and restaurants and good diving. But go inland and you'll pass through rainforest and come to Atherton. It's a town surrounded by bright green farmland, where an amazing array of fruit and vegetables is grown, including pineapples and guava. You'll also find local cheese and chocolate, so it's a good place to relax at the end of an active holiday.\u2022 Sign up to cycle in a group from Melbourne to Cairns in May next year (Route A is 3,200km, Route B is 2,094km) at transozbikeride.com.Mike Laird, explorer who cycled solo across the outback this year.   Guardian tip If cycling across Australia sounds too much like hard work, Austravel (0800 988 4834, austravel.com) has a new itinerary, Down the Middle: Darwin to Adelaide, allowing you to cross the country in more comfort. Marking the 150th anniversary of John Mcdouall Stuart's crossing, the trip includes flights, seven nights hotel accommodation (in Darwin, Alice Springs and Adelaide), a camping safari and train travel on the Ghan. The 12-night trip costs \u00a32,889pp, departing on selected dates in May 2011The Silky Oaks Lodge (+61 7 4098 1666, silkyoakslodge.com.au) in the Daintree, in tropical north Queensland, is a polished eco-lodge in one of the world's oldest rainforests. This year it launched a zero carbon offset plan. The rooms (from \u00a3200 per night) come with a private hammock and garden, oversized spa tubs and river views. The restaurant is built on hardwood stilts to see canopy life, and offers a reef and rainforest menu. The spa incorporates organic Australian treatments. Guides share aromatic jungle fruits while demonstrating forest diversity, including the cassowary, a large blue-headed relative of an emu.Hannah Robinson, author of Australia: An Ecotraveller's GuideToday there are some wonderful Aboriginal art galleries to visit in and around Perth, such as the Aboriginal Art Gallery in Kings Park (aboriginalgallery.com.au), Creative Native in the city (creativenative.com.au), Maalinup Aboriginal Art Gallery in the Swan Valley (maalinup.com.au) and True Blue Gallery in Fremantle (truebluegallery.com). Western Australia is also home to some of the most talented indigenous dance groups in the country.These day, many tour operators are trying to educate visitors about the oldest living culture on the planet while developing indigenous employment opportunities. Indigenous tourism is a challenge, but I believe it is a solid step towards reconciliation with the wider community. Good operators include Wula Guda Nyinda - Aboriginal Cultural Tours run by Darren Capewell out of Shark Bay (wulaguda.com.au), Kepa Kurl in Esperance (kepakurl.com.au), and Darngku Heritage Cruises in the Geikie Gorge national park, West Kimberley (darngku.com.au).Greg Nannup, executive director, Indigenous Tours WA (indigenouswa.com), which runs a tour in Kings Park, PerthIn Sydney, the inner east continues to dominate with new arrivals. The coolest and most happening places are following the current Parisienne trend of small, more modest owner-operated places (no big banker boys as backers) that offer great value, innovative food and wine, a relaxed ambience and a terrific design aesthetic. Duke Bistro and Porteno (porteno.com.au) tick all the boxes. Melbourne CBD is jam-packed with dynamic small bars and restaurants. My current favourites are Cutler + Co (the bar snacks are the best in Australia; cutlerandco.com.au), Movida Aqui (movida.com.au) and Den Izakaya (sensational sake list and uber-cool; izakayaden.com.au). Attica (attica.com.au) offers some of the more inventive menus in Australia.Foraging has sparked a lot of interest and chefs are increasingly out there looking for wild produce. Ethical food and sustainability will continue to make a big impact in the market. Pop-up restaurants/guerilla dining should make a greater impact and should be fully supported and encouraged. It's a brilliant initiative that has been around in other countries for a while - such as Hong Kong's private kitchens - and can provide a wonderful showcase for creative talent without enormous overheads or burdening bureaucracy.\u2022 Christine Manfield, the owner of Universal restaurant in Sydney; universalrestaurant.comSome of the best surfing spots in Australia are in the Margaret River region, Western Australia (margaretriver.com). The Margaret River Main Break is the most consistent wave. It's very powerful \u2013 it breaks from 2ft to 20ft \u2013 and is where all the locals surf every day. Intermediate surfers can also try Left Handers, or Lefties. This is a very nice wave that breaks on small to medium swell, but can get very crowded. North Point is one of the best right-hander reef breaks WA has to offer. It's a long barrelling wave that people travel from all over the world to surf when the swell is up. The Box is a very heavy right hander that breaks over a very shallow reef. You can expect to end up in hospital if you don't approach this wave with caution \u2013 so experienced surfers only. Cow Bombie is a wave that breaks about 2km out to sea. You need a jet ski to ride it as it only starts to break at around 15ft but handles up to 40ft. You have to be a bit crazy to have a go out there ... This wave is deadly and should only be attacked by very experienced surfers.\u2022 Intrepid Travel's Western Wildlife Experience is a 10-day road trip from Adelaide to Perth, including a surfing lesson and a day in Margaret river. Prices start at \u00a3850 excluding flights, with camping, hostel and farm accommodation. intrepidtravel.com.Josh Palmateer, surfing instructor and former champion (mrsurf.com.au)There is no doubt Australia enjoys playing big brother to little brother New Zealand, but when it comes to unique and exhilarating activities it seems the latter makes big bro look a bit of a Jesse. After all, in New Zealand, you can jump from it, swing from it, fly in it, get strapped to it and yes, even run naked through it (the Homer Tunnel annual naked run, if you're wondering). But, although little New Zealand is undoubtedly the master of all things 'Whoahhhh', Australia has its fair share too. If time is short, perhaps the best conglomerate can be accessed on the Gold Coast and at its six state-of-the-art theme parks that include Movie World, Sea World and Wet'n'Wild. And before you groan at the very thought of dodgems and Donald Duck, think again. Times have certainly changed and now you can join in sub-aqua shark feeding; try a rapid 4.5G vertical launch on the 60m 'Batwing'; go 0-100km in two seconds on the 'Superman Escape', or do the 'Kamikaze' and plunge 11m in something akin to a blow-up banana. Splashtacular!\u2022\u00a0The theme parks are all operated under the auspices of My Fun Australia and cost about \u00a334/\u00a322 for entry, with cheaper multi-park passes available; myfun.com.au.\u2022 Darroch Donald produces Australasian travel-related iPhone Apps with Sutro Media, sutromedia.comThe Gold Coast (goldcoast.com.au) has everything: great weather, the best beaches in the world, and challenging mountain biking. France is famous for its fields of sunflowers, but you'll be blown away when you ride through the golden cane fields around Murwillumbah. You'll see some spectacular panoramic views of the coast on rides into the Gold Coast mountains of Binna Burra and Springbrook. One of my favourite rides is down in the Tallebudgera Valley. It's a quiet road with the very best of the Gold Coast: cane fields, rainforests, local farmers and the occasional kangaroo. Cyclists in Australia always schedule a coffee break. One of my top coffee stops is on the ride to Uki. After riding through the quiet roads in the cradle of Mount Warning, an ancient volcano, you come to the quaint Uki Caf\u00e9 (ukicafe.com.au). They have some great coffee and even better cakes, to fuel you up for the ride home. Another great coffee stop is Piccolo Espresso Cafe in Miami. During the Australian summer there's always a chance you'll bump into Tour De France legend Robbie McEwen, one of the owners.Ashley Pettit, cycling guide for Gold Coast Cycling Tours (goldcoastcyclingtours.com.au)Compiled by Rachel Dixon", "tags": ["Australasia holidays", "The Ashes", "Brisbane holidays", "Sydney holidays", "Melbourne holidays", "Perth holidays", "Cultural trips", "Food and drink", "Adventure travel", "Surfing holidays", "Bars and clubs", "Shopping trips", "Travel", "Ashes 2010-11"], "title": "Insiders' guide to Australia"},{"date": "2010-11-16T14:00:45Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In the night, there had been yowls, growls and screams, so I expected that, in the morning, I would find some good film of our nocturnal visitors.The Tasmanian devil monitoring team had come to our house in north-west Tasmania, and had left me with an infra-red camera. We had skewered a fresh, large bone into the earth, a couple of metres from the camera. Each morning, I collected the camera's card and on my computer viewed some of the noisy characters who had tackled the bone.There were all sizes of devils, from a big male to youngsters born this year, and females, one appearing with her pouch so large it dragged on the ground, and on a later visit, the pouch was empty. Each devil has an individual pattern of white patches in the black fur, so, when viewed from all angles, it is possible to identify individuals.The monitoring team had caught many of these animals over the previous three nights, and had weighed, microchipped, sexed, estimated ages from their teeth and, crucially, had looked for signs of the Devil Facial Tumour Disease (DFTD).First described in the far north-east in 1996, it is so virulent that more than 90% of the devil population has been lost in the affected areas. However, the spread of the disease has slowed, leaving the south-west and the north-west disease-free so far.DFTD is a highly infectious cancer, that is transmitted through biting, which occurs in fighting, mating and play. Tumours grow rapidly around the face and jaws, which become ulcerated, bleeding and so large that they prevent feeding, so the animal starves to death. It is a terrible sight to see an affected mother, still feeding her pups in her pouch.The Tasmanian devil, (Sarcophilus harrisii) does not deserve its ferocious reputation. Since the extinction of the Tasmanian Thylacine, it is the last large carnivorous marsupial in the world. It mainly eats carrion, but is threatened by loss of habitat, by land-clearance, by death on the roads and now DFTD.The Save the Tasmanian Devil Programme, co-ordinated through the University of Tasmania, includes laboratory research, isolation of quarantined devils in sanctuaries and zoos, monitoring teams and public education.If all this fails, the Tasmanian devil goes the way of the Thylacine, and we are all impoverished.", "tags": ["Endangered species", "Australia news", "Australia holidays", "Wildlife holidays", "Asia Pacific", "Tasmania"], "title": "Australia: Sympathy for the devil"},{"date": "2010-11-27T00:06:07Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Art fans curious about Chinese contemporary art should go to White Rabbit Gallery in Chippendale (whiterabbitcollection.org), a four-storey private collection that's free to visit. The Art Gallery NSW (artgallery.nsw.gov.au) now also has a superb Asian wing, with a new permanent indigenous collection.The Sydney Theatre Company (sydneytheatre.com.au) has gone from strength to strength under artistic directors Cate Blanchett and Andrew Upton. The theatre precinct in Walsh Bay now has great bars and restaurants, so you can dine well before a show and enjoy harbour views while you do so.Darling Harbour is always evolving and Surry Hills/Darlinghurst is now bar and restaurant central. Kings Cross has been gentrified, although it still has its sleazy side (the old neon strip club signs are heritage-protected!). Bennelong Point, ugly until a decade ago, has an Italian-style colonnade in the walk up to the Opera House. A drink at Opera Bar (operabar.com.au) opposite the Harbour Bridge as the sun sets is an essential experience.Nick Dent, editor of Time Out Sydney (timeoutsydney.com.au), which is now a magazine, website and iPhone app For three weeks each January, the Sydney Festival (sydneyfestival.org.au, 8-30 January) has a programme of 500-plus artists from Australia and elsewhere, and three years ago introduced a new opening event, Festival First Night, when 300,000 people take to city streets transformed into free stages and precincts.The Finders Keepers (thefinders keepers.com) holds a twice-yearly indie craft event in Sydney and Brisbane, featuring emerging designers and their cool and affordable wares, plus live music, cafe and bar.If you're into fresh produce and meeting growers and producers, Eveleigh Farmer's Market (eveleighmarket.com.au) will appeal. The heritage-listed market is home to more than 80 farmers and artisan food producers every Saturday morning.Sydneysiders love their caffeine, and Campos Specialty Coffee (camposcoffee.com) has just opened its first Cupping Room \u2013 offering a complete theatrical, sensory experience of the humble coffee bean \u2013 in Newtown.Adriano Zumbo (adrianozumbo.com), a contemporary French-inspired patisserie in Balmain, showcases some of the most desirable, inventive cakes this side of the equator (think beetroot and raspberry macaroons).Carrie Choo, founder of Daily Addict (dailyaddict.com.au), a lifestyle guide to Sydney and Melbourne Guardian tip Budget travellers can stay in the new Sydney Harbour youth hostel (yha.com.au), with views of the Opera House and the bridge, from \u00a324 a night in a six-bed dormTony Wheeler of Lonely Planet fame is one of many sponsors of The Wheeler Centre (wheelercentre.com), a new cultural hub on Little Lonsdale Street encouraging all things literary, including Lunchbox/Soapbox, an old-fashioned Speakers' Corner. Bring your lunch and listen to writers sounding off.The Australian Centre for the Moving Image (acmi.net.au) in Federation Square is worth a visit for its alternative cinema options. Or there's Underground Cinema (undergroundcinema.com.au), monthly cinema experiences that take place in changing secret locations depending on the mystery film shown.Shop on Gertrude Street for all things quirky and unique. My hit list includes fashion boutique Left (leftmelbourne.blogspot.com), Amor y Locura (amorylocura.com) for antiques and pre-loved treasures, Industria X (industriax.com.au) for ex-industrial furniture and vintage wares, Aesop for beautiful plant-based skincare, Spacecraft (spacecraftaustralia.com) for its vibrant printed homewares and Books for Cooks.Der Raum (derraum.com.au) has an array of food and drink awards and serves daily hand-pressed juices, old-world elixirs, super-premium spirits and sports one very fine cocktail ice machine (they boast it's the finest in the world). It's a must-visit establishment for cocktail novices and connoisseurs both. Cumulus Inc (cumulusinc.com.au) is a foodie favourite for breakfast, but it is humming at any time of day, churning out Andrew McConnell's well-thought-out informal dishes, ideal for sharing.Carrie Choo (as before)Guardian tip Art Aficionado (artaficionadotours.com) is a new walking tour operation. The three-hour Inside The Labyrinth tour visits six contemporary art galleries in the city, plus sites of cultural interest. Tours cost \u00a337pp and start at 2pm on Fridays Perth's bar scene has taken off in the past year or so. You'll find plenty of desirable bars in the city centre and Northbridge. Of the central offerings, Helvetica (helveticabar.com), specialising in whiskey, and Andaluz (andaluzbar.com.au), offering modern tapas and a killer wine list, are personal favourites. The crowds are mixed, the settings are in that exposed brick/Chesterfield-lounge-stolen-from-rich-grandma's-house style.The suburb of Northbridge boasts Ezra Pound (189 William St), a hidden speakeasy-style joint where cocktails are served in old jam jars. On the same street is The Bird (williamstreetbird.com), which has live gigs and fun nights (hip-hop karaoke, anyone?), and 399 (399bar.com), which isn't as vocal in terms of hipster-chic but has some of the best bartenders and spirits in the state. It's worth noting that these small bars are legally allowed a maximum of 120 people, so try to make it there before 8.30pm or you'll be in for a wait. If waiting and small spaces aren't your speed, visit Little Creatures (littlecreatures.com.au), a Fremantle-born brewery and pub right on the harbour which is a must-visit for beer (or Perth) lovers.Rachael Ciccarelli (twitter.com/rachthething), freelance journalist with the West Australian newspaperIf you're in Perth, you must have dinner at dusk at the Indiana (indiana.com.au) on Cottesloe beach. The balcony and dining room are the perfect spots to sample fresh Western Australia produce while watching the surf and an amazing sunset. A few metres down the road is the OBH (Ocean Beach Hotel if you're new in town, obh.com.au). It also overlooks the sea and has a restaurant but most come here for a liquid lunch, particularly on a Sunday. Sunday sessions are a Perth tradition, something to do with sunny afternoons, closed shops and any number of top breweries in the city. Shane Osborn, head chef and co-owner of London's Pied \u00e0 Terre (pied-a-terre.co.uk)Guardian tip When you fly to Perth (and Brisbane, Melbourne or Sydney) with Emirates, the Visit Australia Pass gives you discounted rates on internal flights. See emirates.com for detailsBrisbane is without doubt the new kid on the cultural block. The South Bank is the cultural precinct and has recently undergone a dramatic makeover including a new Gallery of Modern Art (qag.qld.gov.au), a refurbished Queensland Performing Arts Centre (qpac.com.au), and the redevelopment of the State Library (slq.qld.gov.au) by Donovan Hill. The precinct is linked to the city centre by Cox Rayner's spidery Kurilpa Bridge, which opened last year and has already become a city landmark.To the east of the city centre is New Farm, with its vibrant restaurant scene, and the Brisbane Powerhouse (brisbanepowerhouse.org), converted from a 1920s turbine hall into alternative performance spaces.If you have more time, take a day trip to Stradbroke Island, a design mecca and home to a plethora of dwellings designed by some of Queensland's hottest architects.Michael Rayner, architect, Cox Rayner (coxarchitecture.com.au)Guardian tip Tourism Australia's free Go Ashes iPhone app (go to australia.com/ashes to download) features in-depth city guides to all the Ashes cities, plus all the latest cricket news, of course The Reading Room (thereadingroom-renewadelaide.blogspot.com) is a good starting point for Adelaide culture: it's a library-cum-lounge with gallery and cinema. Magazine Gallery on Clubhouse Lane is a cool little artspace that's only been open for a few months.Format (format.net.au) is a multi-purpose creative hub in Adelaide, runing exhibitions and gigs, plus arts and community events. A two-week festival in February/March, includes visual art, literature workshops and urban art. You might also want to look at the Five Thousand website (fivethousand.com.au), a sort of What's On in Adelaide for local hipsters.Ianto Ware, creative director, FormatMy favourite restaurants include Mesa Lunga (mesalunga.com) for tapas, the Oyster Bar at Glenelg (oysterbar.com.au) and the Lion Hotel (thelionhotel.com). Waymouth Street is the place for drinks \u2013 try Gallery (galleryonwaymouth.com.au) or Georges (georgesonwaymouth.com.au). Brooke Liebelt, marketing executive and Adelaide localGuardian tip Qantas Holidays (020-8222 9124, qantasholidays.co.uk) is offering two free nights on a five-night stay at Adelaide's Rockford Hotel, from \u00a3232pp for the whole stay. From Adelaide, a one-day trip to Kangaroo Island with Kangaroo Island Wilderness Tours (wildernesstours.com.au), including 4WD touring and lunch, costs \u00a3243ppMy favourite wine destination in Australia is the Giant Steps winery (giant-steps.com.au) in the Yarra Valley. In many ways it encapsulates the new Australia. First, it's not in some bucolic vineyard setting but on the (slightly less than bustling) main drag of Healesville in the heart of the Yarra. It is modern, strong, confident and bloody brilliant. There's a wood fire for real pizza, an in-house baker, a cheese room, a football table, unusually cool people behind the bar (wine regions don't normally do cool), and all-pervasive spirit and passion.And then there is the wine. Almost exclusively single-vineyard, brilliantly made, focused and stylish, chardonnays and pinot noirs really \u2013 and I mean really \u2013 make a statement here. It's the brainchild of a bloke called Phil Sexton. He flies small planes, builds great businesses, makes great wines, has beautiful children and stays fit in his 50s. I hate him. And his winery.Stuart Gregor, retired wine author who now runs PR company Liquid Ideas (liquidideas.com.au) and has a small winery in the Yarra ValleyHamilton Island (hamiltonisland.com.au), the largest inhabited island of the Whitsunday off Queensland, offers a number of unique experiences. Glenn Bourke, the island's chief executive, recommends a stay on Australia's only permanent-structure marine accommodation.Fantasea Adventure Cruising, an eco-certified operator, offers a Reefsleep Experience package with nights either side on Hamilton Island (fantasea.com.au, from \u00a3285pp). \"Spending the night on a floating pontoon, 40 miles offshore on the Great Barrier Reef with only tropical marine life for company, is both magical and unforgettable,\" he says.Chef Jane-Therese Mulry (of the Qualia luxury resort) sings the praises of the local food scene: \"Hamilton Island's Great Barrier Feast series (hamiltonisland.com.au/feast) is a celebration of Australia's culinary soul. After being Marco Pierre White's first female head chef in London, I developed a passion for using only the freshest ingredients \u2013 and it doesn't get better than North Queensland produce.\"The arts scene is on the up too, says David McAllister, artistic director of the Australian Ballet. \"The Australian Ballet's third annual performance on Hamilton Island in July 2011 (hamiltonisland.com.au/australian-ballet) has become an important event on the calendar for us. It provides patrons with exclusive behind-the-scenes access to the Australian Ballet in one of Australia's most beautiful locations, culminating in a magical sunset performance with the Whitsundays as a backdrop.\"Tarkine Forest Adventures (adventure forests.com.au/tarkine) is found at Dismal Swamp near Togari in north-west Tasmania. Dismal Swamp is a natural blackwood forest sinkhole, believed to be the only remaining one of its kind in the world. The floor of the sinkhole is 40m deep, and can be reached by a walking track \u2013 or much more quickly by taking the 110m slide from the viewing platform. Two trips down the slide are included in the admission price (\u00a312 per adult).In December 2007, cruise operator Robert Pennicott expanded operations in southern Tasmania with the launch of Tasman Island Cruises (tasmancruises.com.au). The coastline here is spectacular, and there is a great variety of marine wildlife and seabirds to be seen, from seals, whales, sharks and dolphins to albatrosses, eagles and falcons. Full-day tours include an eco-cruise and an optional visit to the Port Arthur historic convict site, the Tasmanian Devil Conservation Park or the Federation Chocolate factory and museum (from \u00a3100pp; cheaper three-hour tours are also available).Donna and Tony Gibbons, local experts on Tasmania for MyDestinationInfo.com (mydestinationinfo.com)Guardian tip There's a buzz about the opening of Mona (Museum of Old and New Art, mona.net.au) near Hobart in January. Stay in one of the Mona pavilions, featuring artwork from the collection, for \u00a3306 a night including breakfast, through Bridge & Wickers (bridgeandwickers.co.uk)Ningaloo Reef is the largest fringing coral reef in the country. Temperate and tropical currents meet in Ningaloo, resulting in highly diverse marine life, including spectacular coral reefs and abundant fish, turtles, whale sharks, dugongs, whales and dolphins. The reef is home to more than 500 species of fish, 600 species of mollusc and 200 species of coral alone. It also has diverse marine communities, including mangroves, algae and filter-feeding. The close proximity of the reef to the shore (it is the only large reef located very close to a land mass) means visitors can enjoy a wide variety of activities without the need for lengthy boat trips.Seasonal aggregations of whale sharks, manta rays, sea turtles and whales, as well as the annual mass coral spawning, provide unique opportunities for visitors to observe marine fauna and key biological processes. Some of the best places to snorkel are at tourist hot spots such as Turquoise Bay, Oyster Stacks and Coral Bay, but there are other places (many better than those just listed) \u2013 they simply require the visitor to do some exploring. Alternatively, jump on a licensed charter boat for a trip out to some incredible places that only local operators know about.One thing visitors to the area always comment on is that nowhere else in Australia do they see such an abundant display of \"iconic\" Australian land animals, such as emus, kangaroos, wallabies and echidnas, together in one place. In the town of Exmouth, emus wander the streets \u2013 a sight that is quite amazing even for locals who have been living here for years.\u2022 Responsible Travel (responsibletravel.com) has a nine-day Ningaloo Reef sailing holiday on a luxury catamaran from \u00a32,531, excluding flightsRay De Jong, ranger, Cape Range national parkSwimming with lightning-fast bluefin tuna near the coastal town of Port Lincoln on the Eyre peninsula in South Australia is an unforgettable experience. Other exceptional aquatic experiences include snorkelling with sea lions, whale watching, diving with cuttlefish and cage shark diving. The Eyre peninsula is known as \"nature's playground\" \u2013 getting up close and personal with wildlife is the norm.Matt Waller, a fourth-generation fisherman and skipper at Adventure Bay Charters (adventurebaycharters.com.au)British tourists tend to focus on Australia's coastal cities, but there are some magnificent towns inland. Kyneton in Victoria is a particularly beautiful town that's only two hours' drive from Melbourne. It has a lazy, old world charm: original settlers' houses, a hotel straight out of the wild west, the courthouse where they tried Ned Kelly.My favourite national park is Mungo in New South Wales, which is home to the oldest human remains outside of East Africa. The landscape is staggering, changing suddenly from rolling green land to sand dunes to rock. In the middle of Australia, Cameron's Corner is quite a sight. It's where the states of Queensland, South Australia and New South Wales meet and the Dingo Fence \u2013 the longest fence in the world \u2013 passes through. I've cycled around there with four or five dingos running alongside me.Cairns, in Queensland, is a great party city, with fantastic bars and restaurants and good diving. But go inland and you'll pass through rainforest and come to Atherton. It's a town surrounded by bright green farmland, where an amazing array of fruit and vegetables is grown, including pineapples and guava. You'll also find local cheese and chocolate, so it's a good place to relax at the end of an active holiday.\u2022 Sign up to cycle in a group from Melbourne to Cairns in May next year (Route A is 3,200km, Route B is 2,094km) at transozbikeride.com.Mike Laird, explorer who cycled solo across the outback this year.   Guardian tip If cycling across Australia sounds too much like hard work, Austravel (0800 988 4834, austravel.com) has a new itinerary, Down the Middle: Darwin to Adelaide, allowing you to cross the country in more comfort. Marking the 150th anniversary of John Mcdouall Stuart's crossing, the trip includes flights, seven nights hotel accommodation (in Darwin, Alice Springs and Adelaide), a camping safari and train travel on the Ghan. The 12-night trip costs \u00a32,889pp, departing on selected dates in May 2011The Silky Oaks Lodge (+61 7 4098 1666, silkyoakslodge.com.au) in the Daintree, in tropical north Queensland, is a polished eco-lodge in one of the world's oldest rainforests. This year it launched a zero carbon offset plan. The rooms (from \u00a3200 per night) come with a private hammock and garden, oversized spa tubs and river views. The restaurant is built on hardwood stilts to see canopy life, and offers a reef and rainforest menu. The spa incorporates organic Australian treatments. Guides share aromatic jungle fruits while demonstrating forest diversity, including the cassowary, a large blue-headed relative of an emu.Hannah Robinson, author of Australia: An Ecotraveller's GuideToday there are some wonderful Aboriginal art galleries to visit in and around Perth, such as the Aboriginal Art Gallery in Kings Park (aboriginalgallery.com.au), Creative Native in the city (creativenative.com.au), Maalinup Aboriginal Art Gallery in the Swan Valley (maalinup.com.au) and True Blue Gallery in Fremantle (truebluegallery.com). Western Australia is also home to some of the most talented indigenous dance groups in the country.These day, many tour operators are trying to educate visitors about the oldest living culture on the planet while developing indigenous employment opportunities. Indigenous tourism is a challenge, but I believe it is a solid step towards reconciliation with the wider community. Good operators include Wula Guda Nyinda - Aboriginal Cultural Tours run by Darren Capewell out of Shark Bay (wulaguda.com.au), Kepa Kurl in Esperance (kepakurl.com.au), and Darngku Heritage Cruises in the Geikie Gorge national park, West Kimberley (darngku.com.au).Greg Nannup, executive director, Indigenous Tours WA (indigenouswa.com), which runs a tour in Kings Park, PerthIn Sydney, the inner east continues to dominate with new arrivals. The coolest and most happening places are following the current Parisienne trend of small, more modest owner-operated places (no big banker boys as backers) that offer great value, innovative food and wine, a relaxed ambience and a terrific design aesthetic. Duke Bistro and Porteno (porteno.com.au) tick all the boxes. Melbourne CBD is jam-packed with dynamic small bars and restaurants. My current favourites are Cutler + Co (the bar snacks are the best in Australia; cutlerandco.com.au), Movida Aqui (movida.com.au) and Den Izakaya (sensational sake list and uber-cool; izakayaden.com.au). Attica (attica.com.au) offers some of the more inventive menus in Australia.Foraging has sparked a lot of interest and chefs are increasingly out there looking for wild produce. Ethical food and sustainability will continue to make a big impact in the market. Pop-up restaurants/guerilla dining should make a greater impact and should be fully supported and encouraged. It's a brilliant initiative that has been around in other countries for a while - such as Hong Kong's private kitchens - and can provide a wonderful showcase for creative talent without enormous overheads or burdening bureaucracy.\u2022 Christine Manfield, the owner of Universal restaurant in Sydney; universalrestaurant.comSome of the best surfing spots in Australia are in the Margaret River region, Western Australia (margaretriver.com). The Margaret River Main Break is the most consistent wave. It's very powerful \u2013 it breaks from 2ft to 20ft \u2013 and is where all the locals surf every day. Intermediate surfers can also try Left Handers, or Lefties. This is a very nice wave that breaks on small to medium swell, but can get very crowded. North Point is one of the best right-hander reef breaks WA has to offer. It's a long barrelling wave that people travel from all over the world to surf when the swell is up. The Box is a very heavy right hander that breaks over a very shallow reef. You can expect to end up in hospital if you don't approach this wave with caution \u2013 so experienced surfers only. Cow Bombie is a wave that breaks about 2km out to sea. You need a jet ski to ride it as it only starts to break at around 15ft but handles up to 40ft. You have to be a bit crazy to have a go out there ... This wave is deadly and should only be attacked by very experienced surfers.\u2022 Intrepid Travel's Western Wildlife Experience is a 10-day road trip from Adelaide to Perth, including a surfing lesson and a day in Margaret river. Prices start at \u00a3850 excluding flights, with camping, hostel and farm accommodation. intrepidtravel.com.Josh Palmateer, surfing instructor and former champion (mrsurf.com.au)There is no doubt Australia enjoys playing big brother to little brother New Zealand, but when it comes to unique and exhilarating activities it seems the latter makes big bro look a bit of a Jesse. After all, in New Zealand, you can jump from it, swing from it, fly in it, get strapped to it and yes, even run naked through it (the Homer Tunnel annual naked run, if you're wondering). But, although little New Zealand is undoubtedly the master of all things 'Whoahhhh', Australia has its fair share too. If time is short, perhaps the best conglomerate can be accessed on the Gold Coast and at its six state-of-the-art theme parks that include Movie World, Sea World and Wet'n'Wild. And before you groan at the very thought of dodgems and Donald Duck, think again. Times have certainly changed and now you can join in sub-aqua shark feeding; try a rapid 4.5G vertical launch on the 60m 'Batwing'; go 0-100km in two seconds on the 'Superman Escape', or do the 'Kamikaze' and plunge 11m in something akin to a blow-up banana. Splashtacular!\u2022\u00a0The theme parks are all operated under the auspices of My Fun Australia and cost about \u00a334/\u00a322 for entry, with cheaper multi-park passes available; myfun.com.au.\u2022 Darroch Donald produces Australasian travel-related iPhone Apps with Sutro Media, sutromedia.comThe Gold Coast (goldcoast.com.au) has everything: great weather, the best beaches in the world, and challenging mountain biking. France is famous for its fields of sunflowers, but you'll be blown away when you ride through the golden cane fields around Murwillumbah. You'll see some spectacular panoramic views of the coast on rides into the Gold Coast mountains of Binna Burra and Springbrook. One of my favourite rides is down in the Tallebudgera Valley. It's a quiet road with the very best of the Gold Coast: cane fields, rainforests, local farmers and the occasional kangaroo. Cyclists in Australia always schedule a coffee break. One of my top coffee stops is on the ride to Uki. After riding through the quiet roads in the cradle of Mount Warning, an ancient volcano, you come to the quaint Uki Caf\u00e9 (ukicafe.com.au). They have some great coffee and even better cakes, to fuel you up for the ride home. Another great coffee stop is Piccolo Espresso Cafe in Miami. During the Australian summer there's always a chance you'll bump into Tour De France legend Robbie McEwen, one of the owners.Ashley Pettit, cycling guide for Gold Coast Cycling Tours (goldcoastcyclingtours.com.au)Compiled by Rachel Dixon", "tags": ["Australasia holidays", "The Ashes", "Brisbane holidays", "Sydney holidays", "Melbourne holidays", "Perth holidays", "Cultural trips", "Food and drink", "Adventure travel", "Surfing holidays", "Bars and clubs", "Shopping trips", "Travel", "Ashes 2010-11"], "title": "Insiders' guide to Australia"},{"date": "2010-11-16T14:00:45Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In the night, there had been yowls, growls and screams, so I expected that, in the morning, I would find some good film of our nocturnal visitors.The Tasmanian devil monitoring team had come to our house in north-west Tasmania, and had left me with an infra-red camera. We had skewered a fresh, large bone into the earth, a couple of metres from the camera. Each morning, I collected the camera's card and on my computer viewed some of the noisy characters who had tackled the bone.There were all sizes of devils, from a big male to youngsters born this year, and females, one appearing with her pouch so large it dragged on the ground, and on a later visit, the pouch was empty. Each devil has an individual pattern of white patches in the black fur, so, when viewed from all angles, it is possible to identify individuals.The monitoring team had caught many of these animals over the previous three nights, and had weighed, microchipped, sexed, estimated ages from their teeth and, crucially, had looked for signs of the Devil Facial Tumour Disease (DFTD).First described in the far north-east in 1996, it is so virulent that more than 90% of the devil population has been lost in the affected areas. However, the spread of the disease has slowed, leaving the south-west and the north-west disease-free so far.DFTD is a highly infectious cancer, that is transmitted through biting, which occurs in fighting, mating and play. Tumours grow rapidly around the face and jaws, which become ulcerated, bleeding and so large that they prevent feeding, so the animal starves to death. It is a terrible sight to see an affected mother, still feeding her pups in her pouch.The Tasmanian devil, (Sarcophilus harrisii) does not deserve its ferocious reputation. Since the extinction of the Tasmanian Thylacine, it is the last large carnivorous marsupial in the world. It mainly eats carrion, but is threatened by loss of habitat, by land-clearance, by death on the roads and now DFTD.The Save the Tasmanian Devil Programme, co-ordinated through the University of Tasmania, includes laboratory research, isolation of quarantined devils in sanctuaries and zoos, monitoring teams and public education.If all this fails, the Tasmanian devil goes the way of the Thylacine, and we are all impoverished.", "tags": ["Endangered species", "Australia news", "Australia holidays", "Wildlife holidays", "Asia Pacific", "Tasmania"], "title": "Australia: Sympathy for the devil"},{"date": "2010-10-03T23:05:03Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Action: Protect catchments and restore natural water flows in freshwater systems, particularly the Murray-Darling BasinDescription: The rivers in the Murray-Darling Basin in south-east Australia are currently flowing at only 40 per cent of their natural capacity, even in an average non-drought year, due to extensive water extraction for agriculture. Wetland sites should be protected under the international Ramsar Convention, but in practice Australian wetland and river biodiversity is threatened by proposed dams, such as the Tillegra Dam in New South Wales and Meander Dam in Tasmania. Another threat comes from alien fish species such as carp, trout and tilapia. Scientists would like to see much less water diverted for irrigation, the construction of new dams halted and better control of alien species. Farmers should also be incentivised to plant less water-intensive crops than cotton and rice, and improve river banks by planting shrubs and trees.Evidence: Farmers need to be encouraged with incentives to plant crops that are suitable for their environment according to Adamson (2009) \u2013 as explained in this a video clip. This will reduce the need for irrigation on crops such as cotton and rice in dry areas. Dams cause major habitat loss for freshwater and riverside species, and also create barriers for migratory fish species (also a result of ineffective fishways) and facilitate exotic species introductions. Dams cause major habitat loss for freshwater and riparian species, flooding habitat and foraging grounds for some, but also taking away breeding and hatching grounds downstream, as well as reducing important triggers for events like spawning. They also facilitate exotic species introductions.Action: Restrict the sale of invasive plantsDescription: Scientists in Australia are calling for an immediate ban on the sale of all plants listed as invasive species. Australian plant species and even entire ecosystems will benefit. The weed lantana, for example, has degraded more than four million hectares of Australian rangelands. To make such a ban a success will require effective monitoring with penalties for non-compliance; developing best-practice guidelines for commercial gardening enterprises; the removal of invasive species in public green spaces; and education and encouragement for the public to replace lawns with regionally-appropriate grasses.Evidence: More than 60 species of high conservation value plants are threatened nationwide because of competition with weeds. Weeds have a huge impact on Australian biodiversity and are estimated to cost AU$4bn annually to the Australian economy. A report for the WWF lists more than 90 species that currently pose a significant threat to biodiversity in Australia yet are commonly available in nurseries. It also highlights native and non-invasive species that could serve as alternatives.Action: Restrict the sale of invasive ornamental fishDescription: The ornamental fish trade in Australia is worth US $350m per year, however many of these fish species escape and establish in natural water systems, causing native fish and amphibian populations to decline. Currently, about 210 exotic species can be imported into Australia without an import permit. To prevent further introductions of non-native ornamental fish, their sale must be more tightly regulated and their import, sale and ownership should be controlled through a permit system even if they are not yet declared as invasive. There should be effective enforcement of sanctions for individuals and businesses who breach these permits. Also, the import of coral for aquariums should be subject to Australian quarantine restrictions to prevent release of marine organisms.Evidence: \"Of the 34 alien fish species with established feral populations in Australian waters, 22 are thought to have come into the country via the ornamental fish trade,\" writes Mark Lintermans. These alien fish have caused massive population declines in native fish and amphibian species, and competition for food or predation may lead to the eventual displacement of these species.Quarantine of live rock imports is necessary because marine organisms, such as jellyfish polyps, which exist on the surface of coral rock, pose a potential threat to the marine environment if released.Action: Stop killing dingoesDescription: The dingo is a declared pest in most states of Australia, and livestock farmers are obliged to cull them. This is despite their protected \"native\" status, \"threatened\" status in the state of Victoria and IUCN Red List designation as vulnerable to extinction. The dingo competes with invasive species such as cats and foxes, which prey on endemic reptiles and birds. Because it helps to reduce the abundance of cats and foxes, removing it has a detrimental knock-on effect for native species.Evidence: There is accumulating evidence that culling dingoes has contributed to the mammal extinction crisis in Australia, including studies led by Johnson (2007), Johnson and VanDerWal (2009), Wallach (2009) and Wallach (2010). Wallach (2009) also observed that baiting and shooting dingoes makes them prone to attacking lambs and crucially, that reintroducing them helps prey diversity. Maintaining a healthy dingo population is the only cost-effective way to reduce the numbers of invasive cats and foxes, which are destroying much of the native fauna. Sheep and cattle farmers may oppose to this action, but one solution is to increase the use of 'guardian' sheep dogs to keep dingoes away from vulnerable animals.", "tags": ["Biodiversity", "Conservation", "Wildlife", "Endangered species", "Endangered habitats", "Environment", "Animals", "World news", "Science", "Plants", "Zoology", "Nagoya biodiversity summit 2010"], "title": "Biodiversity 100: actions for Australia"},{"date": "2010-11-27T00:06:07Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Art fans curious about Chinese contemporary art should go to White Rabbit Gallery in Chippendale (whiterabbitcollection.org), a four-storey private collection that's free to visit. The Art Gallery NSW (artgallery.nsw.gov.au) now also has a superb Asian wing, with a new permanent indigenous collection.The Sydney Theatre Company (sydneytheatre.com.au) has gone from strength to strength under artistic directors Cate Blanchett and Andrew Upton. The theatre precinct in Walsh Bay now has great bars and restaurants, so you can dine well before a show and enjoy harbour views while you do so.Darling Harbour is always evolving and Surry Hills/Darlinghurst is now bar and restaurant central. Kings Cross has been gentrified, although it still has its sleazy side (the old neon strip club signs are heritage-protected!). Bennelong Point, ugly until a decade ago, has an Italian-style colonnade in the walk up to the Opera House. A drink at Opera Bar (operabar.com.au) opposite the Harbour Bridge as the sun sets is an essential experience.Nick Dent, editor of Time Out Sydney (timeoutsydney.com.au), which is now a magazine, website and iPhone app For three weeks each January, the Sydney Festival (sydneyfestival.org.au, 8-30 January) has a programme of 500-plus artists from Australia and elsewhere, and three years ago introduced a new opening event, Festival First Night, when 300,000 people take to city streets transformed into free stages and precincts.The Finders Keepers (thefinders keepers.com) holds a twice-yearly indie craft event in Sydney and Brisbane, featuring emerging designers and their cool and affordable wares, plus live music, cafe and bar.If you're into fresh produce and meeting growers and producers, Eveleigh Farmer's Market (eveleighmarket.com.au) will appeal. The heritage-listed market is home to more than 80 farmers and artisan food producers every Saturday morning.Sydneysiders love their caffeine, and Campos Specialty Coffee (camposcoffee.com) has just opened its first Cupping Room \u2013 offering a complete theatrical, sensory experience of the humble coffee bean \u2013 in Newtown.Adriano Zumbo (adrianozumbo.com), a contemporary French-inspired patisserie in Balmain, showcases some of the most desirable, inventive cakes this side of the equator (think beetroot and raspberry macaroons).Carrie Choo, founder of Daily Addict (dailyaddict.com.au), a lifestyle guide to Sydney and Melbourne Guardian tip Budget travellers can stay in the new Sydney Harbour youth hostel (yha.com.au), with views of the Opera House and the bridge, from \u00a324 a night in a six-bed dormTony Wheeler of Lonely Planet fame is one of many sponsors of The Wheeler Centre (wheelercentre.com), a new cultural hub on Little Lonsdale Street encouraging all things literary, including Lunchbox/Soapbox, an old-fashioned Speakers' Corner. Bring your lunch and listen to writers sounding off.The Australian Centre for the Moving Image (acmi.net.au) in Federation Square is worth a visit for its alternative cinema options. Or there's Underground Cinema (undergroundcinema.com.au), monthly cinema experiences that take place in changing secret locations depending on the mystery film shown.Shop on Gertrude Street for all things quirky and unique. My hit list includes fashion boutique Left (leftmelbourne.blogspot.com), Amor y Locura (amorylocura.com) for antiques and pre-loved treasures, Industria X (industriax.com.au) for ex-industrial furniture and vintage wares, Aesop for beautiful plant-based skincare, Spacecraft (spacecraftaustralia.com) for its vibrant printed homewares and Books for Cooks.Der Raum (derraum.com.au) has an array of food and drink awards and serves daily hand-pressed juices, old-world elixirs, super-premium spirits and sports one very fine cocktail ice machine (they boast it's the finest in the world). It's a must-visit establishment for cocktail novices and connoisseurs both. Cumulus Inc (cumulusinc.com.au) is a foodie favourite for breakfast, but it is humming at any time of day, churning out Andrew McConnell's well-thought-out informal dishes, ideal for sharing.Carrie Choo (as before)Guardian tip Art Aficionado (artaficionadotours.com) is a new walking tour operation. The three-hour Inside The Labyrinth tour visits six contemporary art galleries in the city, plus sites of cultural interest. Tours cost \u00a337pp and start at 2pm on Fridays Perth's bar scene has taken off in the past year or so. You'll find plenty of desirable bars in the city centre and Northbridge. Of the central offerings, Helvetica (helveticabar.com), specialising in whiskey, and Andaluz (andaluzbar.com.au), offering modern tapas and a killer wine list, are personal favourites. The crowds are mixed, the settings are in that exposed brick/Chesterfield-lounge-stolen-from-rich-grandma's-house style.The suburb of Northbridge boasts Ezra Pound (189 William St), a hidden speakeasy-style joint where cocktails are served in old jam jars. On the same street is The Bird (williamstreetbird.com), which has live gigs and fun nights (hip-hop karaoke, anyone?), and 399 (399bar.com), which isn't as vocal in terms of hipster-chic but has some of the best bartenders and spirits in the state. It's worth noting that these small bars are legally allowed a maximum of 120 people, so try to make it there before 8.30pm or you'll be in for a wait. If waiting and small spaces aren't your speed, visit Little Creatures (littlecreatures.com.au), a Fremantle-born brewery and pub right on the harbour which is a must-visit for beer (or Perth) lovers.Rachael Ciccarelli (twitter.com/rachthething), freelance journalist with the West Australian newspaperIf you're in Perth, you must have dinner at dusk at the Indiana (indiana.com.au) on Cottesloe beach. The balcony and dining room are the perfect spots to sample fresh Western Australia produce while watching the surf and an amazing sunset. A few metres down the road is the OBH (Ocean Beach Hotel if you're new in town, obh.com.au). It also overlooks the sea and has a restaurant but most come here for a liquid lunch, particularly on a Sunday. Sunday sessions are a Perth tradition, something to do with sunny afternoons, closed shops and any number of top breweries in the city. Shane Osborn, head chef and co-owner of London's Pied \u00e0 Terre (pied-a-terre.co.uk)Guardian tip When you fly to Perth (and Brisbane, Melbourne or Sydney) with Emirates, the Visit Australia Pass gives you discounted rates on internal flights. See emirates.com for detailsBrisbane is without doubt the new kid on the cultural block. The South Bank is the cultural precinct and has recently undergone a dramatic makeover including a new Gallery of Modern Art (qag.qld.gov.au), a refurbished Queensland Performing Arts Centre (qpac.com.au), and the redevelopment of the State Library (slq.qld.gov.au) by Donovan Hill. The precinct is linked to the city centre by Cox Rayner's spidery Kurilpa Bridge, which opened last year and has already become a city landmark.To the east of the city centre is New Farm, with its vibrant restaurant scene, and the Brisbane Powerhouse (brisbanepowerhouse.org), converted from a 1920s turbine hall into alternative performance spaces.If you have more time, take a day trip to Stradbroke Island, a design mecca and home to a plethora of dwellings designed by some of Queensland's hottest architects.Michael Rayner, architect, Cox Rayner (coxarchitecture.com.au)Guardian tip Tourism Australia's free Go Ashes iPhone app (go to australia.com/ashes to download) features in-depth city guides to all the Ashes cities, plus all the latest cricket news, of course The Reading Room (thereadingroom-renewadelaide.blogspot.com) is a good starting point for Adelaide culture: it's a library-cum-lounge with gallery and cinema. Magazine Gallery on Clubhouse Lane is a cool little artspace that's only been open for a few months.Format (format.net.au) is a multi-purpose creative hub in Adelaide, runing exhibitions and gigs, plus arts and community events. A two-week festival in February/March, includes visual art, literature workshops and urban art. You might also want to look at the Five Thousand website (fivethousand.com.au), a sort of What's On in Adelaide for local hipsters.Ianto Ware, creative director, FormatMy favourite restaurants include Mesa Lunga (mesalunga.com) for tapas, the Oyster Bar at Glenelg (oysterbar.com.au) and the Lion Hotel (thelionhotel.com). Waymouth Street is the place for drinks \u2013 try Gallery (galleryonwaymouth.com.au) or Georges (georgesonwaymouth.com.au). Brooke Liebelt, marketing executive and Adelaide localGuardian tip Qantas Holidays (020-8222 9124, qantasholidays.co.uk) is offering two free nights on a five-night stay at Adelaide's Rockford Hotel, from \u00a3232pp for the whole stay. From Adelaide, a one-day trip to Kangaroo Island with Kangaroo Island Wilderness Tours (wildernesstours.com.au), including 4WD touring and lunch, costs \u00a3243ppMy favourite wine destination in Australia is the Giant Steps winery (giant-steps.com.au) in the Yarra Valley. In many ways it encapsulates the new Australia. First, it's not in some bucolic vineyard setting but on the (slightly less than bustling) main drag of Healesville in the heart of the Yarra. It is modern, strong, confident and bloody brilliant. There's a wood fire for real pizza, an in-house baker, a cheese room, a football table, unusually cool people behind the bar (wine regions don't normally do cool), and all-pervasive spirit and passion.And then there is the wine. Almost exclusively single-vineyard, brilliantly made, focused and stylish, chardonnays and pinot noirs really \u2013 and I mean really \u2013 make a statement here. It's the brainchild of a bloke called Phil Sexton. He flies small planes, builds great businesses, makes great wines, has beautiful children and stays fit in his 50s. I hate him. And his winery.Stuart Gregor, retired wine author who now runs PR company Liquid Ideas (liquidideas.com.au) and has a small winery in the Yarra ValleyHamilton Island (hamiltonisland.com.au), the largest inhabited island of the Whitsunday off Queensland, offers a number of unique experiences. Glenn Bourke, the island's chief executive, recommends a stay on Australia's only permanent-structure marine accommodation.Fantasea Adventure Cruising, an eco-certified operator, offers a Reefsleep Experience package with nights either side on Hamilton Island (fantasea.com.au, from \u00a3285pp). \"Spending the night on a floating pontoon, 40 miles offshore on the Great Barrier Reef with only tropical marine life for company, is both magical and unforgettable,\" he says.Chef Jane-Therese Mulry (of the Qualia luxury resort) sings the praises of the local food scene: \"Hamilton Island's Great Barrier Feast series (hamiltonisland.com.au/feast) is a celebration of Australia's culinary soul. After being Marco Pierre White's first female head chef in London, I developed a passion for using only the freshest ingredients \u2013 and it doesn't get better than North Queensland produce.\"The arts scene is on the up too, says David McAllister, artistic director of the Australian Ballet. \"The Australian Ballet's third annual performance on Hamilton Island in July 2011 (hamiltonisland.com.au/australian-ballet) has become an important event on the calendar for us. It provides patrons with exclusive behind-the-scenes access to the Australian Ballet in one of Australia's most beautiful locations, culminating in a magical sunset performance with the Whitsundays as a backdrop.\"Tarkine Forest Adventures (adventure forests.com.au/tarkine) is found at Dismal Swamp near Togari in north-west Tasmania. Dismal Swamp is a natural blackwood forest sinkhole, believed to be the only remaining one of its kind in the world. The floor of the sinkhole is 40m deep, and can be reached by a walking track \u2013 or much more quickly by taking the 110m slide from the viewing platform. Two trips down the slide are included in the admission price (\u00a312 per adult).In December 2007, cruise operator Robert Pennicott expanded operations in southern Tasmania with the launch of Tasman Island Cruises (tasmancruises.com.au). The coastline here is spectacular, and there is a great variety of marine wildlife and seabirds to be seen, from seals, whales, sharks and dolphins to albatrosses, eagles and falcons. Full-day tours include an eco-cruise and an optional visit to the Port Arthur historic convict site, the Tasmanian Devil Conservation Park or the Federation Chocolate factory and museum (from \u00a3100pp; cheaper three-hour tours are also available).Donna and Tony Gibbons, local experts on Tasmania for MyDestinationInfo.com (mydestinationinfo.com)Guardian tip There's a buzz about the opening of Mona (Museum of Old and New Art, mona.net.au) near Hobart in January. Stay in one of the Mona pavilions, featuring artwork from the collection, for \u00a3306 a night including breakfast, through Bridge & Wickers (bridgeandwickers.co.uk)Ningaloo Reef is the largest fringing coral reef in the country. Temperate and tropical currents meet in Ningaloo, resulting in highly diverse marine life, including spectacular coral reefs and abundant fish, turtles, whale sharks, dugongs, whales and dolphins. The reef is home to more than 500 species of fish, 600 species of mollusc and 200 species of coral alone. It also has diverse marine communities, including mangroves, algae and filter-feeding. The close proximity of the reef to the shore (it is the only large reef located very close to a land mass) means visitors can enjoy a wide variety of activities without the need for lengthy boat trips.Seasonal aggregations of whale sharks, manta rays, sea turtles and whales, as well as the annual mass coral spawning, provide unique opportunities for visitors to observe marine fauna and key biological processes. Some of the best places to snorkel are at tourist hot spots such as Turquoise Bay, Oyster Stacks and Coral Bay, but there are other places (many better than those just listed) \u2013 they simply require the visitor to do some exploring. Alternatively, jump on a licensed charter boat for a trip out to some incredible places that only local operators know about.One thing visitors to the area always comment on is that nowhere else in Australia do they see such an abundant display of \"iconic\" Australian land animals, such as emus, kangaroos, wallabies and echidnas, together in one place. In the town of Exmouth, emus wander the streets \u2013 a sight that is quite amazing even for locals who have been living here for years.\u2022 Responsible Travel (responsibletravel.com) has a nine-day Ningaloo Reef sailing holiday on a luxury catamaran from \u00a32,531, excluding flightsRay De Jong, ranger, Cape Range national parkSwimming with lightning-fast bluefin tuna near the coastal town of Port Lincoln on the Eyre peninsula in South Australia is an unforgettable experience. Other exceptional aquatic experiences include snorkelling with sea lions, whale watching, diving with cuttlefish and cage shark diving. The Eyre peninsula is known as \"nature's playground\" \u2013 getting up close and personal with wildlife is the norm.Matt Waller, a fourth-generation fisherman and skipper at Adventure Bay Charters (adventurebaycharters.com.au)British tourists tend to focus on Australia's coastal cities, but there are some magnificent towns inland. Kyneton in Victoria is a particularly beautiful town that's only two hours' drive from Melbourne. It has a lazy, old world charm: original settlers' houses, a hotel straight out of the wild west, the courthouse where they tried Ned Kelly.My favourite national park is Mungo in New South Wales, which is home to the oldest human remains outside of East Africa. The landscape is staggering, changing suddenly from rolling green land to sand dunes to rock. In the middle of Australia, Cameron's Corner is quite a sight. It's where the states of Queensland, South Australia and New South Wales meet and the Dingo Fence \u2013 the longest fence in the world \u2013 passes through. I've cycled around there with four or five dingos running alongside me.Cairns, in Queensland, is a great party city, with fantastic bars and restaurants and good diving. But go inland and you'll pass through rainforest and come to Atherton. It's a town surrounded by bright green farmland, where an amazing array of fruit and vegetables is grown, including pineapples and guava. You'll also find local cheese and chocolate, so it's a good place to relax at the end of an active holiday.\u2022 Sign up to cycle in a group from Melbourne to Cairns in May next year (Route A is 3,200km, Route B is 2,094km) at transozbikeride.com.Mike Laird, explorer who cycled solo across the outback this year.   Guardian tip If cycling across Australia sounds too much like hard work, Austravel (0800 988 4834, austravel.com) has a new itinerary, Down the Middle: Darwin to Adelaide, allowing you to cross the country in more comfort. Marking the 150th anniversary of John Mcdouall Stuart's crossing, the trip includes flights, seven nights hotel accommodation (in Darwin, Alice Springs and Adelaide), a camping safari and train travel on the Ghan. The 12-night trip costs \u00a32,889pp, departing on selected dates in May 2011The Silky Oaks Lodge (+61 7 4098 1666, silkyoakslodge.com.au) in the Daintree, in tropical north Queensland, is a polished eco-lodge in one of the world's oldest rainforests. This year it launched a zero carbon offset plan. The rooms (from \u00a3200 per night) come with a private hammock and garden, oversized spa tubs and river views. The restaurant is built on hardwood stilts to see canopy life, and offers a reef and rainforest menu. The spa incorporates organic Australian treatments. Guides share aromatic jungle fruits while demonstrating forest diversity, including the cassowary, a large blue-headed relative of an emu.Hannah Robinson, author of Australia: An Ecotraveller's GuideToday there are some wonderful Aboriginal art galleries to visit in and around Perth, such as the Aboriginal Art Gallery in Kings Park (aboriginalgallery.com.au), Creative Native in the city (creativenative.com.au), Maalinup Aboriginal Art Gallery in the Swan Valley (maalinup.com.au) and True Blue Gallery in Fremantle (truebluegallery.com). Western Australia is also home to some of the most talented indigenous dance groups in the country.These day, many tour operators are trying to educate visitors about the oldest living culture on the planet while developing indigenous employment opportunities. Indigenous tourism is a challenge, but I believe it is a solid step towards reconciliation with the wider community. Good operators include Wula Guda Nyinda - Aboriginal Cultural Tours run by Darren Capewell out of Shark Bay (wulaguda.com.au), Kepa Kurl in Esperance (kepakurl.com.au), and Darngku Heritage Cruises in the Geikie Gorge national park, West Kimberley (darngku.com.au).Greg Nannup, executive director, Indigenous Tours WA (indigenouswa.com), which runs a tour in Kings Park, PerthIn Sydney, the inner east continues to dominate with new arrivals. The coolest and most happening places are following the current Parisienne trend of small, more modest owner-operated places (no big banker boys as backers) that offer great value, innovative food and wine, a relaxed ambience and a terrific design aesthetic. Duke Bistro and Porteno (porteno.com.au) tick all the boxes. Melbourne CBD is jam-packed with dynamic small bars and restaurants. My current favourites are Cutler + Co (the bar snacks are the best in Australia; cutlerandco.com.au), Movida Aqui (movida.com.au) and Den Izakaya (sensational sake list and uber-cool; izakayaden.com.au). Attica (attica.com.au) offers some of the more inventive menus in Australia.Foraging has sparked a lot of interest and chefs are increasingly out there looking for wild produce. Ethical food and sustainability will continue to make a big impact in the market. Pop-up restaurants/guerilla dining should make a greater impact and should be fully supported and encouraged. It's a brilliant initiative that has been around in other countries for a while - such as Hong Kong's private kitchens - and can provide a wonderful showcase for creative talent without enormous overheads or burdening bureaucracy.\u2022 Christine Manfield, the owner of Universal restaurant in Sydney; universalrestaurant.comSome of the best surfing spots in Australia are in the Margaret River region, Western Australia (margaretriver.com). The Margaret River Main Break is the most consistent wave. It's very powerful \u2013 it breaks from 2ft to 20ft \u2013 and is where all the locals surf every day. Intermediate surfers can also try Left Handers, or Lefties. This is a very nice wave that breaks on small to medium swell, but can get very crowded. North Point is one of the best right-hander reef breaks WA has to offer. It's a long barrelling wave that people travel from all over the world to surf when the swell is up. The Box is a very heavy right hander that breaks over a very shallow reef. You can expect to end up in hospital if you don't approach this wave with caution \u2013 so experienced surfers only. Cow Bombie is a wave that breaks about 2km out to sea. You need a jet ski to ride it as it only starts to break at around 15ft but handles up to 40ft. You have to be a bit crazy to have a go out there ... This wave is deadly and should only be attacked by very experienced surfers.\u2022 Intrepid Travel's Western Wildlife Experience is a 10-day road trip from Adelaide to Perth, including a surfing lesson and a day in Margaret river. Prices start at \u00a3850 excluding flights, with camping, hostel and farm accommodation. intrepidtravel.com.Josh Palmateer, surfing instructor and former champion (mrsurf.com.au)There is no doubt Australia enjoys playing big brother to little brother New Zealand, but when it comes to unique and exhilarating activities it seems the latter makes big bro look a bit of a Jesse. After all, in New Zealand, you can jump from it, swing from it, fly in it, get strapped to it and yes, even run naked through it (the Homer Tunnel annual naked run, if you're wondering). But, although little New Zealand is undoubtedly the master of all things 'Whoahhhh', Australia has its fair share too. If time is short, perhaps the best conglomerate can be accessed on the Gold Coast and at its six state-of-the-art theme parks that include Movie World, Sea World and Wet'n'Wild. And before you groan at the very thought of dodgems and Donald Duck, think again. Times have certainly changed and now you can join in sub-aqua shark feeding; try a rapid 4.5G vertical launch on the 60m 'Batwing'; go 0-100km in two seconds on the 'Superman Escape', or do the 'Kamikaze' and plunge 11m in something akin to a blow-up banana. Splashtacular!\u2022\u00a0The theme parks are all operated under the auspices of My Fun Australia and cost about \u00a334/\u00a322 for entry, with cheaper multi-park passes available; myfun.com.au.\u2022 Darroch Donald produces Australasian travel-related iPhone Apps with Sutro Media, sutromedia.comThe Gold Coast (goldcoast.com.au) has everything: great weather, the best beaches in the world, and challenging mountain biking. France is famous for its fields of sunflowers, but you'll be blown away when you ride through the golden cane fields around Murwillumbah. You'll see some spectacular panoramic views of the coast on rides into the Gold Coast mountains of Binna Burra and Springbrook. One of my favourite rides is down in the Tallebudgera Valley. It's a quiet road with the very best of the Gold Coast: cane fields, rainforests, local farmers and the occasional kangaroo. Cyclists in Australia always schedule a coffee break. One of my top coffee stops is on the ride to Uki. After riding through the quiet roads in the cradle of Mount Warning, an ancient volcano, you come to the quaint Uki Caf\u00e9 (ukicafe.com.au). They have some great coffee and even better cakes, to fuel you up for the ride home. Another great coffee stop is Piccolo Espresso Cafe in Miami. During the Australian summer there's always a chance you'll bump into Tour De France legend Robbie McEwen, one of the owners.Ashley Pettit, cycling guide for Gold Coast Cycling Tours (goldcoastcyclingtours.com.au)Compiled by Rachel Dixon", "tags": ["Australasia holidays", "The Ashes", "Brisbane holidays", "Sydney holidays", "Melbourne holidays", "Perth holidays", "Cultural trips", "Food and drink", "Adventure travel", "Surfing holidays", "Bars and clubs", "Shopping trips", "Travel", "Ashes 2010-11"], "title": "Insiders' guide to Australia"},{"date": "2010-11-16T14:00:45Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In the night, there had been yowls, growls and screams, so I expected that, in the morning, I would find some good film of our nocturnal visitors.The Tasmanian devil monitoring team had come to our house in north-west Tasmania, and had left me with an infra-red camera. We had skewered a fresh, large bone into the earth, a couple of metres from the camera. Each morning, I collected the camera's card and on my computer viewed some of the noisy characters who had tackled the bone.There were all sizes of devils, from a big male to youngsters born this year, and females, one appearing with her pouch so large it dragged on the ground, and on a later visit, the pouch was empty. Each devil has an individual pattern of white patches in the black fur, so, when viewed from all angles, it is possible to identify individuals.The monitoring team had caught many of these animals over the previous three nights, and had weighed, microchipped, sexed, estimated ages from their teeth and, crucially, had looked for signs of the Devil Facial Tumour Disease (DFTD).First described in the far north-east in 1996, it is so virulent that more than 90% of the devil population has been lost in the affected areas. However, the spread of the disease has slowed, leaving the south-west and the north-west disease-free so far.DFTD is a highly infectious cancer, that is transmitted through biting, which occurs in fighting, mating and play. Tumours grow rapidly around the face and jaws, which become ulcerated, bleeding and so large that they prevent feeding, so the animal starves to death. It is a terrible sight to see an affected mother, still feeding her pups in her pouch.The Tasmanian devil, (Sarcophilus harrisii) does not deserve its ferocious reputation. Since the extinction of the Tasmanian Thylacine, it is the last large carnivorous marsupial in the world. It mainly eats carrion, but is threatened by loss of habitat, by land-clearance, by death on the roads and now DFTD.The Save the Tasmanian Devil Programme, co-ordinated through the University of Tasmania, includes laboratory research, isolation of quarantined devils in sanctuaries and zoos, monitoring teams and public education.If all this fails, the Tasmanian devil goes the way of the Thylacine, and we are all impoverished.", "tags": ["Endangered species", "Australia news", "Australia holidays", "Wildlife holidays", "Asia Pacific", "Tasmania"], "title": "Australia: Sympathy for the devil"},{"date": "2010-10-03T23:05:03Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Action: Protect catchments and restore natural water flows in freshwater systems, particularly the Murray-Darling BasinDescription: The rivers in the Murray-Darling Basin in south-east Australia are currently flowing at only 40 per cent of their natural capacity, even in an average non-drought year, due to extensive water extraction for agriculture. Wetland sites should be protected under the international Ramsar Convention, but in practice Australian wetland and river biodiversity is threatened by proposed dams, such as the Tillegra Dam in New South Wales and Meander Dam in Tasmania. Another threat comes from alien fish species such as carp, trout and tilapia. Scientists would like to see much less water diverted for irrigation, the construction of new dams halted and better control of alien species. Farmers should also be incentivised to plant less water-intensive crops than cotton and rice, and improve river banks by planting shrubs and trees.Evidence: Farmers need to be encouraged with incentives to plant crops that are suitable for their environment according to Adamson (2009) \u2013 as explained in this a video clip. This will reduce the need for irrigation on crops such as cotton and rice in dry areas. Dams cause major habitat loss for freshwater and riverside species, and also create barriers for migratory fish species (also a result of ineffective fishways) and facilitate exotic species introductions. Dams cause major habitat loss for freshwater and riparian species, flooding habitat and foraging grounds for some, but also taking away breeding and hatching grounds downstream, as well as reducing important triggers for events like spawning. They also facilitate exotic species introductions.Action: Restrict the sale of invasive plantsDescription: Scientists in Australia are calling for an immediate ban on the sale of all plants listed as invasive species. Australian plant species and even entire ecosystems will benefit. The weed lantana, for example, has degraded more than four million hectares of Australian rangelands. To make such a ban a success will require effective monitoring with penalties for non-compliance; developing best-practice guidelines for commercial gardening enterprises; the removal of invasive species in public green spaces; and education and encouragement for the public to replace lawns with regionally-appropriate grasses.Evidence: More than 60 species of high conservation value plants are threatened nationwide because of competition with weeds. Weeds have a huge impact on Australian biodiversity and are estimated to cost AU$4bn annually to the Australian economy. A report for the WWF lists more than 90 species that currently pose a significant threat to biodiversity in Australia yet are commonly available in nurseries. It also highlights native and non-invasive species that could serve as alternatives.Action: Restrict the sale of invasive ornamental fishDescription: The ornamental fish trade in Australia is worth US $350m per year, however many of these fish species escape and establish in natural water systems, causing native fish and amphibian populations to decline. Currently, about 210 exotic species can be imported into Australia without an import permit. To prevent further introductions of non-native ornamental fish, their sale must be more tightly regulated and their import, sale and ownership should be controlled through a permit system even if they are not yet declared as invasive. There should be effective enforcement of sanctions for individuals and businesses who breach these permits. Also, the import of coral for aquariums should be subject to Australian quarantine restrictions to prevent release of marine organisms.Evidence: \"Of the 34 alien fish species with established feral populations in Australian waters, 22 are thought to have come into the country via the ornamental fish trade,\" writes Mark Lintermans. These alien fish have caused massive population declines in native fish and amphibian species, and competition for food or predation may lead to the eventual displacement of these species.Quarantine of live rock imports is necessary because marine organisms, such as jellyfish polyps, which exist on the surface of coral rock, pose a potential threat to the marine environment if released.Action: Stop killing dingoesDescription: The dingo is a declared pest in most states of Australia, and livestock farmers are obliged to cull them. This is despite their protected \"native\" status, \"threatened\" status in the state of Victoria and IUCN Red List designation as vulnerable to extinction. The dingo competes with invasive species such as cats and foxes, which prey on endemic reptiles and birds. Because it helps to reduce the abundance of cats and foxes, removing it has a detrimental knock-on effect for native species.Evidence: There is accumulating evidence that culling dingoes has contributed to the mammal extinction crisis in Australia, including studies led by Johnson (2007), Johnson and VanDerWal (2009), Wallach (2009) and Wallach (2010). Wallach (2009) also observed that baiting and shooting dingoes makes them prone to attacking lambs and crucially, that reintroducing them helps prey diversity. Maintaining a healthy dingo population is the only cost-effective way to reduce the numbers of invasive cats and foxes, which are destroying much of the native fauna. Sheep and cattle farmers may oppose to this action, but one solution is to increase the use of 'guardian' sheep dogs to keep dingoes away from vulnerable animals.", "tags": ["Biodiversity", "Conservation", "Wildlife", "Endangered species", "Endangered habitats", "Environment", "Animals", "World news", "Science", "Plants", "Zoology", "Nagoya biodiversity summit 2010"], "title": "Biodiversity 100: actions for Australia"},{"date": "2010-11-17T19:19:50Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Betfair, the recently floated online betting exchange, suffered its first setback as a public company today, when it lost the latest stage of an Australian legal case which could have increased revenues in the country by 10%.The long-running legal dispute has seen the British company challenge two Australian racing bodies over their decision to implement a 1.5% charge on bets taken on all New South Wales thoroughbred and harness races \u2013 a levy that costs Betfair Australia about \u00a32m a year.Today, a Sydney court again ruled for Racing New South Wales and Harness Racing New South Wales against the betting exchange, which now says it will \"review its options including a potential appeal to the high court of Australia\".Betting industry experts said the news undermines the theory that Betfair's business model is easily replicated in new markets. One said: \"Betfair only works when the company is taxed on gross profits rather than revenues and where there is a very sophisticated sports betting market. At the moment, that only applies to the UK and Ireland.\"The risks of the legal challenge were well flagged in Betfair's flotation prospectus, which noted: \"The annual turnover fee claimed by New South Wales racing bodies would be the equivalent of more than half of gross revenue generated from races held in New South Wales, which accounted for approximately one-fifth of Betfair Australia's gross revenue (2009-2010: \u00a319.6m; 2008-2009: \u00a316.9m).\"Betfair Australia \u2013 which is a 50-50 joint venture with James Packer's Crown empire \u2013 remains loss-making, but investors had been hoping the business could become profitable sooner than expected with a successful legal outcome.A note issued last week by brokers Panmure Gordon explored the growth potential of the overall group in which analyst Simon French wrote: \"At this stage, it is difficult to accurately predict the growth trajectory of either Betfair US or LMAX [the financial exchange]. However, we believe both have high growth potential and could potentially deliver significant value to Betfair shareholders over the medium term. In addition, we believe Betfair Australia could move into profitability in 2011 depending on the success of its legal challenge in New South Wales.\"A spokeswoman said Betfair was already paying the New South Wales charges and denied the decision demonstrated the difficulties it might face in expanding overseas. She added: \"This is a specific case in Australia. It is a long road in terms of a regulatory point of view for new markets and there will be bumps along that road.\"Last year, Betfair revenues grew by 13% to \u00a3340.9m, although stripping out foreign acquisitions and interest earned on client money, the growth figure drops to 5%, while pre-tax profits slumped by 63% to \u00a317.8m. The group is projected to make a pre-tax profit of about \u00a333m this year.Shares in the business, which floated at \u00a313 last month, lost 11p to close at \u00a314.48 today.", "tags": ["Betfair", "Business", "Gambling", "UK news"], "title": "Betfair loses legal case in Australia"},{"date": "2011-02-09T00:05:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Floods, fires and even earthquakes and volcanoes have become political events all over the world, polarising public opinion and sometimes contributing to the fall of governments. Now that the line between natural and man-made disasters has been blurred by a changed understanding of our impact on the planet, every disaster sets off a search for causes and culprits. This is made more contentious by arguments over the degree of human responsibility that have increased the tension between right and left in many countries. The inevitable result seems to be that political leaders are finding themselves more and more in the firing line when nature springs its nasty surprises.The war over the causes of climate change, in particular, has been waged nowhere more fiercely than in Australia, a country whose knife-edge ecology makes it especially vulnerable. Floods in Queensland, Victoria and New South Wales, Cyclone Yasi, and now a dismal coda with bushfires around Perth in Western Australia, have made disaster control and prevention the issues of the day in what is normally Australia's switched-off summer holiday period. Even so, it is surprising that support for the Australian government has tumbled so precipitately. If an election was held today, prime minister Julia Gillard and the Labor party would be swept from office, according to a poll published in the Australian.From afar the prime minister has looked to be making not too bad a fist of it. She organised federal resources reasonably effectively, and has come up with a reconstruction tax on wealthier households that has won the approval of the majority of Australians. But they seem to feel that she has not sufficiently felt their pain, though the tears this normally rather wooden politician choked back in the Australian parliament yesterday may shift that view. She has not mismanaged the disasters \u2013 far from it \u2013 but she has not emerged from them as an inspiring figure in the way that Rudolph Giuliani did from 9/11, or even Gordon Brown did, briefly, from a combination of bombs and floods at the beginning of his premiership.The broader context is of an Australian political class which has been timid in dealing with environmental matters. Lack of support in his own Liberal party for an emissions trading scheme brought down Malcolm Turnbull, while the former Labor leader Kevin Rudd lost his job to Ms Gillard for a similar reason. She has now taken up the cudgels for emissions trading in a determined way. But all the trimming and the U-turning has taken its toll. As Australians grasp how big the environmental challenge is, they may be indicating at some level that they want their politicians to be as big as the challenge.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Asia Pacific", "Australia weather"], "title": "Australia: Disaster zone | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-04-12T13:00:31Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Western Australia's anti corruption watchdog has launched an investigation to find out whether the Ielts test of English has been compromised at testing centres in the state following allegations that a staff member at Curtin University in Perth was bribed to falsify test results.Former Curtin staff member Keith Low last month admitted to the state's Corruption and Crime Commission that he was paid thousands of dollars to doctor English test results for up to 25 migrants applying for permanent residency.Ielts is the assessment of English language proficiency preferred by the Australian government for settlement and student visas. Last year immigration officials said they were considering accepting results from other tests and an announcement is expected soon.Curtin's vice-chancellor, Jeanette Hacket, said in a statement:\"This hearing has highlighted the risks inherent in this type of operation where Curtin staff are required to deliver an externally managed and controlled service. The service provided is not core to Curtin's operations and we are reviewing are continued involvement in offering this testing.\"Christchurch counts cost of February earthquake New Zealand's universities minister Steven Joyce said that Christchurch's $290m education export industry had nearly evaporated following the earthquake that struck the city on 22 February, but he said the sector would survive.Up to 180 are believed to havedied in the earthquake, including up to 80 students and staff at an English language school in the city centre.Joyce said that there had been 6,600 international higher-education students and 1,412 foreign school pupils enrolled with Christchurch providers at the time of the earthquake.According to institutions in the city, many foreign students returned home after the earthquake, but most have indicated they will return.About half of Christchurch's 120 private training establishments, many of which provide English language classes, were operating again last month, but Joyce said there was \"some risk\" that several may never reopen.US and Chile sign up for English assistanceThe US is set to send trainers to Chile develop the English language skills of school teachers under a renewed cooperation agreement endorsed by US President Barack Obama and his Chilean counterpart Sebastian Pinera, right, during a state visit to Chile in March.The letter of intent states that the US Bureau of Education and Cultural Affairs will develop teacher training capacity for pre- and in-service English language teachers and update the existing school curriculum.The US will also support development of bilingual education programmes in Chilean schools starting for students aged 10-11.South Africa data shows 'value' of English languageA study of South Africa's labour market which included a survey of 28,000 people across the country indicates that adults who reported good reading and writing abilities in English did much better in the job market than those who reported fair or lower English skills.One of the researchers, professor Dori Posel, said that rewards for English language skills in the labour market helped to explain why many schools chose English as the language of instruction from an early age, in the face of national policy to encourage mother-tongue learning.Posel told the Sunday Tribune newspaper that mother tongue instruction had become tainted by \"its association with the apartheid government policy of Bantu education, which made teaching in the mother tongue compulsory for the first eight years of school\".Max de Lotbini\u00e8remax.delotbiniere@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Tefl", "Higher education", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Corruption investigation shakes Ielts in Australia"},{"date": "2011-04-12T13:00:31Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Western Australia's anti corruption watchdog has launched an investigation to find out whether the Ielts test of English has been compromised at testing centres in the state following allegations that a staff member at Curtin University in Perth was bribed to falsify test results.Former Curtin staff member Keith Low last month admitted to the state's Corruption and Crime Commission that he was paid thousands of dollars to doctor English test results for up to 25 migrants applying for permanent residency.Ielts is the assessment of English language proficiency preferred by the Australian government for settlement and student visas. Last year immigration officials said they were considering accepting results from other tests and an announcement is expected soon.Curtin's vice-chancellor, Jeanette Hacket, said in a statement:\"This hearing has highlighted the risks inherent in this type of operation where Curtin staff are required to deliver an externally managed and controlled service. The service provided is not core to Curtin's operations and we are reviewing are continued involvement in offering this testing.\"Christchurch counts cost of February earthquake New Zealand's universities minister Steven Joyce said that Christchurch's $290m education export industry had nearly evaporated following the earthquake that struck the city on 22 February, but he said the sector would survive.Up to 180 are believed to havedied in the earthquake, including up to 80 students and staff at an English language school in the city centre.Joyce said that there had been 6,600 international higher-education students and 1,412 foreign school pupils enrolled with Christchurch providers at the time of the earthquake.According to institutions in the city, many foreign students returned home after the earthquake, but most have indicated they will return.About half of Christchurch's 120 private training establishments, many of which provide English language classes, were operating again last month, but Joyce said there was \"some risk\" that several may never reopen.US and Chile sign up for English assistanceThe US is set to send trainers to Chile develop the English language skills of school teachers under a renewed cooperation agreement endorsed by US President Barack Obama and his Chilean counterpart Sebastian Pinera, right, during a state visit to Chile in March.The letter of intent states that the US Bureau of Education and Cultural Affairs will develop teacher training capacity for pre- and in-service English language teachers and update the existing school curriculum.The US will also support development of bilingual education programmes in Chilean schools starting for students aged 10-11.South Africa data shows 'value' of English languageA study of South Africa's labour market which included a survey of 28,000 people across the country indicates that adults who reported good reading and writing abilities in English did much better in the job market than those who reported fair or lower English skills.One of the researchers, professor Dori Posel, said that rewards for English language skills in the labour market helped to explain why many schools chose English as the language of instruction from an early age, in the face of national policy to encourage mother-tongue learning.Posel told the Sunday Tribune newspaper that mother tongue instruction had become tainted by \"its association with the apartheid government policy of Bantu education, which made teaching in the mother tongue compulsory for the first eight years of school\".Max de Lotbini\u00e8remax.delotbiniere@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Tefl", "Higher education", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Corruption investigation shakes Ielts in Australia"},{"date": "2011-06-21T10:09:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia faces air transport chaos after ash from Chile's Cord\u00f3n Caulle volcano shut the country's busiest airports.Thousands of travellers were stranded after Qantas cancelled all domestic flights in and out of Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra on Tuesday afternoon, until at least Thursday. International flights have also been affected, with all Qantas planes due to land on Wednesday diverted or delayed until Thursday.Virgin has also cancelled flights out of Sydney and Melbourne until further notice. \"The ash plume is at a very low level and we're not comfortable flying at those levels,\" said Virgin Australia spokeswoman Danielle Keighery.The ash cloud from the volcano is circling Earth for a second time, after last week delaying about 700 flights across Australia and New Zealand.Passengers have been using whatever means possible to get to their destinations. Extra bus services have been put on, while three men paid a taxi driver A$1,200 (\u00a3770) to drive them for 10 hours from Melbourne to Sydney.The bureau of meteorology's volcanic ash advisory centre says the plume has travelled more than 2,500 miles (4,000km) in the past 24 hours and is \"clearly visible on satellite imagery\". It is hovering at between 5 and 8 miles.Hundreds of thousands of passengers have been disrupted across the country, according to Australia's Civil Aviation Safety Authority. \"When you take out major centres like Sydney and Melbourne, the knock-on effects of that are huge and that's unfortunate, but safety has to come first,\" said its spokesman, Peter Gibson.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Air transport", "World news", "Chile", "Sydney holidays", "Australia holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Travel", "Melbourne holidays", "Americas", "Asia Pacific", "Volcanoes", "Melbourne", "Australian Capital Territory"], "title": "Ash cloud's return causes flight chaos in Australia"},{"date": "2011-04-12T13:00:31Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Western Australia's anti corruption watchdog has launched an investigation to find out whether the Ielts test of English has been compromised at testing centres in the state following allegations that a staff member at Curtin University in Perth was bribed to falsify test results.Former Curtin staff member Keith Low last month admitted to the state's Corruption and Crime Commission that he was paid thousands of dollars to doctor English test results for up to 25 migrants applying for permanent residency.Ielts is the assessment of English language proficiency preferred by the Australian government for settlement and student visas. Last year immigration officials said they were considering accepting results from other tests and an announcement is expected soon.Curtin's vice-chancellor, Jeanette Hacket, said in a statement:\"This hearing has highlighted the risks inherent in this type of operation where Curtin staff are required to deliver an externally managed and controlled service. The service provided is not core to Curtin's operations and we are reviewing are continued involvement in offering this testing.\"Christchurch counts cost of February earthquake New Zealand's universities minister Steven Joyce said that Christchurch's $290m education export industry had nearly evaporated following the earthquake that struck the city on 22 February, but he said the sector would survive.Up to 180 are believed to havedied in the earthquake, including up to 80 students and staff at an English language school in the city centre.Joyce said that there had been 6,600 international higher-education students and 1,412 foreign school pupils enrolled with Christchurch providers at the time of the earthquake.According to institutions in the city, many foreign students returned home after the earthquake, but most have indicated they will return.About half of Christchurch's 120 private training establishments, many of which provide English language classes, were operating again last month, but Joyce said there was \"some risk\" that several may never reopen.US and Chile sign up for English assistanceThe US is set to send trainers to Chile develop the English language skills of school teachers under a renewed cooperation agreement endorsed by US President Barack Obama and his Chilean counterpart Sebastian Pinera, right, during a state visit to Chile in March.The letter of intent states that the US Bureau of Education and Cultural Affairs will develop teacher training capacity for pre- and in-service English language teachers and update the existing school curriculum.The US will also support development of bilingual education programmes in Chilean schools starting for students aged 10-11.South Africa data shows 'value' of English languageA study of South Africa's labour market which included a survey of 28,000 people across the country indicates that adults who reported good reading and writing abilities in English did much better in the job market than those who reported fair or lower English skills.One of the researchers, professor Dori Posel, said that rewards for English language skills in the labour market helped to explain why many schools chose English as the language of instruction from an early age, in the face of national policy to encourage mother-tongue learning.Posel told the Sunday Tribune newspaper that mother tongue instruction had become tainted by \"its association with the apartheid government policy of Bantu education, which made teaching in the mother tongue compulsory for the first eight years of school\".Max de Lotbini\u00e8remax.delotbiniere@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Tefl", "Higher education", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Corruption investigation shakes Ielts in Australia"},{"date": "2011-06-21T10:09:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia faces air transport chaos after ash from Chile's Cord\u00f3n Caulle volcano shut the country's busiest airports.Thousands of travellers were stranded after Qantas cancelled all domestic flights in and out of Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra on Tuesday afternoon, until at least Thursday. International flights have also been affected, with all Qantas planes due to land on Wednesday diverted or delayed until Thursday.Virgin has also cancelled flights out of Sydney and Melbourne until further notice. \"The ash plume is at a very low level and we're not comfortable flying at those levels,\" said Virgin Australia spokeswoman Danielle Keighery.The ash cloud from the volcano is circling Earth for a second time, after last week delaying about 700 flights across Australia and New Zealand.Passengers have been using whatever means possible to get to their destinations. Extra bus services have been put on, while three men paid a taxi driver A$1,200 (\u00a3770) to drive them for 10 hours from Melbourne to Sydney.The bureau of meteorology's volcanic ash advisory centre says the plume has travelled more than 2,500 miles (4,000km) in the past 24 hours and is \"clearly visible on satellite imagery\". It is hovering at between 5 and 8 miles.Hundreds of thousands of passengers have been disrupted across the country, according to Australia's Civil Aviation Safety Authority. \"When you take out major centres like Sydney and Melbourne, the knock-on effects of that are huge and that's unfortunate, but safety has to come first,\" said its spokesman, Peter Gibson.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Air transport", "World news", "Chile", "Sydney holidays", "Australia holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Travel", "Melbourne holidays", "Americas", "Asia Pacific", "Volcanoes", "Melbourne", "Australian Capital Territory"], "title": "Ash cloud's return causes flight chaos in Australia"},{"date": "2011-06-17T16:55:21Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia is deporting a convicted British rapist back to the UK after he served 12 years in jail for an attack on a woman whom he kidnapped and then raped in a makeshift dungeon.Leslie Cunliffe, 63, posed as a police officer to kidnap a 21-year-old university student in the Geelong suburb of Belmont. He gagged, blindfolded and bound her, strapped a fake bomb to her and raped her. The attack was likened to a scene from Thomas Harris's novel Silence of the Lambs.Cunliffe then demanded A$1m in ransom from the student's family during the May 1999 attack near Melbourne, Victoria. Police compared the dungeon where Cunliffe imprisoned the woman for seven hours to something akin to Harris's novel, the Geelong Advertiser reported.Cunliffe, who is a British passport holder, served 12 years of a 15-year sentence in prison in Australia for the rape before being freed from the Marngoneet correctional centre in Lara, Victoria, this April. Immigration officials in Victoria detained him on Thursday, and he is now being held at an immigration detention centre there, awaiting his deportation back to Britain.No date has been set for his return.A spokeswoman for Australia's immigration department said: \"Officers are undertaking to remove [him] to the UK. It will be as soon as practical.\" The Australian authorities cancelled his visa on \"character\" grounds under a provision in their Immigration Act , which allows them to remove those convicted of serious offences.A series of ageing British sex offenders have been deported to the UK under Australia's tough immigration policy.One paedophile, Raymond Horne, was removed to Britain in March 2008 having served a 12-year prison sentence for 14 sex offences. He lured two homeless boys, aged 13 and 15, to his flat while volunteering for a charity.Horne had moved to Queensland from Britain in 1952, but never became an Australian citizen and on his release the authorities revoked his visa.Robert Excell was deported to Britain six years ago after spending 37 years in Australian prisons for child sex convictions dating back to 1965, when he raped a seven-year-old boy. Excell was born in the UK and emigrated to Australia when he was 10, but never took citizenship.Simon Wilson, a convicted murderer and serial rapist, who had lived in Australia since he was two, was sent back to Britain in January 2008 after being released on licence from a life sentence for killing an elderly woman whom he had punched repeatedly. Three months later, in the UK, he attacked and tried to rape a 71-year-old woman in Camden, north London.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "UK news", "Rape", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia to deport 'Silence of Lambs' rapist back to Britain"},{"date": "2011-04-12T13:00:31Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Western Australia's anti corruption watchdog has launched an investigation to find out whether the Ielts test of English has been compromised at testing centres in the state following allegations that a staff member at Curtin University in Perth was bribed to falsify test results.Former Curtin staff member Keith Low last month admitted to the state's Corruption and Crime Commission that he was paid thousands of dollars to doctor English test results for up to 25 migrants applying for permanent residency.Ielts is the assessment of English language proficiency preferred by the Australian government for settlement and student visas. Last year immigration officials said they were considering accepting results from other tests and an announcement is expected soon.Curtin's vice-chancellor, Jeanette Hacket, said in a statement:\"This hearing has highlighted the risks inherent in this type of operation where Curtin staff are required to deliver an externally managed and controlled service. The service provided is not core to Curtin's operations and we are reviewing are continued involvement in offering this testing.\"Christchurch counts cost of February earthquake New Zealand's universities minister Steven Joyce said that Christchurch's $290m education export industry had nearly evaporated following the earthquake that struck the city on 22 February, but he said the sector would survive.Up to 180 are believed to havedied in the earthquake, including up to 80 students and staff at an English language school in the city centre.Joyce said that there had been 6,600 international higher-education students and 1,412 foreign school pupils enrolled with Christchurch providers at the time of the earthquake.According to institutions in the city, many foreign students returned home after the earthquake, but most have indicated they will return.About half of Christchurch's 120 private training establishments, many of which provide English language classes, were operating again last month, but Joyce said there was \"some risk\" that several may never reopen.US and Chile sign up for English assistanceThe US is set to send trainers to Chile develop the English language skills of school teachers under a renewed cooperation agreement endorsed by US President Barack Obama and his Chilean counterpart Sebastian Pinera, right, during a state visit to Chile in March.The letter of intent states that the US Bureau of Education and Cultural Affairs will develop teacher training capacity for pre- and in-service English language teachers and update the existing school curriculum.The US will also support development of bilingual education programmes in Chilean schools starting for students aged 10-11.South Africa data shows 'value' of English languageA study of South Africa's labour market which included a survey of 28,000 people across the country indicates that adults who reported good reading and writing abilities in English did much better in the job market than those who reported fair or lower English skills.One of the researchers, professor Dori Posel, said that rewards for English language skills in the labour market helped to explain why many schools chose English as the language of instruction from an early age, in the face of national policy to encourage mother-tongue learning.Posel told the Sunday Tribune newspaper that mother tongue instruction had become tainted by \"its association with the apartheid government policy of Bantu education, which made teaching in the mother tongue compulsory for the first eight years of school\".Max de Lotbini\u00e8remax.delotbiniere@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Tefl", "Higher education", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Corruption investigation shakes Ielts in Australia"},{"date": "2011-06-21T10:09:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia faces air transport chaos after ash from Chile's Cord\u00f3n Caulle volcano shut the country's busiest airports.Thousands of travellers were stranded after Qantas cancelled all domestic flights in and out of Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra on Tuesday afternoon, until at least Thursday. International flights have also been affected, with all Qantas planes due to land on Wednesday diverted or delayed until Thursday.Virgin has also cancelled flights out of Sydney and Melbourne until further notice. \"The ash plume is at a very low level and we're not comfortable flying at those levels,\" said Virgin Australia spokeswoman Danielle Keighery.The ash cloud from the volcano is circling Earth for a second time, after last week delaying about 700 flights across Australia and New Zealand.Passengers have been using whatever means possible to get to their destinations. Extra bus services have been put on, while three men paid a taxi driver A$1,200 (\u00a3770) to drive them for 10 hours from Melbourne to Sydney.The bureau of meteorology's volcanic ash advisory centre says the plume has travelled more than 2,500 miles (4,000km) in the past 24 hours and is \"clearly visible on satellite imagery\". It is hovering at between 5 and 8 miles.Hundreds of thousands of passengers have been disrupted across the country, according to Australia's Civil Aviation Safety Authority. \"When you take out major centres like Sydney and Melbourne, the knock-on effects of that are huge and that's unfortunate, but safety has to come first,\" said its spokesman, Peter Gibson.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Air transport", "World news", "Chile", "Sydney holidays", "Australia holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Travel", "Melbourne holidays", "Americas", "Asia Pacific", "Volcanoes", "Melbourne", "Australian Capital Territory"], "title": "Ash cloud's return causes flight chaos in Australia"},{"date": "2011-06-17T16:55:21Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia is deporting a convicted British rapist back to the UK after he served 12 years in jail for an attack on a woman whom he kidnapped and then raped in a makeshift dungeon.Leslie Cunliffe, 63, posed as a police officer to kidnap a 21-year-old university student in the Geelong suburb of Belmont. He gagged, blindfolded and bound her, strapped a fake bomb to her and raped her. The attack was likened to a scene from Thomas Harris's novel Silence of the Lambs.Cunliffe then demanded A$1m in ransom from the student's family during the May 1999 attack near Melbourne, Victoria. Police compared the dungeon where Cunliffe imprisoned the woman for seven hours to something akin to Harris's novel, the Geelong Advertiser reported.Cunliffe, who is a British passport holder, served 12 years of a 15-year sentence in prison in Australia for the rape before being freed from the Marngoneet correctional centre in Lara, Victoria, this April. Immigration officials in Victoria detained him on Thursday, and he is now being held at an immigration detention centre there, awaiting his deportation back to Britain.No date has been set for his return.A spokeswoman for Australia's immigration department said: \"Officers are undertaking to remove [him] to the UK. It will be as soon as practical.\" The Australian authorities cancelled his visa on \"character\" grounds under a provision in their Immigration Act , which allows them to remove those convicted of serious offences.A series of ageing British sex offenders have been deported to the UK under Australia's tough immigration policy.One paedophile, Raymond Horne, was removed to Britain in March 2008 having served a 12-year prison sentence for 14 sex offences. He lured two homeless boys, aged 13 and 15, to his flat while volunteering for a charity.Horne had moved to Queensland from Britain in 1952, but never became an Australian citizen and on his release the authorities revoked his visa.Robert Excell was deported to Britain six years ago after spending 37 years in Australian prisons for child sex convictions dating back to 1965, when he raped a seven-year-old boy. Excell was born in the UK and emigrated to Australia when he was 10, but never took citizenship.Simon Wilson, a convicted murderer and serial rapist, who had lived in Australia since he was two, was sent back to Britain in January 2008 after being released on licence from a life sentence for killing an elderly woman whom he had punched repeatedly. Three months later, in the UK, he attacked and tried to rape a 71-year-old woman in Camden, north London.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "UK news", "Rape", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia to deport 'Silence of Lambs' rapist back to Britain"},{"date": "2011-05-17T13:04:20Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A boatload of 32 asylum seekers believed to be from Afghanistan and Pakistan found in Australian waters will be the first to be sent to Malaysia, Papua New Guinea or another country under a contentious new strategy to deter future refugees from making the same journey.Following recent riots in Australia's detention centres, the government has announced a controversial agreement with Kuala Lumpur to send 800 boat people arriving on its shores to Malaysia, where they will have their claims processed by the UN. In exchange, it has made a commitment to accept 4,000 asylum seekers over the next four years from among the thousands of people currently waiting in Malaysia. It is negotiating with Papua New Guinea to accept hundreds more.The issue of the boat people has been haunting the Labor government since the 2007 election. One of its first measures was to dismantle the outgoing coalition government's Pacific solution, which involved sending migrants to remote Pacific islands until their case could be reviewed.But since 2008 there has been a steady stream of boats. About 6,000 asylum seekers (primarily Afghans, Iranians, Tamils and Iraqis) landed in Australia last year, up on the previous year though still fairly low by international standards.For some time the government has been looking for a solution involving neighbouring countries, both to reduce the pressure on detention centres and to reassure public opinion. After an unsuccessful attempt at convincing Timor-Leste to play ball, Julia Gillard's government seems at last to have found a regional partner.Gillard admitted families with children could be moved to Malaysia. The aim is to discourage prospective migrants from resorting to people smugglers, mostly based in Indonesia. \"Under this arrangement, don't get on that boat. What it will mean is you've given your money to a people smuggler, you've risked your life at sea and you will be at real risk of ending up in Malaysia instead,\" the prime minister said.Many commentators think the scheme will be expensive and unworkable, costing the Australian government an estimated A$290m ($310m). \"It's probably a terrific deal for Malaysia but it's a hopeless deal for Australia \u2026 we will send them one and get five back,\" said the opposition leader Tony Abbott, well known for his outspoken views on immigration.Human rights groups are particularly worried about the agreement, because Malaysia has not signed the international refugee convention. At present there are more than 90,000 asylum seekers and refugees waiting there.\"The living conditions for refugees in Malaysia are appalling: they are not allowed to work, have no access to education and are often subject to arbitrary detention. It is very worrying that Australia, despite its international obligations, should be sending back asylum seekers \u2013 who it should be protecting \u2013 to a country which has not signed the convention,\" said Graham Thom, Amnesty International Australia's refugee co-ordinator.\"The number of asylum seekers in Australia represents 2% of the total for western countries. We could take more,\" he added.\"These people are fleeing situations of conflict and this measure will make no difference: the decision is a matter of domestic politics,\" said Ian Rintoul, spokesperson for the Refugee Action Coalition. The government seemed to moving closer to its Liberal opponents for fear of alienating part of its electorate.The Greens, currently part of the ruling coalition in parliament, condemned the solution as \"inhumane\".This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Australia news", "Refugees", "Malaysia", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Australian immigration and asylum"], "title": "Australia offloads its first boatload of asylum seekers"},{"date": "2011-08-28T20:54:33Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Among the indigenous peoples of islands that few have heard of in the Torres Strait, off the north-eastern tip of Australia, there are fears that climate change may soon overwhelm them, with communities vanishing under rising seas. But these islands are 1,700 miles from Canberra, and their protests risk being drowned out by the prevailing clamour against Julia Gillard's government's plans to curb pollution generated by the nation's big companies.When parliament returned recently, there were 2,000 protesters outside, equipped with placards bearing slogans such as \"ditch the witch\". The opposition leader, Tony Abbott, partly distanced himself from such language, but demanded Ms Gillard scrap her planned carbon tax and call an early election. And last week lorry drivers converged on Canberra to demand an instant poll.This has long been a toxic issue in Australia. Ms Gillard's once famously popular predecessor as Labor leader, Kevin Rudd, lost first that popularity and then his leadership partly because he failed to steer through the legislation he had promised to deal with what had earlier been called \"the greatest moral, economic and social challenge of our time\". Ms Gillard, who led the plot to displace him and took on his job, was more sceptical. At the August 2010 election, she specifically promised voters: \"no carbon tax\".The issue had done for an opposition Liberal leader too. Malcolm Turnbull, leader of the conservative coalition in which the Liberals are the dominant force, ordered his troops to support the government's plans to combat climate change. He was toppled, and replaced by a man \u2013 Tony Abbott \u2013 who no doubt on the basis of long and subtle scientific analysis dismisses the whole case for man-made climate change as \"crap\".In the August 2010 election Labor clung to power only by deals with the Greens and two independents. To win their support, Ms Gillard had to ditch her previous promise and proceed with a carbon tax, thus allowing the opposition to charge her with deception. Mr Abbott's intention, which opinion polls suggest is being fulfilled, is to use the issue to prise Labor's blue-collar voters away from the party. Additionally, the Liberals now hope a developing scandal surrounding the Labor MP Craig Thomson, a former union general secretary, involving his alleged misuse of its credit card in a Sydney brothel, may come to deprive Ms Gillard of her majority.On any assessment, her position is precarious. It may make little sense in those distant islands, but, as often in climate change debates, while most scientific assessments point to one conclusion, politics points to another.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Climate change", "Environment", "Climate change", "Science", "Carbon tax", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia: a poisonous political climate | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-08-28T20:54:33Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Among the indigenous peoples of islands that few have heard of in the Torres Strait, off the north-eastern tip of Australia, there are fears that climate change may soon overwhelm them, with communities vanishing under rising seas. But these islands are 1,700 miles from Canberra, and their protests risk being drowned out by the prevailing clamour against Julia Gillard's government's plans to curb pollution generated by the nation's big companies.When parliament returned recently, there were 2,000 protesters outside, equipped with placards bearing slogans such as \"ditch the witch\". The opposition leader, Tony Abbott, partly distanced himself from such language, but demanded Ms Gillard scrap her planned carbon tax and call an early election. And last week lorry drivers converged on Canberra to demand an instant poll.This has long been a toxic issue in Australia. Ms Gillard's once famously popular predecessor as Labor leader, Kevin Rudd, lost first that popularity and then his leadership partly because he failed to steer through the legislation he had promised to deal with what had earlier been called \"the greatest moral, economic and social challenge of our time\". Ms Gillard, who led the plot to displace him and took on his job, was more sceptical. At the August 2010 election, she specifically promised voters: \"no carbon tax\".The issue had done for an opposition Liberal leader too. Malcolm Turnbull, leader of the conservative coalition in which the Liberals are the dominant force, ordered his troops to support the government's plans to combat climate change. He was toppled, and replaced by a man \u2013 Tony Abbott \u2013 who no doubt on the basis of long and subtle scientific analysis dismisses the whole case for man-made climate change as \"crap\".In the August 2010 election Labor clung to power only by deals with the Greens and two independents. To win their support, Ms Gillard had to ditch her previous promise and proceed with a carbon tax, thus allowing the opposition to charge her with deception. Mr Abbott's intention, which opinion polls suggest is being fulfilled, is to use the issue to prise Labor's blue-collar voters away from the party. Additionally, the Liberals now hope a developing scandal surrounding the Labor MP Craig Thomson, a former union general secretary, involving his alleged misuse of its credit card in a Sydney brothel, may come to deprive Ms Gillard of her majority.On any assessment, her position is precarious. It may make little sense in those distant islands, but, as often in climate change debates, while most scientific assessments point to one conclusion, politics points to another.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Climate change", "Environment", "Climate change", "Science", "Carbon tax", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia: a poisonous political climate | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-09-29T10:03:36Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The BBC has taken its global iPlayer app to Australia with the help of Doctor Who and the Daleks.The launch of the iPad app, for a monthly subscription of AU$9.49 or AU$89.99 a year, will be accompanied by an on-demand season of programmes featuring all of the Doctor's encounters with his most infamous enemy.Promising a \"mix of classic and contemporary British television specifically tailored for Australian viewers\", the iPlayer app gives users access to BBC shows including Little Britain, Absolutely Fabulous, This Life, House of Elliott, Silent Witness, Pole to Pole and Holby City.The iPlayer app will be available in Australia from Thursday, exclusively on the iPad. Viewers will be able to access some content for free before subscribing.Part of the pilot phase for the video-on-demand service, it marks a new stage in the global iPlayer's rollout following its launch in 11 markets in western Europe in July this year.Separately, BBC Worldwide announced on Thursday that Matthew Littleford has taken on the role of general manager of the pilot for the global BBC iPlayer.Littleford joined the BBC in April this year after three years overseeing the UKTV portfolio of channels, including Dave.Jana Bennett, president, worldwide networks and global BBC iPlayer, said: \"We launched the global BBC iPlayer because we think there's an untapped market for the 'best of British' shows, both for Brits living abroad and for all those people we know have a love of great British television, nowhere more so than Australia.\"A key part of BBC Worldwide's strategy to boost revenues, the BBC's commercial arm generated profits of \u00a3160m on sales of \u00a31.16bn in 2010/2011. It has targeted profits in excess of \u00a3200m for 2012.\u2022\u00a0To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".\u2022 To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook", "tags": ["iPlayer", "iPad", "BBC", "Television industry", "Digital media", "Media", "Australia news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "BBC iPlayer app launches in Australia"},{"date": "2011-08-28T20:54:33Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Among the indigenous peoples of islands that few have heard of in the Torres Strait, off the north-eastern tip of Australia, there are fears that climate change may soon overwhelm them, with communities vanishing under rising seas. But these islands are 1,700 miles from Canberra, and their protests risk being drowned out by the prevailing clamour against Julia Gillard's government's plans to curb pollution generated by the nation's big companies.When parliament returned recently, there were 2,000 protesters outside, equipped with placards bearing slogans such as \"ditch the witch\". The opposition leader, Tony Abbott, partly distanced himself from such language, but demanded Ms Gillard scrap her planned carbon tax and call an early election. And last week lorry drivers converged on Canberra to demand an instant poll.This has long been a toxic issue in Australia. Ms Gillard's once famously popular predecessor as Labor leader, Kevin Rudd, lost first that popularity and then his leadership partly because he failed to steer through the legislation he had promised to deal with what had earlier been called \"the greatest moral, economic and social challenge of our time\". Ms Gillard, who led the plot to displace him and took on his job, was more sceptical. At the August 2010 election, she specifically promised voters: \"no carbon tax\".The issue had done for an opposition Liberal leader too. Malcolm Turnbull, leader of the conservative coalition in which the Liberals are the dominant force, ordered his troops to support the government's plans to combat climate change. He was toppled, and replaced by a man \u2013 Tony Abbott \u2013 who no doubt on the basis of long and subtle scientific analysis dismisses the whole case for man-made climate change as \"crap\".In the August 2010 election Labor clung to power only by deals with the Greens and two independents. To win their support, Ms Gillard had to ditch her previous promise and proceed with a carbon tax, thus allowing the opposition to charge her with deception. Mr Abbott's intention, which opinion polls suggest is being fulfilled, is to use the issue to prise Labor's blue-collar voters away from the party. Additionally, the Liberals now hope a developing scandal surrounding the Labor MP Craig Thomson, a former union general secretary, involving his alleged misuse of its credit card in a Sydney brothel, may come to deprive Ms Gillard of her majority.On any assessment, her position is precarious. It may make little sense in those distant islands, but, as often in climate change debates, while most scientific assessments point to one conclusion, politics points to another.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Climate change", "Environment", "Climate change", "Science", "Carbon tax", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia: a poisonous political climate | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-09-29T10:03:36Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The BBC has taken its global iPlayer app to Australia with the help of Doctor Who and the Daleks.The launch of the iPad app, for a monthly subscription of AU$9.49 or AU$89.99 a year, will be accompanied by an on-demand season of programmes featuring all of the Doctor's encounters with his most infamous enemy.Promising a \"mix of classic and contemporary British television specifically tailored for Australian viewers\", the iPlayer app gives users access to BBC shows including Little Britain, Absolutely Fabulous, This Life, House of Elliott, Silent Witness, Pole to Pole and Holby City.The iPlayer app will be available in Australia from Thursday, exclusively on the iPad. Viewers will be able to access some content for free before subscribing.Part of the pilot phase for the video-on-demand service, it marks a new stage in the global iPlayer's rollout following its launch in 11 markets in western Europe in July this year.Separately, BBC Worldwide announced on Thursday that Matthew Littleford has taken on the role of general manager of the pilot for the global BBC iPlayer.Littleford joined the BBC in April this year after three years overseeing the UKTV portfolio of channels, including Dave.Jana Bennett, president, worldwide networks and global BBC iPlayer, said: \"We launched the global BBC iPlayer because we think there's an untapped market for the 'best of British' shows, both for Brits living abroad and for all those people we know have a love of great British television, nowhere more so than Australia.\"A key part of BBC Worldwide's strategy to boost revenues, the BBC's commercial arm generated profits of \u00a3160m on sales of \u00a31.16bn in 2010/2011. It has targeted profits in excess of \u00a3200m for 2012.\u2022\u00a0To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".\u2022 To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook", "tags": ["iPlayer", "iPad", "BBC", "Television industry", "Digital media", "Media", "Australia news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "BBC iPlayer app launches in Australia"},{"date": "2011-09-17T23:05:12Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Within minutes of arriving in Broome I find myself knee deep in the deliciously warm waters of the Indian Ocean, just another sun worshipper along the town's fabled Cable Beach. The 22km of powdery, pale-white sand that fringes the calm blue ocean is Broome's biggest draw, and the town's winter population of 15,000 quadruples in the summer, with retired grey nomads and younger backpackers who come to experience the star-filled clear skies and the sheer romance of its remoteness.On the northwestern tip of Australia, Broome is 1,800km from the nearest city, Darwin, and the gateway to the country's last frontier of pristine wilderness, the Kimberley. One of the most fascinating of all Australian towns, its rich and brutal history is inextricably linked to its precious export. Broome's modern history began in the 1870s, when it was discovered that the waters around the town were home to the Pinctada maxima \u2013 the world's largest pearl oyster. At first it was the shells that were thought valuable \u2013 the mother of pearl was used to make buttons and cutlery and jewellery that would be exported all the way to New York and London \u2013 and the oysters were collected by divers who sailed in and out on pearling luggers. In the town's heyday there were more than 400 boats sailing off the coast. Today the Intombi, built more than 100 years ago, is one of the last remaining pearl luggers afloat; she is owned by Ryan and Amy Risinger, who use her to take travellers for sunset cruises along the beach.We spend a beautiful afternoon on\u00a0deck with the sun beating down as the wind fills the sails and blows us\u00a0onward. Soon the sun is setting; the sea turns wine-dark and the sky looks like it has been smeared in fire and honey. It's hard to imagine what it would have been like for the pearl divers, so great was the contrast between the rather agreeable time I was having \u2013 sipping on a cold drink, admiring the stunning views \u2013 and the appalling conditions that they would have faced. Pearling masters would set sail on luggers with six or seven crew members and one diver who would work six days a week from dawn to dusk bringing shells to the surface. \"Imagine the stench!\" says Amy, passing another plate of hummus and carrot sticks as \"Hotel California\" plays over the speakers. \"All these guys sleeping on foul-smelling oyster shells\u2026\"The town itself was founded in 1883 and named after the then-state governor, Sir Frederick Napier Broome. There is no building taller\u00a0than two storeys and there are no traffic lights in the entire town. I\u00a0wander through Courthouse Market, where you can buy home-made candles while an Aboriginal man plays the didgeridoo. The centre of town is a strange amalgam of tourist-trap bars advertising wet T-shirt contests and luxury boutique pearl showrooms with necklaces costing $185,000.Around the turn of the 20th century, 80% of the world's finest pearls came from here \u2013 and the trade didn't just transform the town's fortunes but also its population. On Roebuck Bay I come across a statue of a pregnant Aborigine woman, her arms desperately rising out of a\u00a0wave with a pearl shell in her hand. In Broome's museum I learn more about the history she represents: \"blackbirding\", the deliberate kidnapping and enslavement of Aborigines to force them to skin dive for pearls, holding their breath for long periods. Pregnant Aboriginal women were believed to make the best divers, as it was thought they had greater lung capacity. I join young white families staring in silence at the chains and shackles, and photographs of grim-faced Aborigines manacled together.When blackbirding was outlawed,\u00a0Broome was faced with the\u00a0challenge of finding others to do the dangerous work of diving for pearls. In 1901 the Australian government passed the Immigration Restriction Act \u2013 which limited the numbers of non-whites coming into the country \u2013 but Broome was given a special exemption and immigrants arrived from China, Japan, Malaysia\u00a0and elsewhere to work as pearl divers and settle in the town. The legacy of that immigration and early multiculturalism is everywhere\u00a0in Broome: the town centre is called Chinatown.Among its best-known restaurants is Matso's, a Broome institution for more than 100 years. The original building was erected in 1900 as a bank, and it operated among opium dens and brothels until a fire destroyed the street of ill repute and the building was relocated to its current location. After stopping there for an evening meal of barramundi I\u00a0stroll down the road and come across the oldest outdoor cinema in the world, Sun Pictures, which opened in 1916 and is tonight showing a dodgy Jennifer Aniston romcom.The following day I drive 40km north to Willie Creek Farm \u2013 the only pearl farm offering tours to the public. The all-terrain vehicle ploughs through roads of red dust and the hot summer air is thick with dragonflies as we pass eucalyptus, waxy-leaved fragrant frangipani and mango trees. I sit on a wooden bench as a perky South African describes how they go about creating cultured pearls.\"Basically we take the oyster from the seabed,\" he says brightly, holding one in his hands, \"and then we very carefully open it up and insert a tiny hard ball into its gonads.\" The male members of the group cross their legs in unison. \"Now as you can imagine, guys, the oyster finds this very irritating, and it produces a white gooey nacre which wraps itself around the ball and over a couple of years that is what makes a perfectly round cultured pearl.\" It seems a trifle cruel to be sexually molesting a mollusc to allow a vain human to have something shiny to dangle from their ears. Already slightly queasy, I'm shepherded into a pearl showroom where seeing the prices charged for these pale white marbles almost causes me to faint.I reflect on the brutal, poor and masculine world of pearl diving and the refined, luxurious and largely female world of pearl wearing. Beauty and brutality \u2013 both can be found in Broome, a town bathed in sunshine with a heart of darkness. I\u00a0end my final day in the town where\u00a0I\u00a0began, on Cable Beach. The\u00a0sun is setting \u2013 a red disc slipping behind the sea \u2013 and I lie in the shallows with the ocean's warm water rushing over me. How easy it is\u00a0to be swept away.Return flights from Heathrow to Broome cost from \u00a31,177 with Qantas (qantas.com). Pinctada Cable Beach Resort and Spa (pinctadacablebeach.com.au) has rooms from \u00a3270 per room per night, based on two sharing. For further information, visit australia.com", "tags": ["Australia holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Australasia holidays", "Western Australia holidays"], "title": "Broome, the pearl of Western Australia"},{"date": "2011-08-28T20:54:33Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Among the indigenous peoples of islands that few have heard of in the Torres Strait, off the north-eastern tip of Australia, there are fears that climate change may soon overwhelm them, with communities vanishing under rising seas. But these islands are 1,700 miles from Canberra, and their protests risk being drowned out by the prevailing clamour against Julia Gillard's government's plans to curb pollution generated by the nation's big companies.When parliament returned recently, there were 2,000 protesters outside, equipped with placards bearing slogans such as \"ditch the witch\". The opposition leader, Tony Abbott, partly distanced himself from such language, but demanded Ms Gillard scrap her planned carbon tax and call an early election. And last week lorry drivers converged on Canberra to demand an instant poll.This has long been a toxic issue in Australia. Ms Gillard's once famously popular predecessor as Labor leader, Kevin Rudd, lost first that popularity and then his leadership partly because he failed to steer through the legislation he had promised to deal with what had earlier been called \"the greatest moral, economic and social challenge of our time\". Ms Gillard, who led the plot to displace him and took on his job, was more sceptical. At the August 2010 election, she specifically promised voters: \"no carbon tax\".The issue had done for an opposition Liberal leader too. Malcolm Turnbull, leader of the conservative coalition in which the Liberals are the dominant force, ordered his troops to support the government's plans to combat climate change. He was toppled, and replaced by a man \u2013 Tony Abbott \u2013 who no doubt on the basis of long and subtle scientific analysis dismisses the whole case for man-made climate change as \"crap\".In the August 2010 election Labor clung to power only by deals with the Greens and two independents. To win their support, Ms Gillard had to ditch her previous promise and proceed with a carbon tax, thus allowing the opposition to charge her with deception. Mr Abbott's intention, which opinion polls suggest is being fulfilled, is to use the issue to prise Labor's blue-collar voters away from the party. Additionally, the Liberals now hope a developing scandal surrounding the Labor MP Craig Thomson, a former union general secretary, involving his alleged misuse of its credit card in a Sydney brothel, may come to deprive Ms Gillard of her majority.On any assessment, her position is precarious. It may make little sense in those distant islands, but, as often in climate change debates, while most scientific assessments point to one conclusion, politics points to another.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Climate change", "Environment", "Climate change", "Science", "Carbon tax", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia: a poisonous political climate | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-09-29T10:03:36Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The BBC has taken its global iPlayer app to Australia with the help of Doctor Who and the Daleks.The launch of the iPad app, for a monthly subscription of AU$9.49 or AU$89.99 a year, will be accompanied by an on-demand season of programmes featuring all of the Doctor's encounters with his most infamous enemy.Promising a \"mix of classic and contemporary British television specifically tailored for Australian viewers\", the iPlayer app gives users access to BBC shows including Little Britain, Absolutely Fabulous, This Life, House of Elliott, Silent Witness, Pole to Pole and Holby City.The iPlayer app will be available in Australia from Thursday, exclusively on the iPad. Viewers will be able to access some content for free before subscribing.Part of the pilot phase for the video-on-demand service, it marks a new stage in the global iPlayer's rollout following its launch in 11 markets in western Europe in July this year.Separately, BBC Worldwide announced on Thursday that Matthew Littleford has taken on the role of general manager of the pilot for the global BBC iPlayer.Littleford joined the BBC in April this year after three years overseeing the UKTV portfolio of channels, including Dave.Jana Bennett, president, worldwide networks and global BBC iPlayer, said: \"We launched the global BBC iPlayer because we think there's an untapped market for the 'best of British' shows, both for Brits living abroad and for all those people we know have a love of great British television, nowhere more so than Australia.\"A key part of BBC Worldwide's strategy to boost revenues, the BBC's commercial arm generated profits of \u00a3160m on sales of \u00a31.16bn in 2010/2011. It has targeted profits in excess of \u00a3200m for 2012.\u2022\u00a0To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".\u2022 To get the latest media news to your desktop or mobile, follow MediaGuardian on Twitter and Facebook", "tags": ["iPlayer", "iPad", "BBC", "Television industry", "Digital media", "Media", "Australia news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "BBC iPlayer app launches in Australia"},{"date": "2011-09-17T23:05:12Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Within minutes of arriving in Broome I find myself knee deep in the deliciously warm waters of the Indian Ocean, just another sun worshipper along the town's fabled Cable Beach. The 22km of powdery, pale-white sand that fringes the calm blue ocean is Broome's biggest draw, and the town's winter population of 15,000 quadruples in the summer, with retired grey nomads and younger backpackers who come to experience the star-filled clear skies and the sheer romance of its remoteness.On the northwestern tip of Australia, Broome is 1,800km from the nearest city, Darwin, and the gateway to the country's last frontier of pristine wilderness, the Kimberley. One of the most fascinating of all Australian towns, its rich and brutal history is inextricably linked to its precious export. Broome's modern history began in the 1870s, when it was discovered that the waters around the town were home to the Pinctada maxima \u2013 the world's largest pearl oyster. At first it was the shells that were thought valuable \u2013 the mother of pearl was used to make buttons and cutlery and jewellery that would be exported all the way to New York and London \u2013 and the oysters were collected by divers who sailed in and out on pearling luggers. In the town's heyday there were more than 400 boats sailing off the coast. Today the Intombi, built more than 100 years ago, is one of the last remaining pearl luggers afloat; she is owned by Ryan and Amy Risinger, who use her to take travellers for sunset cruises along the beach.We spend a beautiful afternoon on\u00a0deck with the sun beating down as the wind fills the sails and blows us\u00a0onward. Soon the sun is setting; the sea turns wine-dark and the sky looks like it has been smeared in fire and honey. It's hard to imagine what it would have been like for the pearl divers, so great was the contrast between the rather agreeable time I was having \u2013 sipping on a cold drink, admiring the stunning views \u2013 and the appalling conditions that they would have faced. Pearling masters would set sail on luggers with six or seven crew members and one diver who would work six days a week from dawn to dusk bringing shells to the surface. \"Imagine the stench!\" says Amy, passing another plate of hummus and carrot sticks as \"Hotel California\" plays over the speakers. \"All these guys sleeping on foul-smelling oyster shells\u2026\"The town itself was founded in 1883 and named after the then-state governor, Sir Frederick Napier Broome. There is no building taller\u00a0than two storeys and there are no traffic lights in the entire town. I\u00a0wander through Courthouse Market, where you can buy home-made candles while an Aboriginal man plays the didgeridoo. The centre of town is a strange amalgam of tourist-trap bars advertising wet T-shirt contests and luxury boutique pearl showrooms with necklaces costing $185,000.Around the turn of the 20th century, 80% of the world's finest pearls came from here \u2013 and the trade didn't just transform the town's fortunes but also its population. On Roebuck Bay I come across a statue of a pregnant Aborigine woman, her arms desperately rising out of a\u00a0wave with a pearl shell in her hand. In Broome's museum I learn more about the history she represents: \"blackbirding\", the deliberate kidnapping and enslavement of Aborigines to force them to skin dive for pearls, holding their breath for long periods. Pregnant Aboriginal women were believed to make the best divers, as it was thought they had greater lung capacity. I join young white families staring in silence at the chains and shackles, and photographs of grim-faced Aborigines manacled together.When blackbirding was outlawed,\u00a0Broome was faced with the\u00a0challenge of finding others to do the dangerous work of diving for pearls. In 1901 the Australian government passed the Immigration Restriction Act \u2013 which limited the numbers of non-whites coming into the country \u2013 but Broome was given a special exemption and immigrants arrived from China, Japan, Malaysia\u00a0and elsewhere to work as pearl divers and settle in the town. The legacy of that immigration and early multiculturalism is everywhere\u00a0in Broome: the town centre is called Chinatown.Among its best-known restaurants is Matso's, a Broome institution for more than 100 years. The original building was erected in 1900 as a bank, and it operated among opium dens and brothels until a fire destroyed the street of ill repute and the building was relocated to its current location. After stopping there for an evening meal of barramundi I\u00a0stroll down the road and come across the oldest outdoor cinema in the world, Sun Pictures, which opened in 1916 and is tonight showing a dodgy Jennifer Aniston romcom.The following day I drive 40km north to Willie Creek Farm \u2013 the only pearl farm offering tours to the public. The all-terrain vehicle ploughs through roads of red dust and the hot summer air is thick with dragonflies as we pass eucalyptus, waxy-leaved fragrant frangipani and mango trees. I sit on a wooden bench as a perky South African describes how they go about creating cultured pearls.\"Basically we take the oyster from the seabed,\" he says brightly, holding one in his hands, \"and then we very carefully open it up and insert a tiny hard ball into its gonads.\" The male members of the group cross their legs in unison. \"Now as you can imagine, guys, the oyster finds this very irritating, and it produces a white gooey nacre which wraps itself around the ball and over a couple of years that is what makes a perfectly round cultured pearl.\" It seems a trifle cruel to be sexually molesting a mollusc to allow a vain human to have something shiny to dangle from their ears. Already slightly queasy, I'm shepherded into a pearl showroom where seeing the prices charged for these pale white marbles almost causes me to faint.I reflect on the brutal, poor and masculine world of pearl diving and the refined, luxurious and largely female world of pearl wearing. Beauty and brutality \u2013 both can be found in Broome, a town bathed in sunshine with a heart of darkness. I\u00a0end my final day in the town where\u00a0I\u00a0began, on Cable Beach. The\u00a0sun is setting \u2013 a red disc slipping behind the sea \u2013 and I lie in the shallows with the ocean's warm water rushing over me. How easy it is\u00a0to be swept away.Return flights from Heathrow to Broome cost from \u00a31,177 with Qantas (qantas.com). Pinctada Cable Beach Resort and Spa (pinctadacablebeach.com.au) has rooms from \u00a3270 per room per night, based on two sharing. For further information, visit australia.com", "tags": ["Australia holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel", "Australasia holidays", "Western Australia holidays"], "title": "Broome, the pearl of Western Australia"},{"date": "2011-08-31T06:44:07Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's attorney general has described WikiLeaks as \"incredibly irresponsible\" for publishing the names of 23 Australians accused by security services of having links to al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula.The cable, emanating from the US embassy in Canberra in January 2010, recommended that 11 Australians be placed on a no-fly list and a further 12 on a terrorism watch list.\"The publication of any information that could compromise Australia's national security \u2013 or inhibit the ability of intelligence agencies to monitor potential threats \u2013 is incredibly irresponsible,\" said the attorney general, Robert McClelland, breaking the government's longstanding position not to comment on WikiLeaks' material.\"On occasions in the past, WikiLeaks has decided to redact identifying features where security operations or safety could be put at risk,\" he said. \"This has not occurred in this case.\"WikiLeaks founder, Julian Assange, hit back, saying McClelland \"bemoans having his department being publicly caught ratting out 23 Australians to the US embassy without due process\".Assange said if McClelland was unhappy about being \"caught out\" perhaps he should consider cancelling his Australian passport again.\"It [the passport] has not, after all, proven terribly useful to me in the last 267 days of my detention without charge. Or perhaps he could do us all a favour, cancel his own passport and deport himself?\" said Assange.The one common element linking those named in the classified cable is an alleged connection with al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, now considered to be one of its most deadly franchises. Many are accused on having direct contact with Anwar al-Awlaki, the US-born cleric allegedly connected to high-profile attacks.Many of those named in the classified cable are either related by blood or marriage, including a mother and her two sons.A lawyer acting for her dismissed the allegations as baseless in an interview with a Sydney newspaper. Others named have also rejected any wrongdoing.McClelland said Yemen had become an increasingly important hub for al-Qaida-associated terrorist activity, particularly as al-Qaida encountered mounting pressure in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq.\"Australian authorities are working together with international partners to identify and mitigate threats, including by preventing Australians to travel overseas to undertake terrorism-related activity,\" he said.", "tags": ["WikiLeaks", "Australia news", "Media", "World news", "Al-Qaida", "Julian Assange", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "WikiLeaks cable leak 'irresponsible', says Australia"},{"date": "2011-11-21T10:53:05Z", "country": "australia", "content": "After successful stints in the West End and on Broadway, War Horse will open in Australia next year.The production will run at the Arts Centre's State theatre in Melbourne in late 2012 with a local cast playing both humans and horses.War Horse, based on Michael Morpurgo's novel of the same name, premiered in 2007 at the National theatre. The Australian production will be produced by Global Creatures, the company behind Walking with Dinosaurs \u2013 The Arena Spectacular and the forthcoming production of King Kong: Live on Stage, set to open in 2013.Premier of Victoria Ted Baillieu told the Age that the show's arrival in Melbourne would confirm the city's status as \"the theatre capital of Australia\".He continued, \"Melbourne's and Victoria's reputation as a world centre for theatre will be further enhanced by the War Horse partnership between the Victorian Major Events Company, the Arts Centre, Australian producers Global Creatures and the National theatre.\"Carmen Pavlovic, CEO of Global Creatures, said: \"We expect War Horse to have a great resonance in this country, not only because of our connection to world war one but because themes of the land, loss and the ultimate triumph of friendship have a special place in the Australian psyche.''War Horse is fast becoming the National theatre's cash cow. In October, the theatre announced the production had brought in \u00a313.9 million in the last financial year, which ended before its official opening on Broadway. That production, in turn, sold in excess of 240,000 tickets in its first four months, with more than 1.4 million people having seen the production in London.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Michael Morpurgo", "Books", "Culture", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "War Horse", "Melbourne"], "title": "War Horse transfers to Australia"},{"date": "2011-11-21T10:53:05Z", "country": "australia", "content": "After successful stints in the West End and on Broadway, War Horse will open in Australia next year.The production will run at the Arts Centre's State theatre in Melbourne in late 2012 with a local cast playing both humans and horses.War Horse, based on Michael Morpurgo's novel of the same name, premiered in 2007 at the National theatre. The Australian production will be produced by Global Creatures, the company behind Walking with Dinosaurs \u2013 The Arena Spectacular and the forthcoming production of King Kong: Live on Stage, set to open in 2013.Premier of Victoria Ted Baillieu told the Age that the show's arrival in Melbourne would confirm the city's status as \"the theatre capital of Australia\".He continued, \"Melbourne's and Victoria's reputation as a world centre for theatre will be further enhanced by the War Horse partnership between the Victorian Major Events Company, the Arts Centre, Australian producers Global Creatures and the National theatre.\"Carmen Pavlovic, CEO of Global Creatures, said: \"We expect War Horse to have a great resonance in this country, not only because of our connection to world war one but because themes of the land, loss and the ultimate triumph of friendship have a special place in the Australian psyche.''War Horse is fast becoming the National theatre's cash cow. In October, the theatre announced the production had brought in \u00a313.9 million in the last financial year, which ended before its official opening on Broadway. That production, in turn, sold in excess of 240,000 tickets in its first four months, with more than 1.4 million people having seen the production in London.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Michael Morpurgo", "Books", "Culture", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "War Horse", "Melbourne"], "title": "War Horse transfers to Australia"},{"date": "2011-10-21T07:00:02Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Elizabeth II is in town, and on the front pages in Australia once again. Not many countries have a head of state who has only set foot in the place 15 times over 60 years. How did we end up like this?Whenever you travel overseas, there's always curiosity and excitement when you introduce yourself as Australian. People want to hear your accent, to buy you drinks, to ask questions about spiders and crocodiles and Neighbours and maybe the cricket. We all know Australia's the greatest country in the world, so why do we cart around a diminutive 80-year-old British grandma as our head of state?Even as we export Australian sporting, acting and musical talent around the rest of the world, at home we're a little bit less sure of ourselves, a little bit insecure. On our own, we're quietly afraid that nobody remembers us for the right reasons. We started off as a dumping ground on the other side of the world for convicts and undesirables and ended up as a place like America where a white settler society was grafted on to land forcibly taken from the local inhabitants. But unlike America, we never fought a war to win our independence. We became a federation not because we were worried the British Empire was oppressive, but because we were worried nobody in it cared enough about us.We like to talk ourselves up but however much we might brag at the pub, when you take us home it turns out we're in need of a tender cuddle and to be told we're special. We're worried that if we take the picture of the Queen off the walls of our courtrooms and the backs of our coins, we wouldn't know what to put there instead.You won't hear this from monarchists. They're still crowing and dining out on their victory in the referendum of 1999 as if Australians actually positively chose to have a funny-sounding hat-wearing old lady who visits us once every decade or two as our head of state, as if monarchy is essentially Australian. Nobody in the rest of the world believes that. When Elizabeth II travels overseas, she travels as the British head of state. When Australia and England were competing to host the 2022 Fifa world cup, there was no doubt in anyone's mind who the House of Windsor backed to win. Everywhere you look, royal coats of arms are being taken down, the Queen is being removed from oaths, and the last generation of Queen's Counsels are heading towards retirement.And superficial as it might seem, the fact that our prime minister didn't curtsy in front of the Queen, instead making some sort of strange bob motion, does say something. We're not good with bowing and scraping.Even monarchists can't deny that most Australians think a republic is inevitable. Keeping true to our laid-back reputation, we're just not in any hurry to get there. A few things could hurry the process up, of course - Prince Charles ascending to the throne would certainly put a rocket under it. A bit of courage from the politicians who pledge themselves to republicanism but never seem to find the time to do anything about it wouldn't hurt either. But what makes the most difference are the times when we speak for ourselves with confidence, and we are doing that more and more. For one thing, we're way more ethnically diverse than we used to be. Australia in 2011 is not the Australia of 1951, or even the Australia of 1999. The beautiful moment in 2007 when our prime minister officially said \"sorry\" for generations of dispossession and destruction of indigenous Australians and their culture was a time when we knew who we were, and we were proud of it.All this is leading towards us bringing out not just self-confidence, but also one of our greatest characteristics, the spirit of equality, of all of us being in it together, not separated by the class and genetic divisions of the past. Australians just aren't built to be reigned over, and one day we'll show that to the world.", "tags": ["Australia news", "The Queen", "Monarchy", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia doesn't need a queen | Chris O'Regan"},{"date": "2011-11-21T10:53:05Z", "country": "australia", "content": "After successful stints in the West End and on Broadway, War Horse will open in Australia next year.The production will run at the Arts Centre's State theatre in Melbourne in late 2012 with a local cast playing both humans and horses.War Horse, based on Michael Morpurgo's novel of the same name, premiered in 2007 at the National theatre. The Australian production will be produced by Global Creatures, the company behind Walking with Dinosaurs \u2013 The Arena Spectacular and the forthcoming production of King Kong: Live on Stage, set to open in 2013.Premier of Victoria Ted Baillieu told the Age that the show's arrival in Melbourne would confirm the city's status as \"the theatre capital of Australia\".He continued, \"Melbourne's and Victoria's reputation as a world centre for theatre will be further enhanced by the War Horse partnership between the Victorian Major Events Company, the Arts Centre, Australian producers Global Creatures and the National theatre.\"Carmen Pavlovic, CEO of Global Creatures, said: \"We expect War Horse to have a great resonance in this country, not only because of our connection to world war one but because themes of the land, loss and the ultimate triumph of friendship have a special place in the Australian psyche.''War Horse is fast becoming the National theatre's cash cow. In October, the theatre announced the production had brought in \u00a313.9 million in the last financial year, which ended before its official opening on Broadway. That production, in turn, sold in excess of 240,000 tickets in its first four months, with more than 1.4 million people having seen the production in London.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Michael Morpurgo", "Books", "Culture", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "War Horse", "Melbourne"], "title": "War Horse transfers to Australia"},{"date": "2011-10-21T07:00:02Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Elizabeth II is in town, and on the front pages in Australia once again. Not many countries have a head of state who has only set foot in the place 15 times over 60 years. How did we end up like this?Whenever you travel overseas, there's always curiosity and excitement when you introduce yourself as Australian. People want to hear your accent, to buy you drinks, to ask questions about spiders and crocodiles and Neighbours and maybe the cricket. We all know Australia's the greatest country in the world, so why do we cart around a diminutive 80-year-old British grandma as our head of state?Even as we export Australian sporting, acting and musical talent around the rest of the world, at home we're a little bit less sure of ourselves, a little bit insecure. On our own, we're quietly afraid that nobody remembers us for the right reasons. We started off as a dumping ground on the other side of the world for convicts and undesirables and ended up as a place like America where a white settler society was grafted on to land forcibly taken from the local inhabitants. But unlike America, we never fought a war to win our independence. We became a federation not because we were worried the British Empire was oppressive, but because we were worried nobody in it cared enough about us.We like to talk ourselves up but however much we might brag at the pub, when you take us home it turns out we're in need of a tender cuddle and to be told we're special. We're worried that if we take the picture of the Queen off the walls of our courtrooms and the backs of our coins, we wouldn't know what to put there instead.You won't hear this from monarchists. They're still crowing and dining out on their victory in the referendum of 1999 as if Australians actually positively chose to have a funny-sounding hat-wearing old lady who visits us once every decade or two as our head of state, as if monarchy is essentially Australian. Nobody in the rest of the world believes that. When Elizabeth II travels overseas, she travels as the British head of state. When Australia and England were competing to host the 2022 Fifa world cup, there was no doubt in anyone's mind who the House of Windsor backed to win. Everywhere you look, royal coats of arms are being taken down, the Queen is being removed from oaths, and the last generation of Queen's Counsels are heading towards retirement.And superficial as it might seem, the fact that our prime minister didn't curtsy in front of the Queen, instead making some sort of strange bob motion, does say something. We're not good with bowing and scraping.Even monarchists can't deny that most Australians think a republic is inevitable. Keeping true to our laid-back reputation, we're just not in any hurry to get there. A few things could hurry the process up, of course - Prince Charles ascending to the throne would certainly put a rocket under it. A bit of courage from the politicians who pledge themselves to republicanism but never seem to find the time to do anything about it wouldn't hurt either. But what makes the most difference are the times when we speak for ourselves with confidence, and we are doing that more and more. For one thing, we're way more ethnically diverse than we used to be. Australia in 2011 is not the Australia of 1951, or even the Australia of 1999. The beautiful moment in 2007 when our prime minister officially said \"sorry\" for generations of dispossession and destruction of indigenous Australians and their culture was a time when we knew who we were, and we were proud of it.All this is leading towards us bringing out not just self-confidence, but also one of our greatest characteristics, the spirit of equality, of all of us being in it together, not separated by the class and genetic divisions of the past. Australians just aren't built to be reigned over, and one day we'll show that to the world.", "tags": ["Australia news", "The Queen", "Monarchy", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia doesn't need a queen | Chris O'Regan"},{"date": "2011-12-06T16:53:21Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The craic \u2013 the conviviality - was there all right. A dozen or so young Irish men and women singing and dancing their way through the night. Shouting and singing over the roar of a wild weekend pub session.McAlpine's Fusiliers, Spancil Hill, The Rakes of Kildare, Drowsy Maggie. And the rest. All the current favourites were being sung or played.It might have been a session anywhere in the Republic or Northern Ireland.But it wasn't. This session was taking place in Frances \u2013 a delightful little hamlet in South Australia near the Victorian border.The place was really jumping that night because there was a folk festival in the town and all the musos from near and far were there.On the night of this pub revelry the town was sweltering in uncharacteristic tropical humidity. It was also besieged by a plague of insects that had come with the weather. Crickets for example. And mosquitoes: the word in Frances was that in Naracoorte, the nearest sizeable town and one which has a hospital, they are getting four or five new cases of the mosquito borne Ross River virus a week.An Irish voice at my elbow in the session gave me some of their background: \"They're picking onions on farms in this area \u2026 There's some deal you can do with the government whereby if you do the seasonal rural work for six months you can get an extension on your [holiday] visa and stay here longer \u2026 There are big problems with the economy in Ireland now and that's why they are out here \u2026 Back home it's bad \u2026 The jobs aren't there for young people now \u2026 So, you do what you can to get by.\"Maybe these young ones are thinking of staying on in Australia. Who knows?For several delightful hours the songs and tunes kept coming \u2013 and the pints flowing \u2013 until we were all tipped out of the pub at midnight.I hope they all made it back safely to their farms. Someone's son or daughter back in Ireland, every one of them. Let's hope these young backpackers go on to live long and happy lives. Whether they spend the rest of their days here, or over there in Ireland, I hope they do so secure in the knowledge that the land of their birth has survived the current economic and social disaster and has continued to make its way in the world.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a 'Letter from' one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions for our Letter From page \u2013 they should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send submissions to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com ", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australia holidays", "Ireland", "Unemployment"], "title": "Letter from Australia: Songs of home"},{"date": "2011-11-21T10:53:05Z", "country": "australia", "content": "After successful stints in the West End and on Broadway, War Horse will open in Australia next year.The production will run at the Arts Centre's State theatre in Melbourne in late 2012 with a local cast playing both humans and horses.War Horse, based on Michael Morpurgo's novel of the same name, premiered in 2007 at the National theatre. The Australian production will be produced by Global Creatures, the company behind Walking with Dinosaurs \u2013 The Arena Spectacular and the forthcoming production of King Kong: Live on Stage, set to open in 2013.Premier of Victoria Ted Baillieu told the Age that the show's arrival in Melbourne would confirm the city's status as \"the theatre capital of Australia\".He continued, \"Melbourne's and Victoria's reputation as a world centre for theatre will be further enhanced by the War Horse partnership between the Victorian Major Events Company, the Arts Centre, Australian producers Global Creatures and the National theatre.\"Carmen Pavlovic, CEO of Global Creatures, said: \"We expect War Horse to have a great resonance in this country, not only because of our connection to world war one but because themes of the land, loss and the ultimate triumph of friendship have a special place in the Australian psyche.''War Horse is fast becoming the National theatre's cash cow. In October, the theatre announced the production had brought in \u00a313.9 million in the last financial year, which ended before its official opening on Broadway. That production, in turn, sold in excess of 240,000 tickets in its first four months, with more than 1.4 million people having seen the production in London.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Michael Morpurgo", "Books", "Culture", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "War Horse", "Melbourne"], "title": "War Horse transfers to Australia"},{"date": "2011-10-21T07:00:02Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Elizabeth II is in town, and on the front pages in Australia once again. Not many countries have a head of state who has only set foot in the place 15 times over 60 years. How did we end up like this?Whenever you travel overseas, there's always curiosity and excitement when you introduce yourself as Australian. People want to hear your accent, to buy you drinks, to ask questions about spiders and crocodiles and Neighbours and maybe the cricket. We all know Australia's the greatest country in the world, so why do we cart around a diminutive 80-year-old British grandma as our head of state?Even as we export Australian sporting, acting and musical talent around the rest of the world, at home we're a little bit less sure of ourselves, a little bit insecure. On our own, we're quietly afraid that nobody remembers us for the right reasons. We started off as a dumping ground on the other side of the world for convicts and undesirables and ended up as a place like America where a white settler society was grafted on to land forcibly taken from the local inhabitants. But unlike America, we never fought a war to win our independence. We became a federation not because we were worried the British Empire was oppressive, but because we were worried nobody in it cared enough about us.We like to talk ourselves up but however much we might brag at the pub, when you take us home it turns out we're in need of a tender cuddle and to be told we're special. We're worried that if we take the picture of the Queen off the walls of our courtrooms and the backs of our coins, we wouldn't know what to put there instead.You won't hear this from monarchists. They're still crowing and dining out on their victory in the referendum of 1999 as if Australians actually positively chose to have a funny-sounding hat-wearing old lady who visits us once every decade or two as our head of state, as if monarchy is essentially Australian. Nobody in the rest of the world believes that. When Elizabeth II travels overseas, she travels as the British head of state. When Australia and England were competing to host the 2022 Fifa world cup, there was no doubt in anyone's mind who the House of Windsor backed to win. Everywhere you look, royal coats of arms are being taken down, the Queen is being removed from oaths, and the last generation of Queen's Counsels are heading towards retirement.And superficial as it might seem, the fact that our prime minister didn't curtsy in front of the Queen, instead making some sort of strange bob motion, does say something. We're not good with bowing and scraping.Even monarchists can't deny that most Australians think a republic is inevitable. Keeping true to our laid-back reputation, we're just not in any hurry to get there. A few things could hurry the process up, of course - Prince Charles ascending to the throne would certainly put a rocket under it. A bit of courage from the politicians who pledge themselves to republicanism but never seem to find the time to do anything about it wouldn't hurt either. But what makes the most difference are the times when we speak for ourselves with confidence, and we are doing that more and more. For one thing, we're way more ethnically diverse than we used to be. Australia in 2011 is not the Australia of 1951, or even the Australia of 1999. The beautiful moment in 2007 when our prime minister officially said \"sorry\" for generations of dispossession and destruction of indigenous Australians and their culture was a time when we knew who we were, and we were proud of it.All this is leading towards us bringing out not just self-confidence, but also one of our greatest characteristics, the spirit of equality, of all of us being in it together, not separated by the class and genetic divisions of the past. Australians just aren't built to be reigned over, and one day we'll show that to the world.", "tags": ["Australia news", "The Queen", "Monarchy", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia doesn't need a queen | Chris O'Regan"},{"date": "2011-12-06T16:53:21Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The craic \u2013 the conviviality - was there all right. A dozen or so young Irish men and women singing and dancing their way through the night. Shouting and singing over the roar of a wild weekend pub session.McAlpine's Fusiliers, Spancil Hill, The Rakes of Kildare, Drowsy Maggie. And the rest. All the current favourites were being sung or played.It might have been a session anywhere in the Republic or Northern Ireland.But it wasn't. This session was taking place in Frances \u2013 a delightful little hamlet in South Australia near the Victorian border.The place was really jumping that night because there was a folk festival in the town and all the musos from near and far were there.On the night of this pub revelry the town was sweltering in uncharacteristic tropical humidity. It was also besieged by a plague of insects that had come with the weather. Crickets for example. And mosquitoes: the word in Frances was that in Naracoorte, the nearest sizeable town and one which has a hospital, they are getting four or five new cases of the mosquito borne Ross River virus a week.An Irish voice at my elbow in the session gave me some of their background: \"They're picking onions on farms in this area \u2026 There's some deal you can do with the government whereby if you do the seasonal rural work for six months you can get an extension on your [holiday] visa and stay here longer \u2026 There are big problems with the economy in Ireland now and that's why they are out here \u2026 Back home it's bad \u2026 The jobs aren't there for young people now \u2026 So, you do what you can to get by.\"Maybe these young ones are thinking of staying on in Australia. Who knows?For several delightful hours the songs and tunes kept coming \u2013 and the pints flowing \u2013 until we were all tipped out of the pub at midnight.I hope they all made it back safely to their farms. Someone's son or daughter back in Ireland, every one of them. Let's hope these young backpackers go on to live long and happy lives. Whether they spend the rest of their days here, or over there in Ireland, I hope they do so secure in the knowledge that the land of their birth has survived the current economic and social disaster and has continued to make its way in the world.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a 'Letter from' one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions for our Letter From page \u2013 they should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send submissions to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com ", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australia holidays", "Ireland", "Unemployment"], "title": "Letter from Australia: Songs of home"},{"date": "2011-11-10T11:48:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia is to become the first country to enforce the plain packaging of cigarettes but tobacco companies have vowed to fight the new legislation in court.From December next year, all cigarettes will be sold in olive green packs, which research has shown is least appealing to smokers.Under the new laws, approved by the upper house of parliament, no trademark brand logos will be permitted on any packaging of tobacco products, although companies will be able to print their name and the cigarette brand in small, prescribed font on the packets.The boxes will continue to carry stark health warning messages and pictures, which will cover 75% of the front of the pack and 90% of the back.\"If this legislation stops one young Australian from picking up a shiny, coloured packet and prevents them becoming addicted to cigarettes then in my view it will have been worthwhile,\" said John Faulkner, a Labor senator, during the parliamentary debate.The debate in Australia has been keenly watched around the world, including in Britain, Canada and New Zealand where similar plans to curtail branding are being considered.Cigarette giant British American Tobacco, which owns 46% of the Australian market, plans to challenge the legislation in the high court on constitutional grounds.\"The government can't take away valuable property from a legal company without compensation,\" said Scott McIntyre, spokesman for British American Tobacco Australia.McIntyre said the company's brands, including Winfield and Benson & Hedges, were worth billions of dollars.\"We're a legal company with legal products selling to adults who know the risks of smoking. We're taking this to the high court because we believe the removal of our valuable intellectual property is unconstitutional,\" he said.Cigarette makers Philip Morris Australia said the legislation meant it had little option but to pursue its compensation claim \"through international arbitration against Australia and to also consider domestic legal action under Australian law\".The health minister, Nicola Roxon, said the government would not be bullied by the tobacco industry's threat of a legal challenge.\"We're ready for that if they take legal action. We hope that they don't. We believe that this is a measure that's in the interests of the community and it would be better off for tobacco companies to look at ways they could invest in something that's not so harmful for the community,\" Roxon told reporters in Melbourne.Cigarette companies also say the plain-packaging legislation will increase the sale of illegal tobacco. \"Once the packs all look the same they will be very easy to copy,\" said McIntyre.Fifteen thousand Australians die from smoking-related illnesses each year with the social cost of smoking to the Australian economy estimated to be more than A$30bn (\u00a319bn) a year.Anti-smoking groups have welcomed the legislation. \"We believe that it will reduce smoking in younger people and the fact that tobacco companies have been using packs very effectively as one of the last forms of advertising is one reason why they're so upset about it,\" said Professor Ian Olver, chief executive officer of the Australian Cancer Council.Fifteen per cent of adults in Australia smoke compared with 23% a decade ago. In Britain about 22% of the adult population smokes, according to Cancer Research UK.Australia already has some of the toughest smoking regulations in the world. Cigarettes must be sold behind closed doors in retail outlets and advertising and sponsorship deals are banned. It is illegal to smoke in any public places including bars, restaurants or entertainment venues. Some local councils have banned smoking in parks and outdoor areas.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Smoking", "Society", "Advertising", "Media", "Health"], "title": "Australia passes plain-packaging cigarette law"},{"date": "2011-11-21T10:53:05Z", "country": "australia", "content": "After successful stints in the West End and on Broadway, War Horse will open in Australia next year.The production will run at the Arts Centre's State theatre in Melbourne in late 2012 with a local cast playing both humans and horses.War Horse, based on Michael Morpurgo's novel of the same name, premiered in 2007 at the National theatre. The Australian production will be produced by Global Creatures, the company behind Walking with Dinosaurs \u2013 The Arena Spectacular and the forthcoming production of King Kong: Live on Stage, set to open in 2013.Premier of Victoria Ted Baillieu told the Age that the show's arrival in Melbourne would confirm the city's status as \"the theatre capital of Australia\".He continued, \"Melbourne's and Victoria's reputation as a world centre for theatre will be further enhanced by the War Horse partnership between the Victorian Major Events Company, the Arts Centre, Australian producers Global Creatures and the National theatre.\"Carmen Pavlovic, CEO of Global Creatures, said: \"We expect War Horse to have a great resonance in this country, not only because of our connection to world war one but because themes of the land, loss and the ultimate triumph of friendship have a special place in the Australian psyche.''War Horse is fast becoming the National theatre's cash cow. In October, the theatre announced the production had brought in \u00a313.9 million in the last financial year, which ended before its official opening on Broadway. That production, in turn, sold in excess of 240,000 tickets in its first four months, with more than 1.4 million people having seen the production in London.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Michael Morpurgo", "Books", "Culture", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "War Horse", "Melbourne"], "title": "War Horse transfers to Australia"},{"date": "2011-10-21T07:00:02Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Elizabeth II is in town, and on the front pages in Australia once again. Not many countries have a head of state who has only set foot in the place 15 times over 60 years. How did we end up like this?Whenever you travel overseas, there's always curiosity and excitement when you introduce yourself as Australian. People want to hear your accent, to buy you drinks, to ask questions about spiders and crocodiles and Neighbours and maybe the cricket. We all know Australia's the greatest country in the world, so why do we cart around a diminutive 80-year-old British grandma as our head of state?Even as we export Australian sporting, acting and musical talent around the rest of the world, at home we're a little bit less sure of ourselves, a little bit insecure. On our own, we're quietly afraid that nobody remembers us for the right reasons. We started off as a dumping ground on the other side of the world for convicts and undesirables and ended up as a place like America where a white settler society was grafted on to land forcibly taken from the local inhabitants. But unlike America, we never fought a war to win our independence. We became a federation not because we were worried the British Empire was oppressive, but because we were worried nobody in it cared enough about us.We like to talk ourselves up but however much we might brag at the pub, when you take us home it turns out we're in need of a tender cuddle and to be told we're special. We're worried that if we take the picture of the Queen off the walls of our courtrooms and the backs of our coins, we wouldn't know what to put there instead.You won't hear this from monarchists. They're still crowing and dining out on their victory in the referendum of 1999 as if Australians actually positively chose to have a funny-sounding hat-wearing old lady who visits us once every decade or two as our head of state, as if monarchy is essentially Australian. Nobody in the rest of the world believes that. When Elizabeth II travels overseas, she travels as the British head of state. When Australia and England were competing to host the 2022 Fifa world cup, there was no doubt in anyone's mind who the House of Windsor backed to win. Everywhere you look, royal coats of arms are being taken down, the Queen is being removed from oaths, and the last generation of Queen's Counsels are heading towards retirement.And superficial as it might seem, the fact that our prime minister didn't curtsy in front of the Queen, instead making some sort of strange bob motion, does say something. We're not good with bowing and scraping.Even monarchists can't deny that most Australians think a republic is inevitable. Keeping true to our laid-back reputation, we're just not in any hurry to get there. A few things could hurry the process up, of course - Prince Charles ascending to the throne would certainly put a rocket under it. A bit of courage from the politicians who pledge themselves to republicanism but never seem to find the time to do anything about it wouldn't hurt either. But what makes the most difference are the times when we speak for ourselves with confidence, and we are doing that more and more. For one thing, we're way more ethnically diverse than we used to be. Australia in 2011 is not the Australia of 1951, or even the Australia of 1999. The beautiful moment in 2007 when our prime minister officially said \"sorry\" for generations of dispossession and destruction of indigenous Australians and their culture was a time when we knew who we were, and we were proud of it.All this is leading towards us bringing out not just self-confidence, but also one of our greatest characteristics, the spirit of equality, of all of us being in it together, not separated by the class and genetic divisions of the past. Australians just aren't built to be reigned over, and one day we'll show that to the world.", "tags": ["Australia news", "The Queen", "Monarchy", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia doesn't need a queen | Chris O'Regan"},{"date": "2011-12-06T16:53:21Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The craic \u2013 the conviviality - was there all right. A dozen or so young Irish men and women singing and dancing their way through the night. Shouting and singing over the roar of a wild weekend pub session.McAlpine's Fusiliers, Spancil Hill, The Rakes of Kildare, Drowsy Maggie. And the rest. All the current favourites were being sung or played.It might have been a session anywhere in the Republic or Northern Ireland.But it wasn't. This session was taking place in Frances \u2013 a delightful little hamlet in South Australia near the Victorian border.The place was really jumping that night because there was a folk festival in the town and all the musos from near and far were there.On the night of this pub revelry the town was sweltering in uncharacteristic tropical humidity. It was also besieged by a plague of insects that had come with the weather. Crickets for example. And mosquitoes: the word in Frances was that in Naracoorte, the nearest sizeable town and one which has a hospital, they are getting four or five new cases of the mosquito borne Ross River virus a week.An Irish voice at my elbow in the session gave me some of their background: \"They're picking onions on farms in this area \u2026 There's some deal you can do with the government whereby if you do the seasonal rural work for six months you can get an extension on your [holiday] visa and stay here longer \u2026 There are big problems with the economy in Ireland now and that's why they are out here \u2026 Back home it's bad \u2026 The jobs aren't there for young people now \u2026 So, you do what you can to get by.\"Maybe these young ones are thinking of staying on in Australia. Who knows?For several delightful hours the songs and tunes kept coming \u2013 and the pints flowing \u2013 until we were all tipped out of the pub at midnight.I hope they all made it back safely to their farms. Someone's son or daughter back in Ireland, every one of them. Let's hope these young backpackers go on to live long and happy lives. Whether they spend the rest of their days here, or over there in Ireland, I hope they do so secure in the knowledge that the land of their birth has survived the current economic and social disaster and has continued to make its way in the world.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a 'Letter from' one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions for our Letter From page \u2013 they should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send submissions to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com ", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australia holidays", "Ireland", "Unemployment"], "title": "Letter from Australia: Songs of home"},{"date": "2011-11-10T11:48:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia is to become the first country to enforce the plain packaging of cigarettes but tobacco companies have vowed to fight the new legislation in court.From December next year, all cigarettes will be sold in olive green packs, which research has shown is least appealing to smokers.Under the new laws, approved by the upper house of parliament, no trademark brand logos will be permitted on any packaging of tobacco products, although companies will be able to print their name and the cigarette brand in small, prescribed font on the packets.The boxes will continue to carry stark health warning messages and pictures, which will cover 75% of the front of the pack and 90% of the back.\"If this legislation stops one young Australian from picking up a shiny, coloured packet and prevents them becoming addicted to cigarettes then in my view it will have been worthwhile,\" said John Faulkner, a Labor senator, during the parliamentary debate.The debate in Australia has been keenly watched around the world, including in Britain, Canada and New Zealand where similar plans to curtail branding are being considered.Cigarette giant British American Tobacco, which owns 46% of the Australian market, plans to challenge the legislation in the high court on constitutional grounds.\"The government can't take away valuable property from a legal company without compensation,\" said Scott McIntyre, spokesman for British American Tobacco Australia.McIntyre said the company's brands, including Winfield and Benson & Hedges, were worth billions of dollars.\"We're a legal company with legal products selling to adults who know the risks of smoking. We're taking this to the high court because we believe the removal of our valuable intellectual property is unconstitutional,\" he said.Cigarette makers Philip Morris Australia said the legislation meant it had little option but to pursue its compensation claim \"through international arbitration against Australia and to also consider domestic legal action under Australian law\".The health minister, Nicola Roxon, said the government would not be bullied by the tobacco industry's threat of a legal challenge.\"We're ready for that if they take legal action. We hope that they don't. We believe that this is a measure that's in the interests of the community and it would be better off for tobacco companies to look at ways they could invest in something that's not so harmful for the community,\" Roxon told reporters in Melbourne.Cigarette companies also say the plain-packaging legislation will increase the sale of illegal tobacco. \"Once the packs all look the same they will be very easy to copy,\" said McIntyre.Fifteen thousand Australians die from smoking-related illnesses each year with the social cost of smoking to the Australian economy estimated to be more than A$30bn (\u00a319bn) a year.Anti-smoking groups have welcomed the legislation. \"We believe that it will reduce smoking in younger people and the fact that tobacco companies have been using packs very effectively as one of the last forms of advertising is one reason why they're so upset about it,\" said Professor Ian Olver, chief executive officer of the Australian Cancer Council.Fifteen per cent of adults in Australia smoke compared with 23% a decade ago. In Britain about 22% of the adult population smokes, according to Cancer Research UK.Australia already has some of the toughest smoking regulations in the world. Cigarettes must be sold behind closed doors in retail outlets and advertising and sponsorship deals are banned. It is illegal to smoke in any public places including bars, restaurants or entertainment venues. Some local councils have banned smoking in parks and outdoor areas.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Smoking", "Society", "Advertising", "Media", "Health"], "title": "Australia passes plain-packaging cigarette law"},{"date": "2011-11-02T20:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Everyone dreams of the glorious sunshine, the succulent barbecues and the azure ocean. But living in Australia offered other pleasures: a sense of unimaginable space, friendly locals, proper power showers, cute wombats, and, best of all, never having to wear socks.After two years, however, I gave up the antipodean idyll for cramped, chilly Britain once again. And I am not alone. Thousands of \"ping-pong poms\" emigrate to Australia only to return home again: almost 107,000 settled in Australia between 2005 and 2010, but over the same period more than 30,000 decided to leave permanently. Despite its booming economy, 86,300 people left Australia for ever in 2009/10, the highest emigration ever recorded.Why? Are ping-pong poms classic whingeing poms, unable to appreciate the wonders of down under? Or is Australia an achingly dull cultural desert?Economics may cause people to leave but emotions tend to bring them home again, say sociologists Mary Holmes and Roger Burrows, who studied the reasons for returning given by Britons on an internet discussion forum.After six years in Victoria, one woman bounced back to Britain citing the joys of \"walking everywhere, wrapping up warm, politeness, greenery, quality TV, cosy rooms, good driving, friendliness of people, sense of humour, being part of Europe, pubs, accents, shops\". She disparaged the Australia of \"macho culture, the bush, terrible driving, cliques, awful TV, heat, boredom, four-wheel-drives everywhere and dumbing down\".Finding Australia \"boring\" cropped up more than once but the urge to return may say more about the individual than the country they moved to.Returnees, says Burrows, are often \"very local people\" who grow up in close extended families and communities. \"If they moved to another town in the UK they would have that sense of displacement and loss,\" he says. Other studies have shown how British men in particular suffer loneliness in Australia because there is less post-work pub culture.Surprisingly, Skype and social networks may make things worse, says Burrows, because keeping close ties with home makes people less likely to bond with their new country.And ping-pong poms often keep on pinging. It is the curse of the exile to return home and find everything has changed, and disillusioned returnees often go back to Australia again.Australia has tempted me at times but it was not just my girlfriend and family who pulled me back to Britain. I missed football on a Saturday afternoon and grey days in November. And for all the glories of the ocean, I pined for the sea. The grey-brown, flat-calm North Sea.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Travel"], "title": "Is Australia too boring to emigrate to?"},{"date": "2011-11-21T10:53:05Z", "country": "australia", "content": "After successful stints in the West End and on Broadway, War Horse will open in Australia next year.The production will run at the Arts Centre's State theatre in Melbourne in late 2012 with a local cast playing both humans and horses.War Horse, based on Michael Morpurgo's novel of the same name, premiered in 2007 at the National theatre. The Australian production will be produced by Global Creatures, the company behind Walking with Dinosaurs \u2013 The Arena Spectacular and the forthcoming production of King Kong: Live on Stage, set to open in 2013.Premier of Victoria Ted Baillieu told the Age that the show's arrival in Melbourne would confirm the city's status as \"the theatre capital of Australia\".He continued, \"Melbourne's and Victoria's reputation as a world centre for theatre will be further enhanced by the War Horse partnership between the Victorian Major Events Company, the Arts Centre, Australian producers Global Creatures and the National theatre.\"Carmen Pavlovic, CEO of Global Creatures, said: \"We expect War Horse to have a great resonance in this country, not only because of our connection to world war one but because themes of the land, loss and the ultimate triumph of friendship have a special place in the Australian psyche.''War Horse is fast becoming the National theatre's cash cow. In October, the theatre announced the production had brought in \u00a313.9 million in the last financial year, which ended before its official opening on Broadway. That production, in turn, sold in excess of 240,000 tickets in its first four months, with more than 1.4 million people having seen the production in London.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Michael Morpurgo", "Books", "Culture", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "War Horse", "Melbourne"], "title": "War Horse transfers to Australia"},{"date": "2011-10-21T07:00:02Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Elizabeth II is in town, and on the front pages in Australia once again. Not many countries have a head of state who has only set foot in the place 15 times over 60 years. How did we end up like this?Whenever you travel overseas, there's always curiosity and excitement when you introduce yourself as Australian. People want to hear your accent, to buy you drinks, to ask questions about spiders and crocodiles and Neighbours and maybe the cricket. We all know Australia's the greatest country in the world, so why do we cart around a diminutive 80-year-old British grandma as our head of state?Even as we export Australian sporting, acting and musical talent around the rest of the world, at home we're a little bit less sure of ourselves, a little bit insecure. On our own, we're quietly afraid that nobody remembers us for the right reasons. We started off as a dumping ground on the other side of the world for convicts and undesirables and ended up as a place like America where a white settler society was grafted on to land forcibly taken from the local inhabitants. But unlike America, we never fought a war to win our independence. We became a federation not because we were worried the British Empire was oppressive, but because we were worried nobody in it cared enough about us.We like to talk ourselves up but however much we might brag at the pub, when you take us home it turns out we're in need of a tender cuddle and to be told we're special. We're worried that if we take the picture of the Queen off the walls of our courtrooms and the backs of our coins, we wouldn't know what to put there instead.You won't hear this from monarchists. They're still crowing and dining out on their victory in the referendum of 1999 as if Australians actually positively chose to have a funny-sounding hat-wearing old lady who visits us once every decade or two as our head of state, as if monarchy is essentially Australian. Nobody in the rest of the world believes that. When Elizabeth II travels overseas, she travels as the British head of state. When Australia and England were competing to host the 2022 Fifa world cup, there was no doubt in anyone's mind who the House of Windsor backed to win. Everywhere you look, royal coats of arms are being taken down, the Queen is being removed from oaths, and the last generation of Queen's Counsels are heading towards retirement.And superficial as it might seem, the fact that our prime minister didn't curtsy in front of the Queen, instead making some sort of strange bob motion, does say something. We're not good with bowing and scraping.Even monarchists can't deny that most Australians think a republic is inevitable. Keeping true to our laid-back reputation, we're just not in any hurry to get there. A few things could hurry the process up, of course - Prince Charles ascending to the throne would certainly put a rocket under it. A bit of courage from the politicians who pledge themselves to republicanism but never seem to find the time to do anything about it wouldn't hurt either. But what makes the most difference are the times when we speak for ourselves with confidence, and we are doing that more and more. For one thing, we're way more ethnically diverse than we used to be. Australia in 2011 is not the Australia of 1951, or even the Australia of 1999. The beautiful moment in 2007 when our prime minister officially said \"sorry\" for generations of dispossession and destruction of indigenous Australians and their culture was a time when we knew who we were, and we were proud of it.All this is leading towards us bringing out not just self-confidence, but also one of our greatest characteristics, the spirit of equality, of all of us being in it together, not separated by the class and genetic divisions of the past. Australians just aren't built to be reigned over, and one day we'll show that to the world.", "tags": ["Australia news", "The Queen", "Monarchy", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia doesn't need a queen | Chris O'Regan"},{"date": "2011-12-06T16:53:21Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The craic \u2013 the conviviality - was there all right. A dozen or so young Irish men and women singing and dancing their way through the night. Shouting and singing over the roar of a wild weekend pub session.McAlpine's Fusiliers, Spancil Hill, The Rakes of Kildare, Drowsy Maggie. And the rest. All the current favourites were being sung or played.It might have been a session anywhere in the Republic or Northern Ireland.But it wasn't. This session was taking place in Frances \u2013 a delightful little hamlet in South Australia near the Victorian border.The place was really jumping that night because there was a folk festival in the town and all the musos from near and far were there.On the night of this pub revelry the town was sweltering in uncharacteristic tropical humidity. It was also besieged by a plague of insects that had come with the weather. Crickets for example. And mosquitoes: the word in Frances was that in Naracoorte, the nearest sizeable town and one which has a hospital, they are getting four or five new cases of the mosquito borne Ross River virus a week.An Irish voice at my elbow in the session gave me some of their background: \"They're picking onions on farms in this area \u2026 There's some deal you can do with the government whereby if you do the seasonal rural work for six months you can get an extension on your [holiday] visa and stay here longer \u2026 There are big problems with the economy in Ireland now and that's why they are out here \u2026 Back home it's bad \u2026 The jobs aren't there for young people now \u2026 So, you do what you can to get by.\"Maybe these young ones are thinking of staying on in Australia. Who knows?For several delightful hours the songs and tunes kept coming \u2013 and the pints flowing \u2013 until we were all tipped out of the pub at midnight.I hope they all made it back safely to their farms. Someone's son or daughter back in Ireland, every one of them. Let's hope these young backpackers go on to live long and happy lives. Whether they spend the rest of their days here, or over there in Ireland, I hope they do so secure in the knowledge that the land of their birth has survived the current economic and social disaster and has continued to make its way in the world.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a 'Letter from' one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions for our Letter From page \u2013 they should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send submissions to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com ", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australia holidays", "Ireland", "Unemployment"], "title": "Letter from Australia: Songs of home"},{"date": "2011-11-10T11:48:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia is to become the first country to enforce the plain packaging of cigarettes but tobacco companies have vowed to fight the new legislation in court.From December next year, all cigarettes will be sold in olive green packs, which research has shown is least appealing to smokers.Under the new laws, approved by the upper house of parliament, no trademark brand logos will be permitted on any packaging of tobacco products, although companies will be able to print their name and the cigarette brand in small, prescribed font on the packets.The boxes will continue to carry stark health warning messages and pictures, which will cover 75% of the front of the pack and 90% of the back.\"If this legislation stops one young Australian from picking up a shiny, coloured packet and prevents them becoming addicted to cigarettes then in my view it will have been worthwhile,\" said John Faulkner, a Labor senator, during the parliamentary debate.The debate in Australia has been keenly watched around the world, including in Britain, Canada and New Zealand where similar plans to curtail branding are being considered.Cigarette giant British American Tobacco, which owns 46% of the Australian market, plans to challenge the legislation in the high court on constitutional grounds.\"The government can't take away valuable property from a legal company without compensation,\" said Scott McIntyre, spokesman for British American Tobacco Australia.McIntyre said the company's brands, including Winfield and Benson & Hedges, were worth billions of dollars.\"We're a legal company with legal products selling to adults who know the risks of smoking. We're taking this to the high court because we believe the removal of our valuable intellectual property is unconstitutional,\" he said.Cigarette makers Philip Morris Australia said the legislation meant it had little option but to pursue its compensation claim \"through international arbitration against Australia and to also consider domestic legal action under Australian law\".The health minister, Nicola Roxon, said the government would not be bullied by the tobacco industry's threat of a legal challenge.\"We're ready for that if they take legal action. We hope that they don't. We believe that this is a measure that's in the interests of the community and it would be better off for tobacco companies to look at ways they could invest in something that's not so harmful for the community,\" Roxon told reporters in Melbourne.Cigarette companies also say the plain-packaging legislation will increase the sale of illegal tobacco. \"Once the packs all look the same they will be very easy to copy,\" said McIntyre.Fifteen thousand Australians die from smoking-related illnesses each year with the social cost of smoking to the Australian economy estimated to be more than A$30bn (\u00a319bn) a year.Anti-smoking groups have welcomed the legislation. \"We believe that it will reduce smoking in younger people and the fact that tobacco companies have been using packs very effectively as one of the last forms of advertising is one reason why they're so upset about it,\" said Professor Ian Olver, chief executive officer of the Australian Cancer Council.Fifteen per cent of adults in Australia smoke compared with 23% a decade ago. In Britain about 22% of the adult population smokes, according to Cancer Research UK.Australia already has some of the toughest smoking regulations in the world. Cigarettes must be sold behind closed doors in retail outlets and advertising and sponsorship deals are banned. It is illegal to smoke in any public places including bars, restaurants or entertainment venues. Some local councils have banned smoking in parks and outdoor areas.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Smoking", "Society", "Advertising", "Media", "Health"], "title": "Australia passes plain-packaging cigarette law"},{"date": "2011-11-02T20:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Everyone dreams of the glorious sunshine, the succulent barbecues and the azure ocean. But living in Australia offered other pleasures: a sense of unimaginable space, friendly locals, proper power showers, cute wombats, and, best of all, never having to wear socks.After two years, however, I gave up the antipodean idyll for cramped, chilly Britain once again. And I am not alone. Thousands of \"ping-pong poms\" emigrate to Australia only to return home again: almost 107,000 settled in Australia between 2005 and 2010, but over the same period more than 30,000 decided to leave permanently. Despite its booming economy, 86,300 people left Australia for ever in 2009/10, the highest emigration ever recorded.Why? Are ping-pong poms classic whingeing poms, unable to appreciate the wonders of down under? Or is Australia an achingly dull cultural desert?Economics may cause people to leave but emotions tend to bring them home again, say sociologists Mary Holmes and Roger Burrows, who studied the reasons for returning given by Britons on an internet discussion forum.After six years in Victoria, one woman bounced back to Britain citing the joys of \"walking everywhere, wrapping up warm, politeness, greenery, quality TV, cosy rooms, good driving, friendliness of people, sense of humour, being part of Europe, pubs, accents, shops\". She disparaged the Australia of \"macho culture, the bush, terrible driving, cliques, awful TV, heat, boredom, four-wheel-drives everywhere and dumbing down\".Finding Australia \"boring\" cropped up more than once but the urge to return may say more about the individual than the country they moved to.Returnees, says Burrows, are often \"very local people\" who grow up in close extended families and communities. \"If they moved to another town in the UK they would have that sense of displacement and loss,\" he says. Other studies have shown how British men in particular suffer loneliness in Australia because there is less post-work pub culture.Surprisingly, Skype and social networks may make things worse, says Burrows, because keeping close ties with home makes people less likely to bond with their new country.And ping-pong poms often keep on pinging. It is the curse of the exile to return home and find everything has changed, and disillusioned returnees often go back to Australia again.Australia has tempted me at times but it was not just my girlfriend and family who pulled me back to Britain. I missed football on a Saturday afternoon and grey days in November. And for all the glories of the ocean, I pined for the sea. The grey-brown, flat-calm North Sea.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Travel"], "title": "Is Australia too boring to emigrate to?"},{"date": "2011-10-05T21:30:01Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The rise of China is a massive realignment of economic and, in due course, political and strategic power at a speed and on a scale the world has not seen before. According to the International Monetary Fund's forecasts it will overtake the United States as the world's largest economy in 2016. Others argue it has already done so.There are a few nations with a sense of cultural continuity and exceptionalism that rival China's, but none rival its scale. China sees itself as a 3,000-year culture, for almost all modern history the world's largest and strongest country.Resource security (energy, minerals and food) is a growing preoccupation of Beijing. Its rush to acquire access to natural resources, including in Australia, is entirely understandable. And the financial crisis offers great opportunities for a cash-rich China to acquire as many premium resource assets as it can, so that it emerges with a global portfolio of sufficient scale and diversity to secure long-term, low-cost access to all the resources it needs.So China represents a challenge to the US that is utterly unique. Americans, have assumed that they will always be the strongest, richest and cleverest nation on earth. Tom Friedman and Michael Mandelbaum's book, That Used to Be Us, is eloquent testimony to a growing sense of inadequacy. This sense of being outclassed by China is not limited to Americans. Nobody who has visited Shanghai could be unimpressed.To many in the west, as worrying as the shift of manufacturing and economic output to Asia are the transfers of political, institutional and military influence that will surely follow. And international institutions are changing to reflect that \u2013 the G20 is one example. Shifts in economic weight and military potential are a legitimate cause for anxiety, as the world's grim 20th-century history reminds us.Previous threats to more than a century of American economic primacy were not credible: the USSR of the late 50s and the Japan of the late 80s, the two alleged challengers, had economies only 40% as large. So the stakes are high, and this time the challenger is real.And there is also strategic anxiety in the US over China, reflecting a concern that China has a very different understanding of the way in which world affairs should be ordered than the west.While ever alert, we should not be alarmed, says Henry Kissinger, who argues that China's well-developed and historic sense of its central place will make it a less outwardly assertive leading power than the US. China's growth has indeed not been matched by any expansionist tendencies beyond reuniting Taiwan. The central role of trade in China's prosperity also argues for its rise to remain peaceful. At 55% of its GDP in 2010, it has more to lose than most from any conflict that disrupts global economic flows.The best and most realistic strategic outcome for east Asia must be one in which the powers are in balance, with each side effectively able to deny the domination of the other.With its energy and resource security depending on long global sea lanes, it is hardly surprising that China would seek to enhance its naval capacity, so suggestions that China's recent launch of one aircraft carrier and plans to build another are signs of a new belligerence are wide of the mark.It makes no sense for the US or its allies to base long-term strategic policy on the proposition that they are on an inevitable collision course with a militarily aggressive China. I disagree with the underlying premise of a 2009 Australian white paper that we should base our defence planning on the contingency of a naval war with China in the South China Sea. Prejudice is not a substitute for coolly rational analysis. China needs to be more transparent about its goals in the region and build confidence with its neighbours so that misunderstandings can be avoided.We in Australia have to adopt a clear-eyed appraisal of the strategic balance in east Asia. America is our closest ally. However, as China rises to become the world's largest economy and in time a military rival to the US we are presented with a nation whose institutions and culture are very different to ours. Yet China is our largest trading partner and in large measure responsible for our current and prospective prosperity. We have every reason, and indeed every prospect, of remaining close and becoming closer friends of both these giants.", "tags": ["China", "World news", "Australia news", "US foreign policy", "US domestic policy", "US news", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Australia: a friend to two giants | Malcolm Turnbull"},{"date": "2012-03-13T12:50:15Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Australian government has passed legislation that will create the country's first nuclear waste dump, despite fierce opposition from environmental and Aboriginal groups.The passage of the National Radioactive Waste Management Bill 2010 through the Senate paves the way for a highly controversial plan to store nuclear waste in Muckaty Station, a remote Aboriginal community in the arid central region of the Northern Territory.The ruling Labor party received support from the conservative coalition opposition to approve the bill, despite an ongoing federal court case over the legality of using the Muckaty site to store radioactive material.Currently, nuclear waste from the medical and mining industries is stored in more than 100 \"temporary\" sites in universities, hospitals, offices and laboratories across Australia.Anti-nuclear protesters disrupted proceedings in the Senate as the legislation was debated earlier on Tuesday, with the group heckling lawmakers from the public gallery over their support for the bill.A recent medical study warned that transporting nuclear waste over long distances to such an isolated location, which is 75 miles north of the Tennant Creek township, could endanger public health.\"The site is in an earthquake zone, it floods regularly, there are very long transport corridors, there are no jobs being applied and it's opposed from people on the ground, on the front line from Tennant (Creek) all the way up to the NT government and people around the country,\" said senator Scott Ludlam of the Greens, which successfully added an amendment to the bill that bans the importing of foreign nuclear waste to the site.Aboriginal groups launched legal action after claiming that traditional owners of the land around Muckaty do not approve of the dump, despite the government maintaining that the local Ngapa indigenous community supports the plan.Under Australian Native Title law, indigenous groups recognised as the traditional owners of land must be consulted and compensated for any major new infrastructure.Although the Australian government insists that it has not decided on a site for the dump, Muckaty is the only option under consideration and the Northern Territory government has already been offered AUS$10m if it accepts the facility.Finding a location for a national nuclear waste dump has proved a major headache for successive Australian governments, with former prime minister John Howard rebuffed in his attempt to situate the facility in South Australia in 2004.The Northern Territory government has complained that it is being strong-armed into taking the dump due to it being a \"constitutional weak link\" and not having the same rights as full Australian states.Nuclear power remains a highly contentious issue in Australia, which, despite having the largest uranium deposits in the world, has steadfastly refused to shift its largely coal-fired energy generation to nuclear.", "tags": ["Nuclear waste", "Energy", "Nuclear power", "Waste", "Environment", "Australia news", "Indigenous peoples", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Australia passes controversial nuclear waste bill"},{"date": "2012-03-13T12:50:15Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Australian government has passed legislation that will create the country's first nuclear waste dump, despite fierce opposition from environmental and Aboriginal groups.The passage of the National Radioactive Waste Management Bill 2010 through the Senate paves the way for a highly controversial plan to store nuclear waste in Muckaty Station, a remote Aboriginal community in the arid central region of the Northern Territory.The ruling Labor party received support from the conservative coalition opposition to approve the bill, despite an ongoing federal court case over the legality of using the Muckaty site to store radioactive material.Currently, nuclear waste from the medical and mining industries is stored in more than 100 \"temporary\" sites in universities, hospitals, offices and laboratories across Australia.Anti-nuclear protesters disrupted proceedings in the Senate as the legislation was debated earlier on Tuesday, with the group heckling lawmakers from the public gallery over their support for the bill.A recent medical study warned that transporting nuclear waste over long distances to such an isolated location, which is 75 miles north of the Tennant Creek township, could endanger public health.\"The site is in an earthquake zone, it floods regularly, there are very long transport corridors, there are no jobs being applied and it's opposed from people on the ground, on the front line from Tennant (Creek) all the way up to the NT government and people around the country,\" said senator Scott Ludlam of the Greens, which successfully added an amendment to the bill that bans the importing of foreign nuclear waste to the site.Aboriginal groups launched legal action after claiming that traditional owners of the land around Muckaty do not approve of the dump, despite the government maintaining that the local Ngapa indigenous community supports the plan.Under Australian Native Title law, indigenous groups recognised as the traditional owners of land must be consulted and compensated for any major new infrastructure.Although the Australian government insists that it has not decided on a site for the dump, Muckaty is the only option under consideration and the Northern Territory government has already been offered AUS$10m if it accepts the facility.Finding a location for a national nuclear waste dump has proved a major headache for successive Australian governments, with former prime minister John Howard rebuffed in his attempt to situate the facility in South Australia in 2004.The Northern Territory government has complained that it is being strong-armed into taking the dump due to it being a \"constitutional weak link\" and not having the same rights as full Australian states.Nuclear power remains a highly contentious issue in Australia, which, despite having the largest uranium deposits in the world, has steadfastly refused to shift its largely coal-fired energy generation to nuclear.", "tags": ["Nuclear waste", "Energy", "Nuclear power", "Waste", "Environment", "Australia news", "Indigenous peoples", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Australia passes controversial nuclear waste bill"},{"date": "2012-03-18T14:37:33Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It is the oldest surviving clipper ship in the world, apart from the Cutty Sark, and in its heyday carried emigrants from Scotland to Australia, where an estimated 250,000 people can trace their origins to its passengers.For years, the City of Adelaide has lain rotting on a slipway in Irvine. But now, nearly 150 years after the ship was built, preparations are under way for one last voyage \u2013 to Australia, where the vessel is to become a tourist attraction in Adelaide.According to the National Historic Ships Committee, the 176ft passenger and cargo ship is one of the most important in British maritime history, the last survivor of the timber trade between North America and the UK.Despite its early splendour and pedigree, the future had looked bleak for the City of Adelaide after it sank in the River Clyde. It became a political issue, with various parties laying claim to ownership until a bid from Australia secured its future.The ship was built in 1864 in Sunderland and launched on 7 May that year. It spent 23 years making 10,000-mile trips to and from Australia, and played a fundamental role in the development of the young nation.In 1893, the City of Adelaide was converted to a hospital ship at Southampton, and after being commissioned into the Royal Navy in 1924 was converted to a training ship at Irvine and renamed HMS Carrick. The ship was moored at Greenock, on the River Clyde, until 1950 and later in Glasgow, where it was used as a clubhouse for the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve.It became a landmark on the Clyde before it sank in 1991. After a year under water, it was raised by the Scottish Maritime Museum and later moved to its site in Irvine, Ayrshire. The Carrick was repaired and opened to the public in 1995 but there were problems with funding and the museum applied for consent to dismantle the vessel, which has listed building status, in May 2000.Experts said the amount of restoration required was so extensive it would be akin to building a new ship. They suggested breaking it up, but the proposal provoked a fierce campaign by several interested parties, including a group from Sunderland, to save the ship.In 2010, the Scottish government announced that the ship \u2013 once more named the City of Adelaide \u2013 would not be dismantled, and that Adelaide, the capital of South Australia state, had been identified as a preferred bidder.Engineers in Australia constructed a special 100-tonne cradle, costing \u00a3680,000, which has now arrived in Irvine. Once assembled and checked, the hull of the ship will be jacked up to allow the cradle to slide underneath. The clipper will be transported to Australia on a lift ship to become the centrepiece of a maritime heritage display in Port Adelaide.Jim Tildesley, the project co-ordinator for the Scottish museum's trustees, said the cradle was being assembled in Irvine under the supervision of one of its Australian designers. He added: \"The initial assembly is a test assembly to ensure that everything fits as it was made in 20 different locations in South Australia and so is coming together in Irvine for the first time. It is then subject to loading tests to meet Lloyd's [of London] and insurance requirements before being disassembled prior to fitting around the vessel.\"No date has been fixed as there are a number of stages and conditions still to be met and, having cleared each of those stages, any movement has to await an appropriate tide.\"On arrival in Adelaide, the ship will move to a location gifted by the state. A long-term conservation plan has been prepared, together with a business plan to ensure public access. Numerous events have been planned to mark the arrival of the vessel.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Heritage", "Culture"], "title": "Clipper ship City of Adelaide finds berth in Australia"},{"date": "2012-03-13T12:50:15Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Australian government has passed legislation that will create the country's first nuclear waste dump, despite fierce opposition from environmental and Aboriginal groups.The passage of the National Radioactive Waste Management Bill 2010 through the Senate paves the way for a highly controversial plan to store nuclear waste in Muckaty Station, a remote Aboriginal community in the arid central region of the Northern Territory.The ruling Labor party received support from the conservative coalition opposition to approve the bill, despite an ongoing federal court case over the legality of using the Muckaty site to store radioactive material.Currently, nuclear waste from the medical and mining industries is stored in more than 100 \"temporary\" sites in universities, hospitals, offices and laboratories across Australia.Anti-nuclear protesters disrupted proceedings in the Senate as the legislation was debated earlier on Tuesday, with the group heckling lawmakers from the public gallery over their support for the bill.A recent medical study warned that transporting nuclear waste over long distances to such an isolated location, which is 75 miles north of the Tennant Creek township, could endanger public health.\"The site is in an earthquake zone, it floods regularly, there are very long transport corridors, there are no jobs being applied and it's opposed from people on the ground, on the front line from Tennant (Creek) all the way up to the NT government and people around the country,\" said senator Scott Ludlam of the Greens, which successfully added an amendment to the bill that bans the importing of foreign nuclear waste to the site.Aboriginal groups launched legal action after claiming that traditional owners of the land around Muckaty do not approve of the dump, despite the government maintaining that the local Ngapa indigenous community supports the plan.Under Australian Native Title law, indigenous groups recognised as the traditional owners of land must be consulted and compensated for any major new infrastructure.Although the Australian government insists that it has not decided on a site for the dump, Muckaty is the only option under consideration and the Northern Territory government has already been offered AUS$10m if it accepts the facility.Finding a location for a national nuclear waste dump has proved a major headache for successive Australian governments, with former prime minister John Howard rebuffed in his attempt to situate the facility in South Australia in 2004.The Northern Territory government has complained that it is being strong-armed into taking the dump due to it being a \"constitutional weak link\" and not having the same rights as full Australian states.Nuclear power remains a highly contentious issue in Australia, which, despite having the largest uranium deposits in the world, has steadfastly refused to shift its largely coal-fired energy generation to nuclear.", "tags": ["Nuclear waste", "Energy", "Nuclear power", "Waste", "Environment", "Australia news", "Indigenous peoples", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Australia passes controversial nuclear waste bill"},{"date": "2012-03-18T14:37:33Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It is the oldest surviving clipper ship in the world, apart from the Cutty Sark, and in its heyday carried emigrants from Scotland to Australia, where an estimated 250,000 people can trace their origins to its passengers.For years, the City of Adelaide has lain rotting on a slipway in Irvine. But now, nearly 150 years after the ship was built, preparations are under way for one last voyage \u2013 to Australia, where the vessel is to become a tourist attraction in Adelaide.According to the National Historic Ships Committee, the 176ft passenger and cargo ship is one of the most important in British maritime history, the last survivor of the timber trade between North America and the UK.Despite its early splendour and pedigree, the future had looked bleak for the City of Adelaide after it sank in the River Clyde. It became a political issue, with various parties laying claim to ownership until a bid from Australia secured its future.The ship was built in 1864 in Sunderland and launched on 7 May that year. It spent 23 years making 10,000-mile trips to and from Australia, and played a fundamental role in the development of the young nation.In 1893, the City of Adelaide was converted to a hospital ship at Southampton, and after being commissioned into the Royal Navy in 1924 was converted to a training ship at Irvine and renamed HMS Carrick. The ship was moored at Greenock, on the River Clyde, until 1950 and later in Glasgow, where it was used as a clubhouse for the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve.It became a landmark on the Clyde before it sank in 1991. After a year under water, it was raised by the Scottish Maritime Museum and later moved to its site in Irvine, Ayrshire. The Carrick was repaired and opened to the public in 1995 but there were problems with funding and the museum applied for consent to dismantle the vessel, which has listed building status, in May 2000.Experts said the amount of restoration required was so extensive it would be akin to building a new ship. They suggested breaking it up, but the proposal provoked a fierce campaign by several interested parties, including a group from Sunderland, to save the ship.In 2010, the Scottish government announced that the ship \u2013 once more named the City of Adelaide \u2013 would not be dismantled, and that Adelaide, the capital of South Australia state, had been identified as a preferred bidder.Engineers in Australia constructed a special 100-tonne cradle, costing \u00a3680,000, which has now arrived in Irvine. Once assembled and checked, the hull of the ship will be jacked up to allow the cradle to slide underneath. The clipper will be transported to Australia on a lift ship to become the centrepiece of a maritime heritage display in Port Adelaide.Jim Tildesley, the project co-ordinator for the Scottish museum's trustees, said the cradle was being assembled in Irvine under the supervision of one of its Australian designers. He added: \"The initial assembly is a test assembly to ensure that everything fits as it was made in 20 different locations in South Australia and so is coming together in Irvine for the first time. It is then subject to loading tests to meet Lloyd's [of London] and insurance requirements before being disassembled prior to fitting around the vessel.\"No date has been fixed as there are a number of stages and conditions still to be met and, having cleared each of those stages, any movement has to await an appropriate tide.\"On arrival in Adelaide, the ship will move to a location gifted by the state. A long-term conservation plan has been prepared, together with a business plan to ensure public access. Numerous events have been planned to mark the arrival of the vessel.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Heritage", "Culture"], "title": "Clipper ship City of Adelaide finds berth in Australia"},{"date": "2012-03-06T04:23:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Vast areas of Australia's east and southeast are facing devastating flooding after weeks of heavy rain. In NSW alone \u2013 Australia's most populous state \u2013 an area the size of France is either under water or at risk of going under, after 16 river systems have flooded. Southeast Queensland and northern Victoria also face serious threats of flooding. \"This is devastating for small businesses, for farmers and for those whose houses have been flooded,\" said NSW state premier, Barry O'Farrell, who toured the state's affected region.  Attention has focused on the NSW town of Wagga Wagga, 475km south west of Sydney, as it faces its biggest flood in 150 years.  Around 9,000 residents have been evacuated from the city centre amid fears the town's levee banks may not withstand the flood coming down the Murrumbidgee river. It brings to 13,000 the number of people evacuated from their homes across the state.  The levee surrounding Wagga Wagga is 11m high and the river is expected to peak at 10.9m later on Tuesday. It's NSW's biggest inland city with 50,000 residents and it is an important agricultural, military and transport hub.  Residents have been filling sandbags to protect their properties and businesses. Two hundred and fifty homes on the north of the city have already been inundated. \"This is a very significant flood emergency and will continue to be a significant flood emergency down stream in the coming weeks,\" said James McTavish of the State Emergency Services. Authorities have pleaded with residents to heed evacuation requests and to stay away from floodwaters.  The president of the NSW Farmers Association, Fiona Simson, said the floods will have a massive impact on rural communities. \"Not least because we know the government hasn't got a lot of money,\" she told the Sydney Morning Herald.  The state government says it expects the bill for repairing roads alone will come to at least A$500m (\u00a3335m). Rising floodwaters in southeast Queensland are also threatening properties. More than 200mm of rain fell in 24 hours in some areas this week.  An 82-year-old man died in the town of Gympie, about 175km north of Brisbane on Monday after his car was caught in rising floodwaters.  The deluge in southeast Queensland follows earlier flood emergencies in the state's inland areas, including the state's biggest emergency evacuation in the town of St George in February. The huge amount of rainfall is being attributed to the La Nina phenomenon where the sea surface temperature across the equatorial Eastern Central Pacific Ocean falls lower than normal by three to five degrees celsius. It has meant NSW has had the ninth wettest and fourth coldest summer on record.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Asia Pacific", "Australia weather", "Victoria"], "title": "Thousands evacuate NSW towns as floods continue in Australia"},{"date": "2012-03-13T12:50:15Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Australian government has passed legislation that will create the country's first nuclear waste dump, despite fierce opposition from environmental and Aboriginal groups.The passage of the National Radioactive Waste Management Bill 2010 through the Senate paves the way for a highly controversial plan to store nuclear waste in Muckaty Station, a remote Aboriginal community in the arid central region of the Northern Territory.The ruling Labor party received support from the conservative coalition opposition to approve the bill, despite an ongoing federal court case over the legality of using the Muckaty site to store radioactive material.Currently, nuclear waste from the medical and mining industries is stored in more than 100 \"temporary\" sites in universities, hospitals, offices and laboratories across Australia.Anti-nuclear protesters disrupted proceedings in the Senate as the legislation was debated earlier on Tuesday, with the group heckling lawmakers from the public gallery over their support for the bill.A recent medical study warned that transporting nuclear waste over long distances to such an isolated location, which is 75 miles north of the Tennant Creek township, could endanger public health.\"The site is in an earthquake zone, it floods regularly, there are very long transport corridors, there are no jobs being applied and it's opposed from people on the ground, on the front line from Tennant (Creek) all the way up to the NT government and people around the country,\" said senator Scott Ludlam of the Greens, which successfully added an amendment to the bill that bans the importing of foreign nuclear waste to the site.Aboriginal groups launched legal action after claiming that traditional owners of the land around Muckaty do not approve of the dump, despite the government maintaining that the local Ngapa indigenous community supports the plan.Under Australian Native Title law, indigenous groups recognised as the traditional owners of land must be consulted and compensated for any major new infrastructure.Although the Australian government insists that it has not decided on a site for the dump, Muckaty is the only option under consideration and the Northern Territory government has already been offered AUS$10m if it accepts the facility.Finding a location for a national nuclear waste dump has proved a major headache for successive Australian governments, with former prime minister John Howard rebuffed in his attempt to situate the facility in South Australia in 2004.The Northern Territory government has complained that it is being strong-armed into taking the dump due to it being a \"constitutional weak link\" and not having the same rights as full Australian states.Nuclear power remains a highly contentious issue in Australia, which, despite having the largest uranium deposits in the world, has steadfastly refused to shift its largely coal-fired energy generation to nuclear.", "tags": ["Nuclear waste", "Energy", "Nuclear power", "Waste", "Environment", "Australia news", "Indigenous peoples", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Australia passes controversial nuclear waste bill"},{"date": "2012-03-18T14:37:33Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It is the oldest surviving clipper ship in the world, apart from the Cutty Sark, and in its heyday carried emigrants from Scotland to Australia, where an estimated 250,000 people can trace their origins to its passengers.For years, the City of Adelaide has lain rotting on a slipway in Irvine. But now, nearly 150 years after the ship was built, preparations are under way for one last voyage \u2013 to Australia, where the vessel is to become a tourist attraction in Adelaide.According to the National Historic Ships Committee, the 176ft passenger and cargo ship is one of the most important in British maritime history, the last survivor of the timber trade between North America and the UK.Despite its early splendour and pedigree, the future had looked bleak for the City of Adelaide after it sank in the River Clyde. It became a political issue, with various parties laying claim to ownership until a bid from Australia secured its future.The ship was built in 1864 in Sunderland and launched on 7 May that year. It spent 23 years making 10,000-mile trips to and from Australia, and played a fundamental role in the development of the young nation.In 1893, the City of Adelaide was converted to a hospital ship at Southampton, and after being commissioned into the Royal Navy in 1924 was converted to a training ship at Irvine and renamed HMS Carrick. The ship was moored at Greenock, on the River Clyde, until 1950 and later in Glasgow, where it was used as a clubhouse for the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve.It became a landmark on the Clyde before it sank in 1991. After a year under water, it was raised by the Scottish Maritime Museum and later moved to its site in Irvine, Ayrshire. The Carrick was repaired and opened to the public in 1995 but there were problems with funding and the museum applied for consent to dismantle the vessel, which has listed building status, in May 2000.Experts said the amount of restoration required was so extensive it would be akin to building a new ship. They suggested breaking it up, but the proposal provoked a fierce campaign by several interested parties, including a group from Sunderland, to save the ship.In 2010, the Scottish government announced that the ship \u2013 once more named the City of Adelaide \u2013 would not be dismantled, and that Adelaide, the capital of South Australia state, had been identified as a preferred bidder.Engineers in Australia constructed a special 100-tonne cradle, costing \u00a3680,000, which has now arrived in Irvine. Once assembled and checked, the hull of the ship will be jacked up to allow the cradle to slide underneath. The clipper will be transported to Australia on a lift ship to become the centrepiece of a maritime heritage display in Port Adelaide.Jim Tildesley, the project co-ordinator for the Scottish museum's trustees, said the cradle was being assembled in Irvine under the supervision of one of its Australian designers. He added: \"The initial assembly is a test assembly to ensure that everything fits as it was made in 20 different locations in South Australia and so is coming together in Irvine for the first time. It is then subject to loading tests to meet Lloyd's [of London] and insurance requirements before being disassembled prior to fitting around the vessel.\"No date has been fixed as there are a number of stages and conditions still to be met and, having cleared each of those stages, any movement has to await an appropriate tide.\"On arrival in Adelaide, the ship will move to a location gifted by the state. A long-term conservation plan has been prepared, together with a business plan to ensure public access. Numerous events have been planned to mark the arrival of the vessel.", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Heritage", "Culture"], "title": "Clipper ship City of Adelaide finds berth in Australia"},{"date": "2012-03-06T04:23:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Vast areas of Australia's east and southeast are facing devastating flooding after weeks of heavy rain. In NSW alone \u2013 Australia's most populous state \u2013 an area the size of France is either under water or at risk of going under, after 16 river systems have flooded. Southeast Queensland and northern Victoria also face serious threats of flooding. \"This is devastating for small businesses, for farmers and for those whose houses have been flooded,\" said NSW state premier, Barry O'Farrell, who toured the state's affected region.  Attention has focused on the NSW town of Wagga Wagga, 475km south west of Sydney, as it faces its biggest flood in 150 years.  Around 9,000 residents have been evacuated from the city centre amid fears the town's levee banks may not withstand the flood coming down the Murrumbidgee river. It brings to 13,000 the number of people evacuated from their homes across the state.  The levee surrounding Wagga Wagga is 11m high and the river is expected to peak at 10.9m later on Tuesday. It's NSW's biggest inland city with 50,000 residents and it is an important agricultural, military and transport hub.  Residents have been filling sandbags to protect their properties and businesses. Two hundred and fifty homes on the north of the city have already been inundated. \"This is a very significant flood emergency and will continue to be a significant flood emergency down stream in the coming weeks,\" said James McTavish of the State Emergency Services. Authorities have pleaded with residents to heed evacuation requests and to stay away from floodwaters.  The president of the NSW Farmers Association, Fiona Simson, said the floods will have a massive impact on rural communities. \"Not least because we know the government hasn't got a lot of money,\" she told the Sydney Morning Herald.  The state government says it expects the bill for repairing roads alone will come to at least A$500m (\u00a3335m). Rising floodwaters in southeast Queensland are also threatening properties. More than 200mm of rain fell in 24 hours in some areas this week.  An 82-year-old man died in the town of Gympie, about 175km north of Brisbane on Monday after his car was caught in rising floodwaters.  The deluge in southeast Queensland follows earlier flood emergencies in the state's inland areas, including the state's biggest emergency evacuation in the town of St George in February. The huge amount of rainfall is being attributed to the La Nina phenomenon where the sea surface temperature across the equatorial Eastern Central Pacific Ocean falls lower than normal by three to five degrees celsius. It has meant NSW has had the ninth wettest and fourth coldest summer on record.", "tags": ["Australia news", "World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Asia Pacific", "Australia weather", "Victoria"], "title": "Thousands evacuate NSW towns as floods continue in Australia"},{"date": "2012-03-02T11:50:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "An inquiry into Australia's media has recommended the establishment of a government-funded council to set and enforce journalistic standards.The investigation was launched after News Corporation closed the News of the World last year over the phone hacking scandal. News Corp owns 70% of Australia's newspapers through its subsidiary, News Ltd.Many Australian politicians argue that News Ltd's newspaper holdings are too large and are biased against the ruling Labour party (Rupert Murdoch tweeted criticism of its leader, Julia Gillard, and former leader, Kevin Rudd, this week).The Gillard government launched the inquiry in September and it heard more than 60 submissions in public hearings. The inquiry's report recommended that a government-funded \"News Media Council\" should be established to set journalistic standards and handle complaints when those standards are breached.The council would also be expected to regulate online news, covering any news website receiving 15,000 or more hits a year.Sources: AP/The Australian", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Australia news", "Rupert Murdoch", "News Corporation", "World news", "News of the World"], "title": "Call for Australia to set up state-funded media council"},{"date": "2012-06-19T13:01:56Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Turning right about 500km north of Adelaide we are in the desert land of yellowcake uranium, opals and fossil hunters. The landscape is dusk red as we drive into Andamooka where we are misled by the empty streets, seemingly abandoned mine workings and drifts of emus in the myall scrub. This is no sleepy landscape \u2013 there is drama, adventure and change all around us. Just a few kilometres away is the largest uranium deposit on the planet. Andamooka is starting to reap the benefits of its proximity to Olympic Dam and Roxby Downs, where rents are soaring and the Fifo (Fly in, fly out) set is being augmented by a more permanent mining society. Business is booming and the birth rate higher than the Australian average.Not everyone is happy. Opal miners cherish their privacy and some shake their heads over the newly tarred roads that will bring unwelcome, as well as welcome, visitors. Andamooka produces some of the world's finest opals and many of its rugged individuals prefer to gouge out their ghostly, open-cut mines up close and personal rather than with hands off, hi-tech juggernauts. Opal mining is an addictive quest, and only the heat and flies drive some to brief sleep before they shrug back over the potch mounds to their treasure hunts.But the real buccaneers of this outback are the fossil hunters, ranging across the arid depths of the ancient Eromanga Sea to uncover plesiosaurs, ichthyosaurs and giant crocodilians. Academics love them or loathe them; their finds are so precious they are sent to high-security lockups in the southern cities \u2013 or, sometimes, freely given to the nation's museums.We walk down a dusty road with a fossil hunter and he soon spots a perfect opalised shell under someone's foot. We are lucky enough to be invited home to see a dinosaur laid out across the carpet of two rooms, with its head on the kitchen table. Indiana Jones pales by comparison with this adventurer.As night falls the \"mine that never sleeps\" hurls it sulphurous glow at the sky, but fortunately loses the challenge to that majestic, glistening canopy. This mine can be spotted from space, and everywhere we are losing the wonder of the night sky to such light pollution.Perhaps the tarred road through Andamooka marks an end rather than a\u00a0beginning?Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Australia news", "South Australia"], "title": "Letter from Australia: treasure hunt"},{"date": "2012-06-19T13:01:56Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Turning right about 500km north of Adelaide we are in the desert land of yellowcake uranium, opals and fossil hunters. The landscape is dusk red as we drive into Andamooka where we are misled by the empty streets, seemingly abandoned mine workings and drifts of emus in the myall scrub. This is no sleepy landscape \u2013 there is drama, adventure and change all around us. Just a few kilometres away is the largest uranium deposit on the planet. Andamooka is starting to reap the benefits of its proximity to Olympic Dam and Roxby Downs, where rents are soaring and the Fifo (Fly in, fly out) set is being augmented by a more permanent mining society. Business is booming and the birth rate higher than the Australian average.Not everyone is happy. Opal miners cherish their privacy and some shake their heads over the newly tarred roads that will bring unwelcome, as well as welcome, visitors. Andamooka produces some of the world's finest opals and many of its rugged individuals prefer to gouge out their ghostly, open-cut mines up close and personal rather than with hands off, hi-tech juggernauts. Opal mining is an addictive quest, and only the heat and flies drive some to brief sleep before they shrug back over the potch mounds to their treasure hunts.But the real buccaneers of this outback are the fossil hunters, ranging across the arid depths of the ancient Eromanga Sea to uncover plesiosaurs, ichthyosaurs and giant crocodilians. Academics love them or loathe them; their finds are so precious they are sent to high-security lockups in the southern cities \u2013 or, sometimes, freely given to the nation's museums.We walk down a dusty road with a fossil hunter and he soon spots a perfect opalised shell under someone's foot. We are lucky enough to be invited home to see a dinosaur laid out across the carpet of two rooms, with its head on the kitchen table. Indiana Jones pales by comparison with this adventurer.As night falls the \"mine that never sleeps\" hurls it sulphurous glow at the sky, but fortunately loses the challenge to that majestic, glistening canopy. This mine can be spotted from space, and everywhere we are losing the wonder of the night sky to such light pollution.Perhaps the tarred road through Andamooka marks an end rather than a\u00a0beginning?Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Australia news", "South Australia"], "title": "Letter from Australia: treasure hunt"},{"date": "2012-05-25T06:52:56Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Five million dollars (\u00a33m) will get you a visa into Australia under new regulations announced on Friday.As of July, the new business innovation and investment visa programme will allow migrants who invest A$5m into either government bonds, regulated managed funds or directly into Australian companies, to enter the country.\"Australia is well placed to attract investors who are looking for the financial security offered by a stable government and economy,\" said the immigration minister, Chris Bowen.Bowen said he expects considerable interest in this new type of visa from across Asia, particularly China. He said a 2011 report on ultra-high net-worth individuals in China showed 47% of those with investable assets over A$15m (\u00a39.3m) were considering an application for investment migration.\"Their investments will offer a disproportionate boost to the economy and to the financial services sector,\" he said.The programme will be aimed at business migrants who have a track record in entrepreneurship.\"We will encourage them to take more innovative and bolder business decisions with greater certainty around their residence status while they're doing so,\" Bowen said.The Australian economy is one of the best performing in the developed world at present. The OECD predicts growth of 3.1% in 2012, compared with 2.4% in the US and 0.5% in the UK. Unemployment is also very low at 4.9%.Over the past decade, there has been a strong emphasis on skilled migration. In 2011-12, skilled migrants made up just under 70% of the country's total migration programme. This has partly been in response to the high demand for skilled workers in the mining and resource industries, with preference given to those with construction and engineering qualifications.The government expects the new investor visa, which will be contingent on residency in Australia, to attract hundreds of applicants. But it has been criticised by the minority Green party.\"There are many people in Australia who have been waiting a long time to be able to bring out family members, and these are people who are going to contribute to Australia in the long-term and really boost productivity,\" Sarah Hanson-Young, Greens spokesperson on immigration told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.\"But rather than prioritising those people, the government has picked the rich. I do think that's a little disappointing,\" she said.There is already a range of business visas in place, all subject to conditions. They require applicants to have net assets of between A$500,000 and A$1.25m (\u00a3310,000-\u00a3700,000) and some of them require a direct investment into Australia of up to A$1.5m (\u00a3930,000).", "tags": ["Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "Mining", "World news"], "title": "Australia targets super-rich immigrants"},{"date": "2012-06-19T13:01:56Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Turning right about 500km north of Adelaide we are in the desert land of yellowcake uranium, opals and fossil hunters. The landscape is dusk red as we drive into Andamooka where we are misled by the empty streets, seemingly abandoned mine workings and drifts of emus in the myall scrub. This is no sleepy landscape \u2013 there is drama, adventure and change all around us. Just a few kilometres away is the largest uranium deposit on the planet. Andamooka is starting to reap the benefits of its proximity to Olympic Dam and Roxby Downs, where rents are soaring and the Fifo (Fly in, fly out) set is being augmented by a more permanent mining society. Business is booming and the birth rate higher than the Australian average.Not everyone is happy. Opal miners cherish their privacy and some shake their heads over the newly tarred roads that will bring unwelcome, as well as welcome, visitors. Andamooka produces some of the world's finest opals and many of its rugged individuals prefer to gouge out their ghostly, open-cut mines up close and personal rather than with hands off, hi-tech juggernauts. Opal mining is an addictive quest, and only the heat and flies drive some to brief sleep before they shrug back over the potch mounds to their treasure hunts.But the real buccaneers of this outback are the fossil hunters, ranging across the arid depths of the ancient Eromanga Sea to uncover plesiosaurs, ichthyosaurs and giant crocodilians. Academics love them or loathe them; their finds are so precious they are sent to high-security lockups in the southern cities \u2013 or, sometimes, freely given to the nation's museums.We walk down a dusty road with a fossil hunter and he soon spots a perfect opalised shell under someone's foot. We are lucky enough to be invited home to see a dinosaur laid out across the carpet of two rooms, with its head on the kitchen table. Indiana Jones pales by comparison with this adventurer.As night falls the \"mine that never sleeps\" hurls it sulphurous glow at the sky, but fortunately loses the challenge to that majestic, glistening canopy. This mine can be spotted from space, and everywhere we are losing the wonder of the night sky to such light pollution.Perhaps the tarred road through Andamooka marks an end rather than a\u00a0beginning?Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Australia news", "South Australia"], "title": "Letter from Australia: treasure hunt"},{"date": "2012-05-25T06:52:56Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Five million dollars (\u00a33m) will get you a visa into Australia under new regulations announced on Friday.As of July, the new business innovation and investment visa programme will allow migrants who invest A$5m into either government bonds, regulated managed funds or directly into Australian companies, to enter the country.\"Australia is well placed to attract investors who are looking for the financial security offered by a stable government and economy,\" said the immigration minister, Chris Bowen.Bowen said he expects considerable interest in this new type of visa from across Asia, particularly China. He said a 2011 report on ultra-high net-worth individuals in China showed 47% of those with investable assets over A$15m (\u00a39.3m) were considering an application for investment migration.\"Their investments will offer a disproportionate boost to the economy and to the financial services sector,\" he said.The programme will be aimed at business migrants who have a track record in entrepreneurship.\"We will encourage them to take more innovative and bolder business decisions with greater certainty around their residence status while they're doing so,\" Bowen said.The Australian economy is one of the best performing in the developed world at present. The OECD predicts growth of 3.1% in 2012, compared with 2.4% in the US and 0.5% in the UK. Unemployment is also very low at 4.9%.Over the past decade, there has been a strong emphasis on skilled migration. In 2011-12, skilled migrants made up just under 70% of the country's total migration programme. This has partly been in response to the high demand for skilled workers in the mining and resource industries, with preference given to those with construction and engineering qualifications.The government expects the new investor visa, which will be contingent on residency in Australia, to attract hundreds of applicants. But it has been criticised by the minority Green party.\"There are many people in Australia who have been waiting a long time to be able to bring out family members, and these are people who are going to contribute to Australia in the long-term and really boost productivity,\" Sarah Hanson-Young, Greens spokesperson on immigration told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.\"But rather than prioritising those people, the government has picked the rich. I do think that's a little disappointing,\" she said.There is already a range of business visas in place, all subject to conditions. They require applicants to have net assets of between A$500,000 and A$1.25m (\u00a3310,000-\u00a3700,000) and some of them require a direct investment into Australia of up to A$1.5m (\u00a3930,000).", "tags": ["Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "Mining", "World news"], "title": "Australia targets super-rich immigrants"},{"date": "2012-05-01T08:01:37Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's slowing economy has pushed the country's central bank to slash interest rates by 0.5 percentage points to 3.75%, in a sign that the eurozone crisis and the cooling in China are affecting the global economy.Tuesday's cut was larger than most foreign exchange traders had anticipated and is expected by some analysts to be followed by several more cuts before the end of the year.The decision by the Reserve Bank of Australia follows the release last week of relatively weak inflation data. Economists had widely predicted a cut of only a quarter percentage point. The last interest rate cut was in December.\"This decision is based on information received over the past few months that suggests that economic conditions have been somewhat weaker than expected, while inflation has moderated,\" the Reserve Bank governor, Glenn Stevens, said in a statement.Like Brazil and other economies that have boomed in recent years on the back of commodity exports, Australia has suffered from a high exchange rate and rampant property price boom.The high-value Australian dollar has generated billions of dollars for mining companies during a long boom largely fuelled by China's demand for iron ore, coal and natural gas.But the strength of the currency, which has added to the cost of exports, has undermined more price-sensitive industries such as agriculture, tourism and manufacturing, which have suffered as mining has grown.Economists have accused Australia's government of allowing the economy to become a \"one-trick pony\" with an over-reliance on mining and vulnerable to a downturn in Chinese manufacturing.Stevens said a slowdown in demand from China was partly to blame for the weaker economic outlook.Over the past year house prices have slumped as mortgage rates have increased and consumer spending tightened.Michael Blythe, chief economist with Australia's Commonwealth Bank, said the central bank was probably hoping to provide \"a positive shock to consumer and business confidence by doing a bit more than people were expecting\".Last week, the Australian Bureau of Statistics released figures showing the annual inflation rate to March was 1.6%, down sharply from 3.1% a year earlier. The reserve bank's target inflation rate for the year is 2% to 3%.The bank cited the inflation data and a subdued housing market as reasons behind its decision. Stevens also noted slowing growth in the world economy, singling out the more moderate pace of growth in China and continuing tough conditions in Europe.Sales of new homes fell to their lowest level in more than a decade in March, dropping 9.4% from a month earlier, the nation's Housing Industry Association said on Monday. Housing prices in the country's capital cities are down 4.5% from the same period a year ago, the statistics bureau reported.The housing association's chief economist, Harley Dale, had called for the bank to cut rates by half a percentage point.\"The Bank needs to send a clear signal that it is back on the case of assisting an economy that is clearly weaker than it anticipated in 2012,\" Dale said.", "tags": ["Interest rates", "Australia news", "Economics", "Business", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Mining"], "title": "Australia cuts interest rates as economy slows"},{"date": "2012-06-19T13:01:56Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Turning right about 500km north of Adelaide we are in the desert land of yellowcake uranium, opals and fossil hunters. The landscape is dusk red as we drive into Andamooka where we are misled by the empty streets, seemingly abandoned mine workings and drifts of emus in the myall scrub. This is no sleepy landscape \u2013 there is drama, adventure and change all around us. Just a few kilometres away is the largest uranium deposit on the planet. Andamooka is starting to reap the benefits of its proximity to Olympic Dam and Roxby Downs, where rents are soaring and the Fifo (Fly in, fly out) set is being augmented by a more permanent mining society. Business is booming and the birth rate higher than the Australian average.Not everyone is happy. Opal miners cherish their privacy and some shake their heads over the newly tarred roads that will bring unwelcome, as well as welcome, visitors. Andamooka produces some of the world's finest opals and many of its rugged individuals prefer to gouge out their ghostly, open-cut mines up close and personal rather than with hands off, hi-tech juggernauts. Opal mining is an addictive quest, and only the heat and flies drive some to brief sleep before they shrug back over the potch mounds to their treasure hunts.But the real buccaneers of this outback are the fossil hunters, ranging across the arid depths of the ancient Eromanga Sea to uncover plesiosaurs, ichthyosaurs and giant crocodilians. Academics love them or loathe them; their finds are so precious they are sent to high-security lockups in the southern cities \u2013 or, sometimes, freely given to the nation's museums.We walk down a dusty road with a fossil hunter and he soon spots a perfect opalised shell under someone's foot. We are lucky enough to be invited home to see a dinosaur laid out across the carpet of two rooms, with its head on the kitchen table. Indiana Jones pales by comparison with this adventurer.As night falls the \"mine that never sleeps\" hurls it sulphurous glow at the sky, but fortunately loses the challenge to that majestic, glistening canopy. This mine can be spotted from space, and everywhere we are losing the wonder of the night sky to such light pollution.Perhaps the tarred road through Andamooka marks an end rather than a\u00a0beginning?Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Australia news", "South Australia"], "title": "Letter from Australia: treasure hunt"},{"date": "2012-05-25T06:52:56Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Five million dollars (\u00a33m) will get you a visa into Australia under new regulations announced on Friday.As of July, the new business innovation and investment visa programme will allow migrants who invest A$5m into either government bonds, regulated managed funds or directly into Australian companies, to enter the country.\"Australia is well placed to attract investors who are looking for the financial security offered by a stable government and economy,\" said the immigration minister, Chris Bowen.Bowen said he expects considerable interest in this new type of visa from across Asia, particularly China. He said a 2011 report on ultra-high net-worth individuals in China showed 47% of those with investable assets over A$15m (\u00a39.3m) were considering an application for investment migration.\"Their investments will offer a disproportionate boost to the economy and to the financial services sector,\" he said.The programme will be aimed at business migrants who have a track record in entrepreneurship.\"We will encourage them to take more innovative and bolder business decisions with greater certainty around their residence status while they're doing so,\" Bowen said.The Australian economy is one of the best performing in the developed world at present. The OECD predicts growth of 3.1% in 2012, compared with 2.4% in the US and 0.5% in the UK. Unemployment is also very low at 4.9%.Over the past decade, there has been a strong emphasis on skilled migration. In 2011-12, skilled migrants made up just under 70% of the country's total migration programme. This has partly been in response to the high demand for skilled workers in the mining and resource industries, with preference given to those with construction and engineering qualifications.The government expects the new investor visa, which will be contingent on residency in Australia, to attract hundreds of applicants. But it has been criticised by the minority Green party.\"There are many people in Australia who have been waiting a long time to be able to bring out family members, and these are people who are going to contribute to Australia in the long-term and really boost productivity,\" Sarah Hanson-Young, Greens spokesperson on immigration told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.\"But rather than prioritising those people, the government has picked the rich. I do think that's a little disappointing,\" she said.There is already a range of business visas in place, all subject to conditions. They require applicants to have net assets of between A$500,000 and A$1.25m (\u00a3310,000-\u00a3700,000) and some of them require a direct investment into Australia of up to A$1.5m (\u00a3930,000).", "tags": ["Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "Mining", "World news"], "title": "Australia targets super-rich immigrants"},{"date": "2012-05-01T08:01:37Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's slowing economy has pushed the country's central bank to slash interest rates by 0.5 percentage points to 3.75%, in a sign that the eurozone crisis and the cooling in China are affecting the global economy.Tuesday's cut was larger than most foreign exchange traders had anticipated and is expected by some analysts to be followed by several more cuts before the end of the year.The decision by the Reserve Bank of Australia follows the release last week of relatively weak inflation data. Economists had widely predicted a cut of only a quarter percentage point. The last interest rate cut was in December.\"This decision is based on information received over the past few months that suggests that economic conditions have been somewhat weaker than expected, while inflation has moderated,\" the Reserve Bank governor, Glenn Stevens, said in a statement.Like Brazil and other economies that have boomed in recent years on the back of commodity exports, Australia has suffered from a high exchange rate and rampant property price boom.The high-value Australian dollar has generated billions of dollars for mining companies during a long boom largely fuelled by China's demand for iron ore, coal and natural gas.But the strength of the currency, which has added to the cost of exports, has undermined more price-sensitive industries such as agriculture, tourism and manufacturing, which have suffered as mining has grown.Economists have accused Australia's government of allowing the economy to become a \"one-trick pony\" with an over-reliance on mining and vulnerable to a downturn in Chinese manufacturing.Stevens said a slowdown in demand from China was partly to blame for the weaker economic outlook.Over the past year house prices have slumped as mortgage rates have increased and consumer spending tightened.Michael Blythe, chief economist with Australia's Commonwealth Bank, said the central bank was probably hoping to provide \"a positive shock to consumer and business confidence by doing a bit more than people were expecting\".Last week, the Australian Bureau of Statistics released figures showing the annual inflation rate to March was 1.6%, down sharply from 3.1% a year earlier. The reserve bank's target inflation rate for the year is 2% to 3%.The bank cited the inflation data and a subdued housing market as reasons behind its decision. Stevens also noted slowing growth in the world economy, singling out the more moderate pace of growth in China and continuing tough conditions in Europe.Sales of new homes fell to their lowest level in more than a decade in March, dropping 9.4% from a month earlier, the nation's Housing Industry Association said on Monday. Housing prices in the country's capital cities are down 4.5% from the same period a year ago, the statistics bureau reported.The housing association's chief economist, Harley Dale, had called for the bank to cut rates by half a percentage point.\"The Bank needs to send a clear signal that it is back on the case of assisting an economy that is clearly weaker than it anticipated in 2012,\" Dale said.", "tags": ["Interest rates", "Australia news", "Economics", "Business", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Mining"], "title": "Australia cuts interest rates as economy slows"},{"date": "2012-06-29T10:51:56Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's controversial carbon tax comes into effect on Sunday after years of heated debate that has divided public opinion and driven the Labor government to a 40-year low in opinion polls.Under the new legislation, around 300 businesses will pay a fixed price of $AUD23/tonne for carbon emissions until 2015, when the market will set the price. Agriculture is exempt and trade-exposed industries like steel and aluminium will receive compensation of up to 94.5% on the price of permits.The government's target is to reduce emissions by 5% by 2020 and 80% by 2050 on 2000 levels.For prime minister, Julia Gillard, the carbon tax is the centrepiece of the country's \"clean energy future\". It's also the issue that will, in all likelihood, define her premiership and has been largely responsible for pushing her disapproval rating among voters to 60%.The conservative opposition says the tax will be a \"wrecking ball through the economy\".\"There is not a single problem in this country which is going to be helped by the carbon tax and all of our economic difficulties will be made worse by the carbon tax,\" said conservative opposition leader, Tony Abbott, on Friday.Abbott, a climate sceptic, has promised to repeal the tax if he's elected next year. It's created considerable uncertainty, particularly in the business community.\"The questions around whether the scheme will be here in two years' time has stifled investment certainty,\" said Elisa de Wit, head of climate change at law firm Norton Rose. She says companies are doing what they have to in order to comply with the tax, but many have reservations about investing too far into the future.The chief executive of the Climate Institute, John Connor, says the debate over pricing carbon has been heavily politicised, with a \"massive focus on cost of living, most of which is hyperinflated.\"\"It was always going to be a difficult debate because we are a high-carbon economy [Australia is the world's biggest exporter of black coal for electricity generation and iron ore], but it's been made much harder by the partisan debate and by shameless scaremongering about cost of living from some in politics and in business,\" he said.The Treasury estimates the carbon tax will add about 0.7% to consumer prices in 2012-13. To cushion the impact of price increases being passed on to consumers, the government has put in place a $AUD15bn compensation package over the first four years, that will be delivered in the form of tax cuts and welfare and pension increases. It estimates that in some cases, those on the lowest incomes will receive compensation greater than the impact of the tax.But none of this has shifted public opinion. A poll in early June showed only 37% of people were in favour of the carbon tax, with 59% against it. When Gillard was elected two years ago, the community divide on whether to put a price on carbon was roughly even.Much of the change in sentiment is due to her own change of heart on the tax. On the eve of her election victory in 2010, she promised there would be no carbon tax under a government she led. Subsequently, the reality of trying to establish a minority government in a hung parliament meant the tax became policy, after a deal with the Greens. The opposition has framed the debate around her volte face ever since and would win in a landslide if an election were held today.Australians generate more carbon pollution per head than any other developed country. With a population of 22 million, Australia is responsible for 1.5% for global greenhouse gas emissions. Britain, by comparison, with nearly three times the population, produces just 1.7%.", "tags": ["Carbon tax", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Environment", "Julia Gillard", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Business", "Australian politics"], "title": "Uncertainty hangs over Australia on eve of carbon tax introduction"},{"date": "2012-06-19T13:01:56Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Turning right about 500km north of Adelaide we are in the desert land of yellowcake uranium, opals and fossil hunters. The landscape is dusk red as we drive into Andamooka where we are misled by the empty streets, seemingly abandoned mine workings and drifts of emus in the myall scrub. This is no sleepy landscape \u2013 there is drama, adventure and change all around us. Just a few kilometres away is the largest uranium deposit on the planet. Andamooka is starting to reap the benefits of its proximity to Olympic Dam and Roxby Downs, where rents are soaring and the Fifo (Fly in, fly out) set is being augmented by a more permanent mining society. Business is booming and the birth rate higher than the Australian average.Not everyone is happy. Opal miners cherish their privacy and some shake their heads over the newly tarred roads that will bring unwelcome, as well as welcome, visitors. Andamooka produces some of the world's finest opals and many of its rugged individuals prefer to gouge out their ghostly, open-cut mines up close and personal rather than with hands off, hi-tech juggernauts. Opal mining is an addictive quest, and only the heat and flies drive some to brief sleep before they shrug back over the potch mounds to their treasure hunts.But the real buccaneers of this outback are the fossil hunters, ranging across the arid depths of the ancient Eromanga Sea to uncover plesiosaurs, ichthyosaurs and giant crocodilians. Academics love them or loathe them; their finds are so precious they are sent to high-security lockups in the southern cities \u2013 or, sometimes, freely given to the nation's museums.We walk down a dusty road with a fossil hunter and he soon spots a perfect opalised shell under someone's foot. We are lucky enough to be invited home to see a dinosaur laid out across the carpet of two rooms, with its head on the kitchen table. Indiana Jones pales by comparison with this adventurer.As night falls the \"mine that never sleeps\" hurls it sulphurous glow at the sky, but fortunately loses the challenge to that majestic, glistening canopy. This mine can be spotted from space, and everywhere we are losing the wonder of the night sky to such light pollution.Perhaps the tarred road through Andamooka marks an end rather than a\u00a0beginning?Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Australia news", "South Australia"], "title": "Letter from Australia: treasure hunt"},{"date": "2012-05-25T06:52:56Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Five million dollars (\u00a33m) will get you a visa into Australia under new regulations announced on Friday.As of July, the new business innovation and investment visa programme will allow migrants who invest A$5m into either government bonds, regulated managed funds or directly into Australian companies, to enter the country.\"Australia is well placed to attract investors who are looking for the financial security offered by a stable government and economy,\" said the immigration minister, Chris Bowen.Bowen said he expects considerable interest in this new type of visa from across Asia, particularly China. He said a 2011 report on ultra-high net-worth individuals in China showed 47% of those with investable assets over A$15m (\u00a39.3m) were considering an application for investment migration.\"Their investments will offer a disproportionate boost to the economy and to the financial services sector,\" he said.The programme will be aimed at business migrants who have a track record in entrepreneurship.\"We will encourage them to take more innovative and bolder business decisions with greater certainty around their residence status while they're doing so,\" Bowen said.The Australian economy is one of the best performing in the developed world at present. The OECD predicts growth of 3.1% in 2012, compared with 2.4% in the US and 0.5% in the UK. Unemployment is also very low at 4.9%.Over the past decade, there has been a strong emphasis on skilled migration. In 2011-12, skilled migrants made up just under 70% of the country's total migration programme. This has partly been in response to the high demand for skilled workers in the mining and resource industries, with preference given to those with construction and engineering qualifications.The government expects the new investor visa, which will be contingent on residency in Australia, to attract hundreds of applicants. But it has been criticised by the minority Green party.\"There are many people in Australia who have been waiting a long time to be able to bring out family members, and these are people who are going to contribute to Australia in the long-term and really boost productivity,\" Sarah Hanson-Young, Greens spokesperson on immigration told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.\"But rather than prioritising those people, the government has picked the rich. I do think that's a little disappointing,\" she said.There is already a range of business visas in place, all subject to conditions. They require applicants to have net assets of between A$500,000 and A$1.25m (\u00a3310,000-\u00a3700,000) and some of them require a direct investment into Australia of up to A$1.5m (\u00a3930,000).", "tags": ["Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "Mining", "World news"], "title": "Australia targets super-rich immigrants"},{"date": "2012-05-01T08:01:37Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's slowing economy has pushed the country's central bank to slash interest rates by 0.5 percentage points to 3.75%, in a sign that the eurozone crisis and the cooling in China are affecting the global economy.Tuesday's cut was larger than most foreign exchange traders had anticipated and is expected by some analysts to be followed by several more cuts before the end of the year.The decision by the Reserve Bank of Australia follows the release last week of relatively weak inflation data. Economists had widely predicted a cut of only a quarter percentage point. The last interest rate cut was in December.\"This decision is based on information received over the past few months that suggests that economic conditions have been somewhat weaker than expected, while inflation has moderated,\" the Reserve Bank governor, Glenn Stevens, said in a statement.Like Brazil and other economies that have boomed in recent years on the back of commodity exports, Australia has suffered from a high exchange rate and rampant property price boom.The high-value Australian dollar has generated billions of dollars for mining companies during a long boom largely fuelled by China's demand for iron ore, coal and natural gas.But the strength of the currency, which has added to the cost of exports, has undermined more price-sensitive industries such as agriculture, tourism and manufacturing, which have suffered as mining has grown.Economists have accused Australia's government of allowing the economy to become a \"one-trick pony\" with an over-reliance on mining and vulnerable to a downturn in Chinese manufacturing.Stevens said a slowdown in demand from China was partly to blame for the weaker economic outlook.Over the past year house prices have slumped as mortgage rates have increased and consumer spending tightened.Michael Blythe, chief economist with Australia's Commonwealth Bank, said the central bank was probably hoping to provide \"a positive shock to consumer and business confidence by doing a bit more than people were expecting\".Last week, the Australian Bureau of Statistics released figures showing the annual inflation rate to March was 1.6%, down sharply from 3.1% a year earlier. The reserve bank's target inflation rate for the year is 2% to 3%.The bank cited the inflation data and a subdued housing market as reasons behind its decision. Stevens also noted slowing growth in the world economy, singling out the more moderate pace of growth in China and continuing tough conditions in Europe.Sales of new homes fell to their lowest level in more than a decade in March, dropping 9.4% from a month earlier, the nation's Housing Industry Association said on Monday. Housing prices in the country's capital cities are down 4.5% from the same period a year ago, the statistics bureau reported.The housing association's chief economist, Harley Dale, had called for the bank to cut rates by half a percentage point.\"The Bank needs to send a clear signal that it is back on the case of assisting an economy that is clearly weaker than it anticipated in 2012,\" Dale said.", "tags": ["Interest rates", "Australia news", "Economics", "Business", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Mining"], "title": "Australia cuts interest rates as economy slows"},{"date": "2012-06-29T10:51:56Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia's controversial carbon tax comes into effect on Sunday after years of heated debate that has divided public opinion and driven the Labor government to a 40-year low in opinion polls.Under the new legislation, around 300 businesses will pay a fixed price of $AUD23/tonne for carbon emissions until 2015, when the market will set the price. Agriculture is exempt and trade-exposed industries like steel and aluminium will receive compensation of up to 94.5% on the price of permits.The government's target is to reduce emissions by 5% by 2020 and 80% by 2050 on 2000 levels.For prime minister, Julia Gillard, the carbon tax is the centrepiece of the country's \"clean energy future\". It's also the issue that will, in all likelihood, define her premiership and has been largely responsible for pushing her disapproval rating among voters to 60%.The conservative opposition says the tax will be a \"wrecking ball through the economy\".\"There is not a single problem in this country which is going to be helped by the carbon tax and all of our economic difficulties will be made worse by the carbon tax,\" said conservative opposition leader, Tony Abbott, on Friday.Abbott, a climate sceptic, has promised to repeal the tax if he's elected next year. It's created considerable uncertainty, particularly in the business community.\"The questions around whether the scheme will be here in two years' time has stifled investment certainty,\" said Elisa de Wit, head of climate change at law firm Norton Rose. She says companies are doing what they have to in order to comply with the tax, but many have reservations about investing too far into the future.The chief executive of the Climate Institute, John Connor, says the debate over pricing carbon has been heavily politicised, with a \"massive focus on cost of living, most of which is hyperinflated.\"\"It was always going to be a difficult debate because we are a high-carbon economy [Australia is the world's biggest exporter of black coal for electricity generation and iron ore], but it's been made much harder by the partisan debate and by shameless scaremongering about cost of living from some in politics and in business,\" he said.The Treasury estimates the carbon tax will add about 0.7% to consumer prices in 2012-13. To cushion the impact of price increases being passed on to consumers, the government has put in place a $AUD15bn compensation package over the first four years, that will be delivered in the form of tax cuts and welfare and pension increases. It estimates that in some cases, those on the lowest incomes will receive compensation greater than the impact of the tax.But none of this has shifted public opinion. A poll in early June showed only 37% of people were in favour of the carbon tax, with 59% against it. When Gillard was elected two years ago, the community divide on whether to put a price on carbon was roughly even.Much of the change in sentiment is due to her own change of heart on the tax. On the eve of her election victory in 2010, she promised there would be no carbon tax under a government she led. Subsequently, the reality of trying to establish a minority government in a hung parliament meant the tax became policy, after a deal with the Greens. The opposition has framed the debate around her volte face ever since and would win in a landslide if an election were held today.Australians generate more carbon pollution per head than any other developed country. With a population of 22 million, Australia is responsible for 1.5% for global greenhouse gas emissions. Britain, by comparison, with nearly three times the population, produces just 1.7%.", "tags": ["Carbon tax", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Environment", "Julia Gillard", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Business", "Australian politics"], "title": "Uncertainty hangs over Australia on eve of carbon tax introduction"},{"date": "2012-06-21T03:54:42Z", "country": "australia", "content": "An Australian judge has fined Apple A$2.25m for misleading customers that its latest iPad is compatible with 4G broadband internet.Justice Mordy Bromberg of the federal court ruled Apple misled the public for two months of 2012 with claims in its advertising wrongly implying that the \"iPad with WiFi + 4G,\" could connect directly to the mobile data network operated in Australia by Telstra.Bromberg fined Apple A$2.25m (\u00a31.45m/US$2.29m) and ordered it pay A$300,000 in costs for contravening consumer law.Apple admitted to the misleading advertising.The same \"iPad with WiFi + 4G\" advertising campaign was used worldwide, the judgment said.\"Apple's desire for global uniformity was given a greater priority than the need to ensure compliance with the Australian consumer law,\" the judge said. \"Conduct of that kind is serious and unacceptable.\"The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) took legal action against Apple in March after it rolled out the first wave of new iPad tablets in the Australian market.The court had determined Apple had implied \"that an iPad with WiFi + 4G could connect directly to the Telstra LTE mobile data network in Australia, which it could not do\", the ACCC said. Apple had \"engaged in conduct that was liable to mislead the public\".Apple had already promised to email all buyers of its new iPad in Australia to offer them a refund and agreed to post warnings that its new iPad \"is not compatible with current Australian 4G LTE networks and WiMAX networks\".Telstra's 4G network in Australia uses a different frequency from the new iPad.", "tags": ["iPad", "Apple", "Australia news", "Consumer rights", "World news", "4G"], "title": "Apple fined $2.25m in Australia for misleading iPad 4G advertising"},{"date": "2012-09-27T23:22:15Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The body of an Irishwoman missing in Australia has been found and a man has been charged with her rape and murder, police have confirmed.Adrian Bayley from the Coburg suburb of Melbourne was remanded in custody to appear before the city's magistrates court.He is charged with raping and killing Jill Meagher who had been missing since last week. The missing woman's body was located in an area of Melbourne called Gisborne Stouth at about 1.45am local time (4.45pm GMT).The 29-year-old woman, who was originally from Drogheda, county Louth, disappeared in the early hours of Saturday morning in the Brunswick area of the city.She had left a local pub and was on her way home to her apartment but never arrived.Melbourne police released CCTV images of her taken minutes before her disappearance and appealed for six people seen in the video to come forward. The handbag she is seen carrying in the footage was found in a nearby lane on Monday morning and police believe it may have been planted there.The family of Jill Meagher released a statement after her body was discovered. Her uncle Michael McKeon, said: \"We are devastated. We are heartbroken. She was the first grand-child my mother had and her aunts, uncles and cousins are powerless to describe their loss.\"He added: \"There are no words to describe how we feel at what has happened. We had hope yesterday when there was no evidence of foul play but when the man in the CCTV footage was arrested we feared the worst.\"", "tags": ["Ireland", "World news", "Australia news", "Crime - Australia"], "title": "Body of missing Irishwoman found in Australia"},{"date": "2012-09-27T23:22:15Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The body of an Irishwoman missing in Australia has been found and a man has been charged with her rape and murder, police have confirmed.Adrian Bayley from the Coburg suburb of Melbourne was remanded in custody to appear before the city's magistrates court.He is charged with raping and killing Jill Meagher who had been missing since last week. The missing woman's body was located in an area of Melbourne called Gisborne Stouth at about 1.45am local time (4.45pm GMT).The 29-year-old woman, who was originally from Drogheda, county Louth, disappeared in the early hours of Saturday morning in the Brunswick area of the city.She had left a local pub and was on her way home to her apartment but never arrived.Melbourne police released CCTV images of her taken minutes before her disappearance and appealed for six people seen in the video to come forward. The handbag she is seen carrying in the footage was found in a nearby lane on Monday morning and police believe it may have been planted there.The family of Jill Meagher released a statement after her body was discovered. Her uncle Michael McKeon, said: \"We are devastated. We are heartbroken. She was the first grand-child my mother had and her aunts, uncles and cousins are powerless to describe their loss.\"He added: \"There are no words to describe how we feel at what has happened. We had hope yesterday when there was no evidence of foul play but when the man in the CCTV footage was arrested we feared the worst.\"", "tags": ["Ireland", "World news", "Australia news", "Crime - Australia"], "title": "Body of missing Irishwoman found in Australia"},{"date": "2012-09-10T13:11:36Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The National Theatre's smash hit One Man, Two Guvnors will swap Brighton pier for Bondi beach when it embarks on a tour of Australia and east Asia next year.Having just finished a successful five months on Broadway, Nicholas Hytner's production will visit major festivals in Hong Kong, Adelaide and Auckland from February, before playing six-week runs in each of Australia's two cultural capitals, Sydney and Melbourne. The transfer might require playwright Richard Bean to tinker with the script a second time, to smooth some of the particularly British terminology for a new audience.With James Corden due to film his latest self-penned BBC sitcom, The Wrong Man, in early 2013, the cast will be led by Owain Arthur. Corden's former understudy has played Francis Henshall in the West End since March to great acclaim.Arthur joins a starry lineup for Cate Blanchett's final season as co-artistic director of Sydney Theatre Company, which will bring Hugo Weaving, Isabelle Huppert, Richard Roxborough and comedian Tim Minchin to the main stage.Blanchett will star in a \"fresh exploration\" of Jean Genet's The Maids, adapted by her husband, Andrew Upton, who will continue to run the company from 2014, and director Benedict Andrews. She and French actor Huppert, star of The Piano Teacher, will play two sisters repeatedly enacting the murder of their mistress.It will be the third time Blanchett has collaborated with Andrews, whose Three Sisters is currently at the Young Vic in London, following The War of the Roses and Gross und Klein (Big and Small), seen at London's Barbican earlier this year.Minchin, who makes his UK theatre debut this month in Jesus Christ Superstar, will return to Australia next summer for Tom Stoppard's Rosencrantz and Guildernstern Are Dead. The comedian, who also wrote the music for Matilda: The Musical, started his career acting in Australia, where he played Amadeus and Hamlet for the Perth Theatre Company. He will star alongside playwright Toby Schmitz, whose latest play is titled I Want to Sleep With Tom Stoppard.The season ends with Waiting for Godot next winter, starring Weaving as Vladimir and Moulin Rouge star Roxborough as Estragon. Tam\u00e1s Ascher, who directed Blanchett in the acclaimed Uncle Vanya that has just finished at New York's Lincoln Centre, will direct.Blanchett and Upton took over at Sydney Theatre Company in 2009 and announced their departure in January. In a joint statement, the pair described how the season \"had a lot of our passions and favourite artists and is brimming with some of the relationships and partnerships that have inspired us during the last five years\".Their final joint season also includes new productions of Romeo and Juliet, Mrs Warren's Profession and Sophie Treadwell's Machinal, as well as a collaboration with LIFT regulars Back to Back Theatre.", "tags": ["One Man", " Two Guvnors", "Theatre", "Stage", "James Corden", "Culture", "Nicholas Hytner", "Media", "Richard Bean", "Cate Blanchett", "Film", "Isabelle Huppert", "Tim Minchin", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Australia holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Travel", "Sydney holidays", "Melbourne holidays"], "title": "One Man, Two Guvnors to tour Australia"},{"date": "2012-09-27T23:22:15Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The body of an Irishwoman missing in Australia has been found and a man has been charged with her rape and murder, police have confirmed.Adrian Bayley from the Coburg suburb of Melbourne was remanded in custody to appear before the city's magistrates court.He is charged with raping and killing Jill Meagher who had been missing since last week. The missing woman's body was located in an area of Melbourne called Gisborne Stouth at about 1.45am local time (4.45pm GMT).The 29-year-old woman, who was originally from Drogheda, county Louth, disappeared in the early hours of Saturday morning in the Brunswick area of the city.She had left a local pub and was on her way home to her apartment but never arrived.Melbourne police released CCTV images of her taken minutes before her disappearance and appealed for six people seen in the video to come forward. The handbag she is seen carrying in the footage was found in a nearby lane on Monday morning and police believe it may have been planted there.The family of Jill Meagher released a statement after her body was discovered. Her uncle Michael McKeon, said: \"We are devastated. We are heartbroken. She was the first grand-child my mother had and her aunts, uncles and cousins are powerless to describe their loss.\"He added: \"There are no words to describe how we feel at what has happened. We had hope yesterday when there was no evidence of foul play but when the man in the CCTV footage was arrested we feared the worst.\"", "tags": ["Ireland", "World news", "Australia news", "Crime - Australia"], "title": "Body of missing Irishwoman found in Australia"},{"date": "2012-09-10T13:11:36Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The National Theatre's smash hit One Man, Two Guvnors will swap Brighton pier for Bondi beach when it embarks on a tour of Australia and east Asia next year.Having just finished a successful five months on Broadway, Nicholas Hytner's production will visit major festivals in Hong Kong, Adelaide and Auckland from February, before playing six-week runs in each of Australia's two cultural capitals, Sydney and Melbourne. The transfer might require playwright Richard Bean to tinker with the script a second time, to smooth some of the particularly British terminology for a new audience.With James Corden due to film his latest self-penned BBC sitcom, The Wrong Man, in early 2013, the cast will be led by Owain Arthur. Corden's former understudy has played Francis Henshall in the West End since March to great acclaim.Arthur joins a starry lineup for Cate Blanchett's final season as co-artistic director of Sydney Theatre Company, which will bring Hugo Weaving, Isabelle Huppert, Richard Roxborough and comedian Tim Minchin to the main stage.Blanchett will star in a \"fresh exploration\" of Jean Genet's The Maids, adapted by her husband, Andrew Upton, who will continue to run the company from 2014, and director Benedict Andrews. She and French actor Huppert, star of The Piano Teacher, will play two sisters repeatedly enacting the murder of their mistress.It will be the third time Blanchett has collaborated with Andrews, whose Three Sisters is currently at the Young Vic in London, following The War of the Roses and Gross und Klein (Big and Small), seen at London's Barbican earlier this year.Minchin, who makes his UK theatre debut this month in Jesus Christ Superstar, will return to Australia next summer for Tom Stoppard's Rosencrantz and Guildernstern Are Dead. The comedian, who also wrote the music for Matilda: The Musical, started his career acting in Australia, where he played Amadeus and Hamlet for the Perth Theatre Company. He will star alongside playwright Toby Schmitz, whose latest play is titled I Want to Sleep With Tom Stoppard.The season ends with Waiting for Godot next winter, starring Weaving as Vladimir and Moulin Rouge star Roxborough as Estragon. Tam\u00e1s Ascher, who directed Blanchett in the acclaimed Uncle Vanya that has just finished at New York's Lincoln Centre, will direct.Blanchett and Upton took over at Sydney Theatre Company in 2009 and announced their departure in January. In a joint statement, the pair described how the season \"had a lot of our passions and favourite artists and is brimming with some of the relationships and partnerships that have inspired us during the last five years\".Their final joint season also includes new productions of Romeo and Juliet, Mrs Warren's Profession and Sophie Treadwell's Machinal, as well as a collaboration with LIFT regulars Back to Back Theatre.", "tags": ["One Man", " Two Guvnors", "Theatre", "Stage", "James Corden", "Culture", "Nicholas Hytner", "Media", "Richard Bean", "Cate Blanchett", "Film", "Isabelle Huppert", "Tim Minchin", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Australia holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Travel", "Sydney holidays", "Melbourne holidays"], "title": "One Man, Two Guvnors to tour Australia"},{"date": "2012-09-12T09:49:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A thriving industry depends on a steady intake of new talent.For that reason, the Australian government's Resourcing the Future report released in 2011 was cause for concern. The report predicted a major and growing shortfall of qualified tradespeople across the Australian construction, gas and mining industries, unless employers acted quickly to bridge the skills gap.The findings of the report came as no surprise to Debbie Butler from Anglo American's metallurgical coal business. As principal of operations training in the HR team in Brisbane, Debbie had already been working on her own study of Anglo American's trade's workforce, and identified a low intake of apprentices.But Debbie also saw an opportunity. As the government's needs dovetailed with Anglo American's, the timing was ideal to join forces to develop new and innovative ways to bring fresh talent into the business.Under her own initiative, Debbie has been working with the National Apprenticeships Steering Committee to design an Advanced Entry Apprenticeship Program. The programme recognises workers' existing experience and equips them with the skills they need to attain full trade qualifications in just 18 months (standard apprenticeships take four years).Twenty-five apprentices are currently taking part in the programme, each selected after a painstaking process to find exceptional talent.The programme would not have been possible without Debbie's dedication to partnership. She has worked tirelessly with government, industry bodies and internal stakeholders, allying concerns and adding her voice to steering committee forums.\"The programme could not have got off the ground if it wasn't for Debbie's efforts in partnering industry bodies, above and beyond her normal workload,\" says David Diamond, regional head human resources. \"Her enthusiasm for providing people with an opportunity to gain qualifications and enter the resources industry is inspiring.\"Copy on this page is provided by Anglo American, sponsor of the social impact hub", "tags": ["anglo american partner zone", "Guardian sustainable business"], "title": "Collaborative approach uncovers hidden talent in Australia"},{"date": "2012-11-08T12:14:29Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last time, we went to America; the next stop on our crosswording journey is Australia.Our guide is David Astle. David sets for the Age and the Sydney Morning Herald, appears as \"Mr Dictionary\" on the Australian Countdown and has written a book about crosswords called Puzzled, a mixture of memoir and how-to which discusses this very blog at one point in its sweep of the cryptic landscape.Hello, David. You got into crosswords by sending a jumbo tribute puzzle to the editor of the Sydney Morning Herald. Why the Herald?I was in my late teens, still in school, and the Herald was about to reach its 10,000th puzzle. The number suggests how cherished the crossword had become to Sydney life over several generations, even within my own family. I longed to be part of the party, so to speak. I toasted the milestone in the guise of a puzzle, and hoped the gesture might be seen as the scribblings of a future setter. I revelled in the prospect of my own clues delighting and confounding my fellow citizens; I still do.Melbourne and Sydney are the Tom and Jerry of geography. Athens and Sparta; Bloods and Crips - we love to hate each other, though more as siblings indulging in a fond sledge. The crossword is the same in both papers as Fairfax Media owns both mastheads and there is fiery debate among solvers when too much Sydney or too little Melbourne enters the grid. For example, when I made a crossword in which every across clue was an Australian beach, Sydney solvers resented the Victorian bias, going so far as to say a Victorian beach is not a real beach, since some lack surf.Perhaps in the past. The reason is twofold. Thirty years ago, the Herald's principal setter was LB, the alias of Lindsey Browne, a cricket fanatic and a wily off-spinner in his day. LB ensured there was plenty of cricket lore running through his canon. The second reason: Australia was quite handy back then. Do the names Thommo and Lillee ring a bell? Not bad, eh? Warney and McGrath were quite useful too. But since then your mob has learned how to play the game properly and pound us into the dirt on a regular basis, so we setters tend to look elsewhere for our thematic jollies.I blame English. It's a glorious mongrel. Linguist David Crystal calls it the most hospitable language on the planet, as we invite influences from everywhere. That alone lends our mother tongue a richness and lexical density that few can rival. Just look at an Italian crossword and you'll see the curse of having so few words ending in consonants. Add to this the abundant nuance pervading English: the rife idiom, the wealth of vocab, the regional fluctuations and how words have shifted in their jackets across time. It's a perfect storm for wordplay.Guardian readers may not realise that I was Susie Dent for two years. Let me rephrase that: I was the dictionary bloke on Letters and Numbers, the Aussie version of Countdown. We're currently in hiatus, so there's more time to write books. Our studio tome was the Macquarie Dictionary. This rejoices in the Aussie tongue - swaggie slang, Anzac stuff, our -IE obsession as in CROSSIE and PREZZIE plus our general irreverence - and embraces the bulk of UK and US listings. The Herald now uses Oxford as its house dictionary, but Macquarie is the fallback for many setters and solvers.I'm still staggered the Times puzzles remain anonymous: so often they are peppered with timeless clues, yet we can't credit a certain compiler. At least the Guardian editor has the good sense to tag all culprits. In that regard I relish many in your stable: to name three, Paul, Brummie and the man to instil me with an innovative spirit, Araucaria. But I'm equally thrilled to see the arrival of two stylists: Puck and Picaroon. Likewise I lament the passing of two masters, Taupi and Fawley.Elsewhere I adore the FT's Loroso, whose clues are so deceptively concise. I'm a rusted-on fan of the best in US crosswords. Quick in name only, the premium American puzzle has an exquisite interlock, or maverick theme. Let me recommend Brendan Emmett Quigley and Matt Gaffney, both rebels with a fiendish cause.Auster was the late Shirley O'Brien, a warmhearted wordsmith based in Brisbane. While I chatted with Shirley on half a dozen occasions on the phone, I never had the pleasure of meeting her. Elsewhere, social media is a godsend. Now solvers can assemble in places like this one or The DA Trippers to celebrate the week's enigmas. The same channels make it easier for solvers to contact setters and editors. The Australian Crossword Club is a vital body of puzzle fans and various compilers and my own website is a hatchery of clue-crafting and general verbal mischief. But we setters seldom congregate as a guild. We mainly keep in touch through each other's creations.\"Translating\" Puzzled for the UK market, I had to drop several words that were deemed too parochial by my English editors. Apparently BLUE doesn't mean a fight in Burton-on-Trent, nor does DO mean swindle, duff, or bungle. By the same token, I'm told you've never heard of BOGAN (a unsophisticated person), BOOFHEAD (fool), JACKEROO (a young farm hand) or CHOC-TOPS (chocolate-coated scoops of ice-cream). And no, choc-ice is not even close. You should try the difference some time.For over-Australian clues, try these:Encroach on Prue's hot friend? (7)750ml beer bottle sustained passion (8)Medic and paramedic tuck into feast dish (9)Wily forward AOK with angles, perhaps (4,5)Many thanks to David. The answers to those Aussie clues are, he tells me: INTRUDE (Kath & Kim reference); LONGNECK; DREAMBOAT (ambo is short for ambulance officer) and GOAL SNEAK (Australian Rules slang). I'm going to get me a copy of Macquarie and try some upside-down solving.", "tags": ["Crosswords", "Life and style", "Australia news"], "title": "Crossword blog: cryptics in Australia"},{"date": "2012-11-08T12:14:29Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last time, we went to America; the next stop on our crosswording journey is Australia.Our guide is David Astle. David sets for the Age and the Sydney Morning Herald, appears as \"Mr Dictionary\" on the Australian Countdown and has written a book about crosswords called Puzzled, a mixture of memoir and how-to which discusses this very blog at one point in its sweep of the cryptic landscape.Hello, David. You got into crosswords by sending a jumbo tribute puzzle to the editor of the Sydney Morning Herald. Why the Herald?I was in my late teens, still in school, and the Herald was about to reach its 10,000th puzzle. The number suggests how cherished the crossword had become to Sydney life over several generations, even within my own family. I longed to be part of the party, so to speak. I toasted the milestone in the guise of a puzzle, and hoped the gesture might be seen as the scribblings of a future setter. I revelled in the prospect of my own clues delighting and confounding my fellow citizens; I still do.Melbourne and Sydney are the Tom and Jerry of geography. Athens and Sparta; Bloods and Crips - we love to hate each other, though more as siblings indulging in a fond sledge. The crossword is the same in both papers as Fairfax Media owns both mastheads and there is fiery debate among solvers when too much Sydney or too little Melbourne enters the grid. For example, when I made a crossword in which every across clue was an Australian beach, Sydney solvers resented the Victorian bias, going so far as to say a Victorian beach is not a real beach, since some lack surf.Perhaps in the past. The reason is twofold. Thirty years ago, the Herald's principal setter was LB, the alias of Lindsey Browne, a cricket fanatic and a wily off-spinner in his day. LB ensured there was plenty of cricket lore running through his canon. The second reason: Australia was quite handy back then. Do the names Thommo and Lillee ring a bell? Not bad, eh? Warney and McGrath were quite useful too. But since then your mob has learned how to play the game properly and pound us into the dirt on a regular basis, so we setters tend to look elsewhere for our thematic jollies.I blame English. It's a glorious mongrel. Linguist David Crystal calls it the most hospitable language on the planet, as we invite influences from everywhere. That alone lends our mother tongue a richness and lexical density that few can rival. Just look at an Italian crossword and you'll see the curse of having so few words ending in consonants. Add to this the abundant nuance pervading English: the rife idiom, the wealth of vocab, the regional fluctuations and how words have shifted in their jackets across time. It's a perfect storm for wordplay.Guardian readers may not realise that I was Susie Dent for two years. Let me rephrase that: I was the dictionary bloke on Letters and Numbers, the Aussie version of Countdown. We're currently in hiatus, so there's more time to write books. Our studio tome was the Macquarie Dictionary. This rejoices in the Aussie tongue - swaggie slang, Anzac stuff, our -IE obsession as in CROSSIE and PREZZIE plus our general irreverence - and embraces the bulk of UK and US listings. The Herald now uses Oxford as its house dictionary, but Macquarie is the fallback for many setters and solvers.I'm still staggered the Times puzzles remain anonymous: so often they are peppered with timeless clues, yet we can't credit a certain compiler. At least the Guardian editor has the good sense to tag all culprits. In that regard I relish many in your stable: to name three, Paul, Brummie and the man to instil me with an innovative spirit, Araucaria. But I'm equally thrilled to see the arrival of two stylists: Puck and Picaroon. Likewise I lament the passing of two masters, Taupi and Fawley.Elsewhere I adore the FT's Loroso, whose clues are so deceptively concise. I'm a rusted-on fan of the best in US crosswords. Quick in name only, the premium American puzzle has an exquisite interlock, or maverick theme. Let me recommend Brendan Emmett Quigley and Matt Gaffney, both rebels with a fiendish cause.Auster was the late Shirley O'Brien, a warmhearted wordsmith based in Brisbane. While I chatted with Shirley on half a dozen occasions on the phone, I never had the pleasure of meeting her. Elsewhere, social media is a godsend. Now solvers can assemble in places like this one or The DA Trippers to celebrate the week's enigmas. The same channels make it easier for solvers to contact setters and editors. The Australian Crossword Club is a vital body of puzzle fans and various compilers and my own website is a hatchery of clue-crafting and general verbal mischief. But we setters seldom congregate as a guild. We mainly keep in touch through each other's creations.\"Translating\" Puzzled for the UK market, I had to drop several words that were deemed too parochial by my English editors. Apparently BLUE doesn't mean a fight in Burton-on-Trent, nor does DO mean swindle, duff, or bungle. By the same token, I'm told you've never heard of BOGAN (a unsophisticated person), BOOFHEAD (fool), JACKEROO (a young farm hand) or CHOC-TOPS (chocolate-coated scoops of ice-cream). And no, choc-ice is not even close. You should try the difference some time.For over-Australian clues, try these:Encroach on Prue's hot friend? (7)750ml beer bottle sustained passion (8)Medic and paramedic tuck into feast dish (9)Wily forward AOK with angles, perhaps (4,5)Many thanks to David. The answers to those Aussie clues are, he tells me: INTRUDE (Kath & Kim reference); LONGNECK; DREAMBOAT (ambo is short for ambulance officer) and GOAL SNEAK (Australian Rules slang). I'm going to get me a copy of Macquarie and try some upside-down solving.", "tags": ["Crosswords", "Life and style", "Australia news"], "title": "Crossword blog: cryptics in Australia"},{"date": "2012-11-30T08:45:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It's no wonder a country offering more than 21,000 miles of incredible coastline, sub-topical rainforests and the Great Barrier Reef is a popular choice for expat Britons (just don't mention it's also home to a variety of dangerous animals, including the deadly venomous brown snake).Its history \u2013 Australia was claimed as a British territory in 1829 following Captain James Cook's arrival in 1770 \u2013 means the established link between Brits and Aussies remains strong, albeit with a healthy dose of banter.While Sydney may seem the obvious choice for Brits, a surprising number head to Perth in western Australia where a mining boom has led to speedy economic expansion and the need for a larger workforce. Brisbane in Queensland is also a popular choice, as it offers all the benefits of the city plus the stunning Gold Coast.Australia's population of just 22 million ensures there is plenty of open space to pursue a healthy outdoors lifestyle in the sixth largest country in the world; while overseas demand for its diverse natural resources means it experienced just one quarter of negative growth during the recent global economic meltdown. \"She'll be apples,\" as Australians might say.There are a variety of visas available for people who wish to move to Australia permanently. The main categories are: Skilled Independent Migration (for those who are not sponsored, under 50, and with qualifications relevant to occupations on Australia's \"skilled occupation list\". This currently includes engineers, accountants, actuaries, vets, special needs teachers, dentists and electricians); Employer Nomination Scheme (for people sponsored by an overseas employer); and Business Migration (for entrepreneurial businesspeople and investors).Australia also offers retirement visas for people aged 55 or older, as long as they have no dependants (excluding a partner), are self-supported and are able to make \"a significant long-term financial investment in Australia.\" This means they must have assets of at least $750,000 (\u00a3484,000), or $500,000 (\u00a3323,000) for those settling in regional Australia. They must also have access to a minimum net income of $65,000 (\u00a342,000), which can be pension income.Use the Department of Immigration's Visa Wizard to help you find the right visa.The good news is you will be able to claim your UK state pension while in Australia. The bad news is there is no social security agreement between Australia and the UK, so your pension will be frozen at the value it was when you moved to Australia. The UK government has opened discussions with Australia regarding the frozen pensions policy, so this may change in the near future.There are no requirements for vaccinations unless you're coming from a country with a risk of yellow fever, in which case you'll have to show you've been vaccinated against that, but health advice suggests standard vaccines against the following would be wise: Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Japanese encephalitis, rabies, tetanus.What airport will you arrive at? This depends on where you're heading. While most people will land at Sydney, other destinations could be Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Cairns, Canberra or under-explored Darwin.Local currency The Australian dollar. On 12 November 2012 AUS$1 was worth 65p and \u00a31 was worth AUS$1.53.How do you spot a cab? There is no iconic cab in Australia, though Brisbane has a lot of yellow cabs \u2013 a hangover from the 1920s when it imported yellow taxis from the US.Price of a hotel room The four-star Holiday Inn at Potts Point, Sydney, costs about \u00a3150 a night in November; while Darwin's four-star Holiday Inn Esplanade costs \u00a3105 a night. Hotels.com put the average price at \u00a3115 in the first half of 2012.Price of a house Houses are expensive in city centres. Even in a Sydney suburb a three-bed home can cost $1m+. According to Numbeo, the price per square metre for an apartment in Sydney city centre is $10,000, dropping to $6,000 in the suburbs.Price of a pint of milk A litre of milk is $1.50-$2.What language do most people speak? English, though some Brits might amusingly say that Australian is English with as many words abbreviated as possible or with \"o\" at the end.What tax will you pay? The first $18,200 of annual income is free from tax, but then rates rise quite steeply. Income between $18,201 and $37,000 is taxed at 19%, while income above $37,000 is taxed at 32.5%. Income above $80,000 up to $180,000 is taxed at 37%; and income above $180,000 is taxed at 45%.Residents are taxed on their worldwide income, including salary and dividends. You are an Australian resident for tax purposes if you have been in the country continuously for six months or more \u2013 those who are on a temporary resident's visa are considered to be residents for tax purposes.How long will it take to send a letter home? About a week.\u2022 In 1954 Bob Hawke \"sculled\" 2.5 pints of beer in 11 seconds to make it into the Guinness Book of Records \u2013 he later became prime minister.\u2022 Australia is home to six of the top 10 deadliest snakes in the world.\u2022 The box jellyfish is considered the world's most venomous marine creature and has killed more people in Australia than stonefish, sharks and crocodiles combined.\u2022 The kangaroo and the emu were chosen to feature on the Australian coat of arms because they cannot walk backwards \u2013 they represent a nation moving forward.\u2022 The Australian kangaroo industry estimates it exports kangaroo meat to more than 55 countries, with the EU and Russia the most significant markets.The Eldridge family \u2013 Tamera, Steve, Lily and Grace \u2013 moved to Sydney in 2005, mainly for the lifestyle. \"We wanted to experience life in another country and we wanted an adventure,\" Tamera explains. With a background in marketing when she lived in London, Tamera is now senior marketing manager at the University of New South Wales, while Steve, who is originally from Manchester, is general manager of the Red Cross Blood Service in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory.\"We love the weather and outdoors lifestyle \u2013 and being able to go to the beach in a lunch break,\" Tamera says of their adopted home. \"The beautiful scenery and Sydney harbour is hard to beat. Sydney is a great city too, always something to do whether sporting, cultural, social or just going on a ferry. It's also been good for both our careers, with opportunities that would not have been as available in the UK.\"She says it is easy to meet other expats, but not just Brits: \"A huge amount of people here aren't from Sydney. We have friends from Canada, Hong Kong, the US, Ireland, Scotland, England, India, Lebanon, New Zealand, as well as from all over Australia.\"Her main advice for potential migrants to Australia is to be prepared to take time to settle in and be realistic about it. \"It takes at least a year to start to feel at home. Stick with it, and be aware you will miss the oddest things about the UK. Like Tesco. And the NHS.\"\u2022 If you're thinking of moving overseas why not enter our competition: we are offering \u00a3500 of travel vouchers to help you make the move.\u2022 Are you a UK expat in Australia? We want to see the view from your window. You can share it with us by adding it to our Flickr group tagged \"Australia\". Our selected favourites will appear in a gallery on guardian.co.uk/money.\u2022 Share your tips for expat newcomers to Australia in the comments section. ", "tags": ["Moving overseas", "Expat finance", "Money"], "title": "A UK expat's guide to Australia"},{"date": "2012-11-08T12:14:29Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last time, we went to America; the next stop on our crosswording journey is Australia.Our guide is David Astle. David sets for the Age and the Sydney Morning Herald, appears as \"Mr Dictionary\" on the Australian Countdown and has written a book about crosswords called Puzzled, a mixture of memoir and how-to which discusses this very blog at one point in its sweep of the cryptic landscape.Hello, David. You got into crosswords by sending a jumbo tribute puzzle to the editor of the Sydney Morning Herald. Why the Herald?I was in my late teens, still in school, and the Herald was about to reach its 10,000th puzzle. The number suggests how cherished the crossword had become to Sydney life over several generations, even within my own family. I longed to be part of the party, so to speak. I toasted the milestone in the guise of a puzzle, and hoped the gesture might be seen as the scribblings of a future setter. I revelled in the prospect of my own clues delighting and confounding my fellow citizens; I still do.Melbourne and Sydney are the Tom and Jerry of geography. Athens and Sparta; Bloods and Crips - we love to hate each other, though more as siblings indulging in a fond sledge. The crossword is the same in both papers as Fairfax Media owns both mastheads and there is fiery debate among solvers when too much Sydney or too little Melbourne enters the grid. For example, when I made a crossword in which every across clue was an Australian beach, Sydney solvers resented the Victorian bias, going so far as to say a Victorian beach is not a real beach, since some lack surf.Perhaps in the past. The reason is twofold. Thirty years ago, the Herald's principal setter was LB, the alias of Lindsey Browne, a cricket fanatic and a wily off-spinner in his day. LB ensured there was plenty of cricket lore running through his canon. The second reason: Australia was quite handy back then. Do the names Thommo and Lillee ring a bell? Not bad, eh? Warney and McGrath were quite useful too. But since then your mob has learned how to play the game properly and pound us into the dirt on a regular basis, so we setters tend to look elsewhere for our thematic jollies.I blame English. It's a glorious mongrel. Linguist David Crystal calls it the most hospitable language on the planet, as we invite influences from everywhere. That alone lends our mother tongue a richness and lexical density that few can rival. Just look at an Italian crossword and you'll see the curse of having so few words ending in consonants. Add to this the abundant nuance pervading English: the rife idiom, the wealth of vocab, the regional fluctuations and how words have shifted in their jackets across time. It's a perfect storm for wordplay.Guardian readers may not realise that I was Susie Dent for two years. Let me rephrase that: I was the dictionary bloke on Letters and Numbers, the Aussie version of Countdown. We're currently in hiatus, so there's more time to write books. Our studio tome was the Macquarie Dictionary. This rejoices in the Aussie tongue - swaggie slang, Anzac stuff, our -IE obsession as in CROSSIE and PREZZIE plus our general irreverence - and embraces the bulk of UK and US listings. The Herald now uses Oxford as its house dictionary, but Macquarie is the fallback for many setters and solvers.I'm still staggered the Times puzzles remain anonymous: so often they are peppered with timeless clues, yet we can't credit a certain compiler. At least the Guardian editor has the good sense to tag all culprits. In that regard I relish many in your stable: to name three, Paul, Brummie and the man to instil me with an innovative spirit, Araucaria. But I'm equally thrilled to see the arrival of two stylists: Puck and Picaroon. Likewise I lament the passing of two masters, Taupi and Fawley.Elsewhere I adore the FT's Loroso, whose clues are so deceptively concise. I'm a rusted-on fan of the best in US crosswords. Quick in name only, the premium American puzzle has an exquisite interlock, or maverick theme. Let me recommend Brendan Emmett Quigley and Matt Gaffney, both rebels with a fiendish cause.Auster was the late Shirley O'Brien, a warmhearted wordsmith based in Brisbane. While I chatted with Shirley on half a dozen occasions on the phone, I never had the pleasure of meeting her. Elsewhere, social media is a godsend. Now solvers can assemble in places like this one or The DA Trippers to celebrate the week's enigmas. The same channels make it easier for solvers to contact setters and editors. The Australian Crossword Club is a vital body of puzzle fans and various compilers and my own website is a hatchery of clue-crafting and general verbal mischief. But we setters seldom congregate as a guild. We mainly keep in touch through each other's creations.\"Translating\" Puzzled for the UK market, I had to drop several words that were deemed too parochial by my English editors. Apparently BLUE doesn't mean a fight in Burton-on-Trent, nor does DO mean swindle, duff, or bungle. By the same token, I'm told you've never heard of BOGAN (a unsophisticated person), BOOFHEAD (fool), JACKEROO (a young farm hand) or CHOC-TOPS (chocolate-coated scoops of ice-cream). And no, choc-ice is not even close. You should try the difference some time.For over-Australian clues, try these:Encroach on Prue's hot friend? (7)750ml beer bottle sustained passion (8)Medic and paramedic tuck into feast dish (9)Wily forward AOK with angles, perhaps (4,5)Many thanks to David. The answers to those Aussie clues are, he tells me: INTRUDE (Kath & Kim reference); LONGNECK; DREAMBOAT (ambo is short for ambulance officer) and GOAL SNEAK (Australian Rules slang). I'm going to get me a copy of Macquarie and try some upside-down solving.", "tags": ["Crosswords", "Life and style", "Australia news"], "title": "Crossword blog: cryptics in Australia"},{"date": "2012-11-30T08:45:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It's no wonder a country offering more than 21,000 miles of incredible coastline, sub-topical rainforests and the Great Barrier Reef is a popular choice for expat Britons (just don't mention it's also home to a variety of dangerous animals, including the deadly venomous brown snake).Its history \u2013 Australia was claimed as a British territory in 1829 following Captain James Cook's arrival in 1770 \u2013 means the established link between Brits and Aussies remains strong, albeit with a healthy dose of banter.While Sydney may seem the obvious choice for Brits, a surprising number head to Perth in western Australia where a mining boom has led to speedy economic expansion and the need for a larger workforce. Brisbane in Queensland is also a popular choice, as it offers all the benefits of the city plus the stunning Gold Coast.Australia's population of just 22 million ensures there is plenty of open space to pursue a healthy outdoors lifestyle in the sixth largest country in the world; while overseas demand for its diverse natural resources means it experienced just one quarter of negative growth during the recent global economic meltdown. \"She'll be apples,\" as Australians might say.There are a variety of visas available for people who wish to move to Australia permanently. The main categories are: Skilled Independent Migration (for those who are not sponsored, under 50, and with qualifications relevant to occupations on Australia's \"skilled occupation list\". This currently includes engineers, accountants, actuaries, vets, special needs teachers, dentists and electricians); Employer Nomination Scheme (for people sponsored by an overseas employer); and Business Migration (for entrepreneurial businesspeople and investors).Australia also offers retirement visas for people aged 55 or older, as long as they have no dependants (excluding a partner), are self-supported and are able to make \"a significant long-term financial investment in Australia.\" This means they must have assets of at least $750,000 (\u00a3484,000), or $500,000 (\u00a3323,000) for those settling in regional Australia. They must also have access to a minimum net income of $65,000 (\u00a342,000), which can be pension income.Use the Department of Immigration's Visa Wizard to help you find the right visa.The good news is you will be able to claim your UK state pension while in Australia. The bad news is there is no social security agreement between Australia and the UK, so your pension will be frozen at the value it was when you moved to Australia. The UK government has opened discussions with Australia regarding the frozen pensions policy, so this may change in the near future.There are no requirements for vaccinations unless you're coming from a country with a risk of yellow fever, in which case you'll have to show you've been vaccinated against that, but health advice suggests standard vaccines against the following would be wise: Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Japanese encephalitis, rabies, tetanus.What airport will you arrive at? This depends on where you're heading. While most people will land at Sydney, other destinations could be Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, Cairns, Canberra or under-explored Darwin.Local currency The Australian dollar. On 12 November 2012 AUS$1 was worth 65p and \u00a31 was worth AUS$1.53.How do you spot a cab? There is no iconic cab in Australia, though Brisbane has a lot of yellow cabs \u2013 a hangover from the 1920s when it imported yellow taxis from the US.Price of a hotel room The four-star Holiday Inn at Potts Point, Sydney, costs about \u00a3150 a night in November; while Darwin's four-star Holiday Inn Esplanade costs \u00a3105 a night. Hotels.com put the average price at \u00a3115 in the first half of 2012.Price of a house Houses are expensive in city centres. Even in a Sydney suburb a three-bed home can cost $1m+. According to Numbeo, the price per square metre for an apartment in Sydney city centre is $10,000, dropping to $6,000 in the suburbs.Price of a pint of milk A litre of milk is $1.50-$2.What language do most people speak? English, though some Brits might amusingly say that Australian is English with as many words abbreviated as possible or with \"o\" at the end.What tax will you pay? The first $18,200 of annual income is free from tax, but then rates rise quite steeply. Income between $18,201 and $37,000 is taxed at 19%, while income above $37,000 is taxed at 32.5%. Income above $80,000 up to $180,000 is taxed at 37%; and income above $180,000 is taxed at 45%.Residents are taxed on their worldwide income, including salary and dividends. You are an Australian resident for tax purposes if you have been in the country continuously for six months or more \u2013 those who are on a temporary resident's visa are considered to be residents for tax purposes.How long will it take to send a letter home? About a week.\u2022 In 1954 Bob Hawke \"sculled\" 2.5 pints of beer in 11 seconds to make it into the Guinness Book of Records \u2013 he later became prime minister.\u2022 Australia is home to six of the top 10 deadliest snakes in the world.\u2022 The box jellyfish is considered the world's most venomous marine creature and has killed more people in Australia than stonefish, sharks and crocodiles combined.\u2022 The kangaroo and the emu were chosen to feature on the Australian coat of arms because they cannot walk backwards \u2013 they represent a nation moving forward.\u2022 The Australian kangaroo industry estimates it exports kangaroo meat to more than 55 countries, with the EU and Russia the most significant markets.The Eldridge family \u2013 Tamera, Steve, Lily and Grace \u2013 moved to Sydney in 2005, mainly for the lifestyle. \"We wanted to experience life in another country and we wanted an adventure,\" Tamera explains. With a background in marketing when she lived in London, Tamera is now senior marketing manager at the University of New South Wales, while Steve, who is originally from Manchester, is general manager of the Red Cross Blood Service in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory.\"We love the weather and outdoors lifestyle \u2013 and being able to go to the beach in a lunch break,\" Tamera says of their adopted home. \"The beautiful scenery and Sydney harbour is hard to beat. Sydney is a great city too, always something to do whether sporting, cultural, social or just going on a ferry. It's also been good for both our careers, with opportunities that would not have been as available in the UK.\"She says it is easy to meet other expats, but not just Brits: \"A huge amount of people here aren't from Sydney. We have friends from Canada, Hong Kong, the US, Ireland, Scotland, England, India, Lebanon, New Zealand, as well as from all over Australia.\"Her main advice for potential migrants to Australia is to be prepared to take time to settle in and be realistic about it. \"It takes at least a year to start to feel at home. Stick with it, and be aware you will miss the oddest things about the UK. Like Tesco. And the NHS.\"\u2022 If you're thinking of moving overseas why not enter our competition: we are offering \u00a3500 of travel vouchers to help you make the move.\u2022 Are you a UK expat in Australia? We want to see the view from your window. You can share it with us by adding it to our Flickr group tagged \"Australia\". Our selected favourites will appear in a gallery on guardian.co.uk/money.\u2022 Share your tips for expat newcomers to Australia in the comments section. ", "tags": ["Moving overseas", "Expat finance", "Money"], "title": "A UK expat's guide to Australia"},{"date": "2012-11-02T09:46:05Z", "country": "australia", "content": "As the prize formerly known as the Orange continues its hunt for a headline sponsor, it's interesting to see that Canada and Australia have both just launched women-only literary prizes.The Stella prize, in Australia, is named after Stella Miles Franklin, the esteemed novelist whose bequest founded the country's most prestigious literary award, the Miles Franklin, which came under memorable attack last year for being a \"sausage fest\". No female author had made the shortlist for the second time in three years, and just 13 out of the award's 50 winners had been women.That changed this year when Anna Funder took the prize, but a group of women in the arts have founded the Stella award nonetheless, to \"raise the profile of women's writing\" with a prize pot of A$50,000 for the best work of fiction or non-fiction by a woman.In Canada, meanwhile, trade magazine Quill & Quire reports that the Rosalind prize is being set up. It's just for fiction, and it comes about due to the disparity in numbers discovered by the organisation Canadian Women in the Literary Arts: although looking at submissions for the Governor General's Literary Awards, \"women and men published books in near equal numbers in 2011 with 513 books published by men and 523 books published by women\", far fewer books by women were reviewed in the press (you can see the details here).\"I thought things were fine and equal here in Canada. I didn't realise the disparity until looking at the hard numbers,\" publisher Janice Zawerbny told Quill & Quire. \"It was really disheartening. Why is this happening in this day and age? It became the impetus or the rallying cry, sitting in the auditorium.\"The establishment of the Rosalind prize follows the discontinuation, in 2008, of Canada's Marian Engel award for female writers. There's an intriguing piece in the Globe and Mail by Leah McLaren about this.\"In Canada, women writers have been playing with the big boys for some time now,\" she writes. \"This is why, in 2008, when I was on the authors' committee of the Writers' Trust of Canada, we discontinued the Marian Engel award (for a woman writer in mid-career) and created the Engel/Findley award to honour a body of work by any established Canadian writer, male or female. Assessing the literary landscape, the committee decided that a gendered prize was no longer needed \u2013 and we were right. It was a wise choice, and one that reflected the progress (if not outright dominance) of female Canadian writers on a level playing-field.\"Clearly, not everyone in Canada agrees that there's a level playing-field these days. But as we in the UK discuss whether or not we still need the Women's prize for fiction \u2013 Hilary Mantel, after all, is fresh from her second Booker win \u2013 it's intriguing to note that other countries are starting their own versions.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Women's prize for fiction", "Books", "Awards and prizes", "Culture", "Women", "Life and style", "Equality", "Society", "Canada", "Australia news", "Americas", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Corporate sponsorship"], "title": "Canada and Australia launch women's literary prizes"},{"date": "2013-06-17T05:14:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Just shy of midnight on Saturday night, I left the sixth and final act of Angels in America at Belvoir. That\u2019s a late finish for any production, but my fellow audience members and I had started the day at 2pm. Even when we went in, there was a sense of camaraderie: together, we were committing a day of our lives to seeing what is largely considered to be the seminal American play.And yet, as we left, I couldn\u2019t help but feel that what we had seen was undeniably Australian. The text, the setting, and the accents were all American, but from director Eamon Flack the production felt like a new Australian work, comfortably part of an Australian canon of contemporary theatre.So often when we talk about \u201cnew Australian work\u201d we get caught up in only looking at the text and new scripts. Who wrote it? Where is it set? Is it an adaptation of a foreign script or book? Is it perhaps time to think of \u201cnew Australian work\u201d in a much broader context? When does ownership through text end, and ownership of performance begin?Angels in America is certainly not a new Australian work in terms of its text, and the production makes no pretensions to be. The story may not be ours in 2013 \u2013 and probably never was ours even when Tony Kushner wrote his story about AIDS in a 1985 New York City. But the theatre of the piece feels firmly ours of today.It\u2019s both surprising and exciting how Flack\u2019s production has this spirit to it, and he has found this largely through an Australian irreverent sense of humour. While Kushner said it\u2019s \u201cokay if the wires show\u201d in his stage directions, in this production Flack\u2019s stage magic is, for the most part, so delightfully rudimentary there aren\u2019t even wires to hide.The cast \u2013 and the audience \u2013 celebrates the humour in \u201cappearing\u201d and \u201cdisappearing\u201d on stage under thrown handfuls of glitter, or an angel \u201cfloating\u201d by standing on a ladder. Far from diminishing Kushner\u2019s text, this irreverence seems to weight his words further. Flack celebrates the sense of deliberateness in every tightly wrought word.Here, by embedding the work with a very contemporary Australian sense of humour, Flack brings it closer to the world of his audience, which is, of course, the same aim of directors and writers when adapting a text.When we talk about new Australian work, and when we look at plays in particular, the focus so often seems to be on the script. When classic texts are adapted to an Australian setting, we ask: \u201cAre they more a product of Australia or the country of the playwright?\u201dBut even when being faithful to the script at the heart of text-based theatre, the resulting productions are simultaneously a product of the time they were written, and the time they are presented. The world of a play is made up by so many people beyond the writer \u2013 if, indeed, there is a writer involved at all.Not that it necessarily follows that a work will feel particularly Australian even if it comes from an Australian creative team. If a work is produced by Australians but feels American, or British, where do we place it then?Angels aside, in my experience it is rare that Australian productions of foreign texts in foreign settings feel Australian. But if this is a way we can think about new Australian work I think it\u2019s exciting \u2013 not only about the text, but the way we connect to, and leave, the work.", "tags": ["Stage", "Tony Kushner", "Culture"], "title": "Angels in \u2026 Australia? "},{"date": "2013-06-17T05:14:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Just shy of midnight on Saturday night, I left the sixth and final act of Angels in America at Belvoir. That\u2019s a late finish for any production, but my fellow audience members and I had started the day at 2pm. Even when we went in, there was a sense of camaraderie: together, we were committing a day of our lives to seeing what is largely considered to be the seminal American play.And yet, as we left, I couldn\u2019t help but feel that what we had seen was undeniably Australian. The text, the setting, and the accents were all American, but from director Eamon Flack the production felt like a new Australian work, comfortably part of an Australian canon of contemporary theatre.So often when we talk about \u201cnew Australian work\u201d we get caught up in only looking at the text and new scripts. Who wrote it? Where is it set? Is it an adaptation of a foreign script or book? Is it perhaps time to think of \u201cnew Australian work\u201d in a much broader context? When does ownership through text end, and ownership of performance begin?Angels in America is certainly not a new Australian work in terms of its text, and the production makes no pretensions to be. The story may not be ours in 2013 \u2013 and probably never was ours even when Tony Kushner wrote his story about AIDS in a 1985 New York City. But the theatre of the piece feels firmly ours of today.It\u2019s both surprising and exciting how Flack\u2019s production has this spirit to it, and he has found this largely through an Australian irreverent sense of humour. While Kushner said it\u2019s \u201cokay if the wires show\u201d in his stage directions, in this production Flack\u2019s stage magic is, for the most part, so delightfully rudimentary there aren\u2019t even wires to hide.The cast \u2013 and the audience \u2013 celebrates the humour in \u201cappearing\u201d and \u201cdisappearing\u201d on stage under thrown handfuls of glitter, or an angel \u201cfloating\u201d by standing on a ladder. Far from diminishing Kushner\u2019s text, this irreverence seems to weight his words further. Flack celebrates the sense of deliberateness in every tightly wrought word.Here, by embedding the work with a very contemporary Australian sense of humour, Flack brings it closer to the world of his audience, which is, of course, the same aim of directors and writers when adapting a text.When we talk about new Australian work, and when we look at plays in particular, the focus so often seems to be on the script. When classic texts are adapted to an Australian setting, we ask: \u201cAre they more a product of Australia or the country of the playwright?\u201dBut even when being faithful to the script at the heart of text-based theatre, the resulting productions are simultaneously a product of the time they were written, and the time they are presented. The world of a play is made up by so many people beyond the writer \u2013 if, indeed, there is a writer involved at all.Not that it necessarily follows that a work will feel particularly Australian even if it comes from an Australian creative team. If a work is produced by Australians but feels American, or British, where do we place it then?Angels aside, in my experience it is rare that Australian productions of foreign texts in foreign settings feel Australian. But if this is a way we can think about new Australian work I think it\u2019s exciting \u2013 not only about the text, but the way we connect to, and leave, the work.", "tags": ["Stage", "Tony Kushner", "Culture"], "title": "Angels in \u2026 Australia? "},{"date": "2013-06-10T23:57:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The vitamins and supplements industry is big business in Australia, worth an estimated $1.5bn each year. With heavily produced celebrity endorsements, huge in-store displays and unprecedented sales, an overwhelming majority of Australians now count themselves as customers. The Swisse brand, a privately owned Australian venture, is the rising star, with a legion of sports personalities and Hollywood names such as Nicole Kidman and Ellen DeGeneres promoting its motto: \u201cLive healthy, be happy.\u201d It has grown 380% in the last four years and is expanding rapidly at home and abroad.But why are Australians embracing the vitamins and supplements industry like never before? Are they simply responding to wall-to-wall advertising by the big players, a line pushed by many in the medical fraternity, or has there been a shift in the way we think about health? Is it part of a preoccupation with healthy living or the product of the worried well?A decade ago, around 50% of Australians took complementary medicines, including vitamins, minerals, traditional medicines, herbs, aromatherapy and homeopathic products, according to a study done in South Australia. Now the figure could be as high as 75%, Jon Adams, an expert in the field from the University of Technology, Sydney (UTS), estimates, although no comprehensive national reporting system exists. The industry is growing at up to 12% annually and, according to the National Institute of Complementary Medicine, almost four times as much in out of pocket expenses is spent on complementary medicine in Australia as on pharmaceuticals.According to Adams, professor of public health and director of the Australian Research Centre in Complementary and Integrative Medicine at UTS, the growing use of alternative medicines is part of the development of a \u201cparadigm of wellness\u201d in the community.\u201cPeople are looking to improve their lot and are thinking more proactively and holistically about health and not just about responding to illness. It\u2019s a message the healthcare system in general promotes, whether it\u2019s about quitting smoking or having a good diet,\u201d he said.Adams says vitamins and supplements have become firmly entrenched in the way people think about their health, whether or not there is convincing evidence that the products work.\u201cWhen you look at the data,\u201d he said, \u201cone of the most important things you notice is that it\u2019s not just a middle-class phenomenon or people who are wealthy who are using complementary medicine. It\u2019s men and women of all ages and socio-economic groups, right across the country.\u201dWomen represent the largest group of purchasers, according to a survey by the Roy Morgan group last year. It reported that 73% of first-time mothers-to-be had bought vitamins in the previous six months, as had 62% of expectant mothers, 44% of women in general and 31% of men.\u201cThese people are not radical consumers who have decided they don\u2019t like conventional medicine,\u201d said Adams. \u201cThe evidence shows that the vast majority of them, here and around the world, either alternate between the two [different types of medicine], or use them concurrently.\u201dAccording to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the industry\u2019s growth has also been prompted by concerns about adverse side-effects of some conventional drugs. Its 2011 report on world medicine said there was a view in many industrialised countries that complementary medicine offered a gentler way of managing disease. In Australia, as in other markets, an ageing population and growing obesity figures are also contributing factors.The WHO estimates the international market for complementary medicine is worth $83bn and is experiencing \u201cexponential growth\u201d. The US, where 80% of the population is either overweight or obese, is the biggest player. China is second, worth an estimated $11bn per year (in 2011, according to Euromonitor). Other parts of Asia are also growing: Malaysia at 6% each year, South Korea 11% and Thailand 20%. They are increasingly important target markets for Australian brands wanting to expand internationally.Australia\u2019s market is dominated by a few big players, including the long-time industry leader, Blackmores; PharmaCare, which owns a number of brands including Nature\u2019s Way, and Swisse, which this year will spend around $50m (or approximately 30% of its revenue) on marketing and in-store promotions. Swisse has transformed itself from a loss-making minnow of the industry four years ago into a serious contender for top position. According to the Nielsen research group, Swisse increased its media spend in 2012 by 54% compared with the previous year. It reflects the growth in advertising in the vitamins and supplements category generally, which was up 22% in 2012, according to Nielsen.At Swisse\u2019s Australian headquarters, staff are treated to organic grilled salmon and salad at lunch-time, a full-time personal trainer, free fortnightly massages and a \u201chealth and happiness\u201d day off most months. According to Swisse\u2019s chief executive, Radek Sali, 36, looking after his employees reflects the culture of \u201cwellness\u201d at Swisse. In the four years he has been CEO, Swisse\u2019s revenue has grown from $45 to $170m.\u201cLast quarter sales were very close to being number one in the whole category, so things are going very well,\u201d he said.Sali says as well as changing public perceptions about complementary medicines, much of the growth in recent years has come through Swisse\u2019s push into the big grocery chains, Coles and Woolworths, though few will have missed its recent TV advertising blitz. He says Australians are embracing alternative medicine because it\u2019s \u201crisk-free\u201d and they want to take control of their health.\u201cIf it\u2019s not harming anyone and it is making people feel healthier and happier, why wouldn\u2019t we have more of that?\u201d Sali said.It\u2019s an approach that has come in for criticism from some in the medical community who accuse the industry of selling products for the gullible without strong evidence that they work, something the industry denies.Ken Harvey, adjunct professor at La Trobe University\u2019s school of public health, says some vitamins and supplements have \u201cdubious benefits at best\u201d. He cites Omega 3 as an example.\u201cBasically, there is no good evidence that supplementing Omega 3 to normal children with a reasonable diet improves their brain function,\u201d he said.The industry as a whole came under fire in 2010 after a review of complementary medicine products by the Department of Health and Ageing found that as many as 90% of those examined did not comply with regulations, including labelling breaches which it said might \u201cmislead\u201d customers. The report also said some products lacked evidence to substantiate the claims made for them. The industry as a whole is regulated by the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA), which checks products for safety, but, unlike the regime for prescription medicines, not whether they work. The TGA is currently conducting a review into how it regulates complementary medicine.Whatever the reasons for people are choosing to use more complementary medicines \u2013 whether it is increased advertising, the desire for \u201cwellness\u201d, or concerns about the side-effects of conventional medicine \u2013 Adams said their popularity was a reality that could not be ignored by anyone with a stake in the debate.He said: \u201cTo the people who argue to shut down complementary medicine, I\u2019d say it is highly likely that a large proportion of people who are seeing their GP are also using complementary medicine. What we really need is better empirical evidence on who is taking what, when, how much and why, so we can make informed decisions about healthcare in our community.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Health & wellbeing"], "title": "Vitamins take Australia"},{"date": "2013-06-17T05:14:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Just shy of midnight on Saturday night, I left the sixth and final act of Angels in America at Belvoir. That\u2019s a late finish for any production, but my fellow audience members and I had started the day at 2pm. Even when we went in, there was a sense of camaraderie: together, we were committing a day of our lives to seeing what is largely considered to be the seminal American play.And yet, as we left, I couldn\u2019t help but feel that what we had seen was undeniably Australian. The text, the setting, and the accents were all American, but from director Eamon Flack the production felt like a new Australian work, comfortably part of an Australian canon of contemporary theatre.So often when we talk about \u201cnew Australian work\u201d we get caught up in only looking at the text and new scripts. Who wrote it? Where is it set? Is it an adaptation of a foreign script or book? Is it perhaps time to think of \u201cnew Australian work\u201d in a much broader context? When does ownership through text end, and ownership of performance begin?Angels in America is certainly not a new Australian work in terms of its text, and the production makes no pretensions to be. The story may not be ours in 2013 \u2013 and probably never was ours even when Tony Kushner wrote his story about AIDS in a 1985 New York City. But the theatre of the piece feels firmly ours of today.It\u2019s both surprising and exciting how Flack\u2019s production has this spirit to it, and he has found this largely through an Australian irreverent sense of humour. While Kushner said it\u2019s \u201cokay if the wires show\u201d in his stage directions, in this production Flack\u2019s stage magic is, for the most part, so delightfully rudimentary there aren\u2019t even wires to hide.The cast \u2013 and the audience \u2013 celebrates the humour in \u201cappearing\u201d and \u201cdisappearing\u201d on stage under thrown handfuls of glitter, or an angel \u201cfloating\u201d by standing on a ladder. Far from diminishing Kushner\u2019s text, this irreverence seems to weight his words further. Flack celebrates the sense of deliberateness in every tightly wrought word.Here, by embedding the work with a very contemporary Australian sense of humour, Flack brings it closer to the world of his audience, which is, of course, the same aim of directors and writers when adapting a text.When we talk about new Australian work, and when we look at plays in particular, the focus so often seems to be on the script. When classic texts are adapted to an Australian setting, we ask: \u201cAre they more a product of Australia or the country of the playwright?\u201dBut even when being faithful to the script at the heart of text-based theatre, the resulting productions are simultaneously a product of the time they were written, and the time they are presented. The world of a play is made up by so many people beyond the writer \u2013 if, indeed, there is a writer involved at all.Not that it necessarily follows that a work will feel particularly Australian even if it comes from an Australian creative team. If a work is produced by Australians but feels American, or British, where do we place it then?Angels aside, in my experience it is rare that Australian productions of foreign texts in foreign settings feel Australian. But if this is a way we can think about new Australian work I think it\u2019s exciting \u2013 not only about the text, but the way we connect to, and leave, the work.", "tags": ["Stage", "Tony Kushner", "Culture"], "title": "Angels in \u2026 Australia? "},{"date": "2013-06-10T23:57:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The vitamins and supplements industry is big business in Australia, worth an estimated $1.5bn each year. With heavily produced celebrity endorsements, huge in-store displays and unprecedented sales, an overwhelming majority of Australians now count themselves as customers. The Swisse brand, a privately owned Australian venture, is the rising star, with a legion of sports personalities and Hollywood names such as Nicole Kidman and Ellen DeGeneres promoting its motto: \u201cLive healthy, be happy.\u201d It has grown 380% in the last four years and is expanding rapidly at home and abroad.But why are Australians embracing the vitamins and supplements industry like never before? Are they simply responding to wall-to-wall advertising by the big players, a line pushed by many in the medical fraternity, or has there been a shift in the way we think about health? Is it part of a preoccupation with healthy living or the product of the worried well?A decade ago, around 50% of Australians took complementary medicines, including vitamins, minerals, traditional medicines, herbs, aromatherapy and homeopathic products, according to a study done in South Australia. Now the figure could be as high as 75%, Jon Adams, an expert in the field from the University of Technology, Sydney (UTS), estimates, although no comprehensive national reporting system exists. The industry is growing at up to 12% annually and, according to the National Institute of Complementary Medicine, almost four times as much in out of pocket expenses is spent on complementary medicine in Australia as on pharmaceuticals.According to Adams, professor of public health and director of the Australian Research Centre in Complementary and Integrative Medicine at UTS, the growing use of alternative medicines is part of the development of a \u201cparadigm of wellness\u201d in the community.\u201cPeople are looking to improve their lot and are thinking more proactively and holistically about health and not just about responding to illness. It\u2019s a message the healthcare system in general promotes, whether it\u2019s about quitting smoking or having a good diet,\u201d he said.Adams says vitamins and supplements have become firmly entrenched in the way people think about their health, whether or not there is convincing evidence that the products work.\u201cWhen you look at the data,\u201d he said, \u201cone of the most important things you notice is that it\u2019s not just a middle-class phenomenon or people who are wealthy who are using complementary medicine. It\u2019s men and women of all ages and socio-economic groups, right across the country.\u201dWomen represent the largest group of purchasers, according to a survey by the Roy Morgan group last year. It reported that 73% of first-time mothers-to-be had bought vitamins in the previous six months, as had 62% of expectant mothers, 44% of women in general and 31% of men.\u201cThese people are not radical consumers who have decided they don\u2019t like conventional medicine,\u201d said Adams. \u201cThe evidence shows that the vast majority of them, here and around the world, either alternate between the two [different types of medicine], or use them concurrently.\u201dAccording to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the industry\u2019s growth has also been prompted by concerns about adverse side-effects of some conventional drugs. Its 2011 report on world medicine said there was a view in many industrialised countries that complementary medicine offered a gentler way of managing disease. In Australia, as in other markets, an ageing population and growing obesity figures are also contributing factors.The WHO estimates the international market for complementary medicine is worth $83bn and is experiencing \u201cexponential growth\u201d. The US, where 80% of the population is either overweight or obese, is the biggest player. China is second, worth an estimated $11bn per year (in 2011, according to Euromonitor). Other parts of Asia are also growing: Malaysia at 6% each year, South Korea 11% and Thailand 20%. They are increasingly important target markets for Australian brands wanting to expand internationally.Australia\u2019s market is dominated by a few big players, including the long-time industry leader, Blackmores; PharmaCare, which owns a number of brands including Nature\u2019s Way, and Swisse, which this year will spend around $50m (or approximately 30% of its revenue) on marketing and in-store promotions. Swisse has transformed itself from a loss-making minnow of the industry four years ago into a serious contender for top position. According to the Nielsen research group, Swisse increased its media spend in 2012 by 54% compared with the previous year. It reflects the growth in advertising in the vitamins and supplements category generally, which was up 22% in 2012, according to Nielsen.At Swisse\u2019s Australian headquarters, staff are treated to organic grilled salmon and salad at lunch-time, a full-time personal trainer, free fortnightly massages and a \u201chealth and happiness\u201d day off most months. According to Swisse\u2019s chief executive, Radek Sali, 36, looking after his employees reflects the culture of \u201cwellness\u201d at Swisse. In the four years he has been CEO, Swisse\u2019s revenue has grown from $45 to $170m.\u201cLast quarter sales were very close to being number one in the whole category, so things are going very well,\u201d he said.Sali says as well as changing public perceptions about complementary medicines, much of the growth in recent years has come through Swisse\u2019s push into the big grocery chains, Coles and Woolworths, though few will have missed its recent TV advertising blitz. He says Australians are embracing alternative medicine because it\u2019s \u201crisk-free\u201d and they want to take control of their health.\u201cIf it\u2019s not harming anyone and it is making people feel healthier and happier, why wouldn\u2019t we have more of that?\u201d Sali said.It\u2019s an approach that has come in for criticism from some in the medical community who accuse the industry of selling products for the gullible without strong evidence that they work, something the industry denies.Ken Harvey, adjunct professor at La Trobe University\u2019s school of public health, says some vitamins and supplements have \u201cdubious benefits at best\u201d. He cites Omega 3 as an example.\u201cBasically, there is no good evidence that supplementing Omega 3 to normal children with a reasonable diet improves their brain function,\u201d he said.The industry as a whole came under fire in 2010 after a review of complementary medicine products by the Department of Health and Ageing found that as many as 90% of those examined did not comply with regulations, including labelling breaches which it said might \u201cmislead\u201d customers. The report also said some products lacked evidence to substantiate the claims made for them. The industry as a whole is regulated by the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA), which checks products for safety, but, unlike the regime for prescription medicines, not whether they work. The TGA is currently conducting a review into how it regulates complementary medicine.Whatever the reasons for people are choosing to use more complementary medicines \u2013 whether it is increased advertising, the desire for \u201cwellness\u201d, or concerns about the side-effects of conventional medicine \u2013 Adams said their popularity was a reality that could not be ignored by anyone with a stake in the debate.He said: \u201cTo the people who argue to shut down complementary medicine, I\u2019d say it is highly likely that a large proportion of people who are seeing their GP are also using complementary medicine. What we really need is better empirical evidence on who is taking what, when, how much and why, so we can make informed decisions about healthcare in our community.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Health & wellbeing"], "title": "Vitamins take Australia"},{"date": "2013-06-11T00:57:25Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last Thursday, the head of the Treasury, Dr Martin Parkinson appeared before the Senate economics committee, addressing the subject of living standards and normality.He referred to a speech given by the deputy governor of the Reserve Bank, Dr Philip Lowe, called What is Normal. Parkinson described it as \u201ccompulsory reading for anybody who is thinking about these sorts of issues\u201d.So what is the speech about and why should we listen to it?The crux of the speech is that Australians are not really comparing themselves with a normal state of affairs when considering the past 10 years.The period from 2000 to the start of the GFC was so good and so long that we forgot it wasn\u2019t normal.He notes, for example, that from the mid-1980s up to the mid-2000s the amount of saved income fell, but by the mid-2000s things got a bit silly. From 1998 to 2006, as a nation, we spent nearly all we earned and sometimes spent even more.Where did we spend? Well, a lot of it went on debt to buy houses.After five years from 1987 to 1992 of fairly modest increases in the amount of debt households were taking on, in the mid 90s Australia started to get a taste for debt.By 1997 it was an addiction. From 2002 Australians binged on debt like it was a drug. From June 2001 to June 2006 the ratio of Australian debt to household income had risen 55 points from 98% of income to 153%:This was neither sustainable or normal.Similarly, Parkinson noted that when people think of standards of living, they don\u2019t think, \u201cWhere was I 20 years ago? Where was I 10 years ago?\u201d Instead they compare their position yesterday with that of tomorrow. As a result, he noted \u201ca lot of the sheer increase in average wealth in this country is not recognised\u201d.That sheer increase in wealth and living standards was also on the back of a very abnormal rise in Australia's terms of trade \u2013 the price for exports over the price paid for imports.This means that national income has grown by more than productivity. This is not normal:This is where the bad news arrives: no one expects the terms of trade to continue to grow \u2013 indeed, it is expected to fall.If we want general living standards to increase like they have in the past 10 years (and I\u2019m talking generally, not in terms of equality), we will need productivity to take up the slack.Now you might look at the 1990s and think national income grew quite nicely, but the problem during that time was quite abnormal productivity growth and also abnormal increases in participation due to a big influx of women entering the workforce.For most of this century productivity growth has slowed. This was due in part to the drought which hurt the rural sector, and, ironically, in large part to the increases in terms of trade which made less productive mining more profitable. This also led to a massive increase in investment, which was more labour intensive and less productive.The Treasury has estimated that productivity will grow at around 1.5% a year for the next four years, but if terms of trade decline by 7.5% a year standards of living will stay flat.The good news is that in the past five years productivity growth has averaged 1.5% a year and in the past 12 months it grew by 2.4%. It is still unclear, however, if the increase is part of a cycle that will soon end, or whether it is a structural shift that will continue.We also often forget how abnormal it is for the economy to grow at\u00a022 years without decline. The second longest period of such continuous growth\u00a0since 1960 was for 13 years between 1961-1974.Does that mean we\u2019re headed for a recession and declining living standards? No, but in the next few years we may begin to grasp how good we had it for the past 20 years.Normal might no longer be abnormal.", "tags": ["Business", "Australian economy", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Australia beware: normality beckons"},{"date": "2013-06-17T05:14:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Just shy of midnight on Saturday night, I left the sixth and final act of Angels in America at Belvoir. That\u2019s a late finish for any production, but my fellow audience members and I had started the day at 2pm. Even when we went in, there was a sense of camaraderie: together, we were committing a day of our lives to seeing what is largely considered to be the seminal American play.And yet, as we left, I couldn\u2019t help but feel that what we had seen was undeniably Australian. The text, the setting, and the accents were all American, but from director Eamon Flack the production felt like a new Australian work, comfortably part of an Australian canon of contemporary theatre.So often when we talk about \u201cnew Australian work\u201d we get caught up in only looking at the text and new scripts. Who wrote it? Where is it set? Is it an adaptation of a foreign script or book? Is it perhaps time to think of \u201cnew Australian work\u201d in a much broader context? When does ownership through text end, and ownership of performance begin?Angels in America is certainly not a new Australian work in terms of its text, and the production makes no pretensions to be. The story may not be ours in 2013 \u2013 and probably never was ours even when Tony Kushner wrote his story about AIDS in a 1985 New York City. But the theatre of the piece feels firmly ours of today.It\u2019s both surprising and exciting how Flack\u2019s production has this spirit to it, and he has found this largely through an Australian irreverent sense of humour. While Kushner said it\u2019s \u201cokay if the wires show\u201d in his stage directions, in this production Flack\u2019s stage magic is, for the most part, so delightfully rudimentary there aren\u2019t even wires to hide.The cast \u2013 and the audience \u2013 celebrates the humour in \u201cappearing\u201d and \u201cdisappearing\u201d on stage under thrown handfuls of glitter, or an angel \u201cfloating\u201d by standing on a ladder. Far from diminishing Kushner\u2019s text, this irreverence seems to weight his words further. Flack celebrates the sense of deliberateness in every tightly wrought word.Here, by embedding the work with a very contemporary Australian sense of humour, Flack brings it closer to the world of his audience, which is, of course, the same aim of directors and writers when adapting a text.When we talk about new Australian work, and when we look at plays in particular, the focus so often seems to be on the script. When classic texts are adapted to an Australian setting, we ask: \u201cAre they more a product of Australia or the country of the playwright?\u201dBut even when being faithful to the script at the heart of text-based theatre, the resulting productions are simultaneously a product of the time they were written, and the time they are presented. The world of a play is made up by so many people beyond the writer \u2013 if, indeed, there is a writer involved at all.Not that it necessarily follows that a work will feel particularly Australian even if it comes from an Australian creative team. If a work is produced by Australians but feels American, or British, where do we place it then?Angels aside, in my experience it is rare that Australian productions of foreign texts in foreign settings feel Australian. But if this is a way we can think about new Australian work I think it\u2019s exciting \u2013 not only about the text, but the way we connect to, and leave, the work.", "tags": ["Stage", "Tony Kushner", "Culture"], "title": "Angels in \u2026 Australia? "},{"date": "2013-06-10T23:57:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The vitamins and supplements industry is big business in Australia, worth an estimated $1.5bn each year. With heavily produced celebrity endorsements, huge in-store displays and unprecedented sales, an overwhelming majority of Australians now count themselves as customers. The Swisse brand, a privately owned Australian venture, is the rising star, with a legion of sports personalities and Hollywood names such as Nicole Kidman and Ellen DeGeneres promoting its motto: \u201cLive healthy, be happy.\u201d It has grown 380% in the last four years and is expanding rapidly at home and abroad.But why are Australians embracing the vitamins and supplements industry like never before? Are they simply responding to wall-to-wall advertising by the big players, a line pushed by many in the medical fraternity, or has there been a shift in the way we think about health? Is it part of a preoccupation with healthy living or the product of the worried well?A decade ago, around 50% of Australians took complementary medicines, including vitamins, minerals, traditional medicines, herbs, aromatherapy and homeopathic products, according to a study done in South Australia. Now the figure could be as high as 75%, Jon Adams, an expert in the field from the University of Technology, Sydney (UTS), estimates, although no comprehensive national reporting system exists. The industry is growing at up to 12% annually and, according to the National Institute of Complementary Medicine, almost four times as much in out of pocket expenses is spent on complementary medicine in Australia as on pharmaceuticals.According to Adams, professor of public health and director of the Australian Research Centre in Complementary and Integrative Medicine at UTS, the growing use of alternative medicines is part of the development of a \u201cparadigm of wellness\u201d in the community.\u201cPeople are looking to improve their lot and are thinking more proactively and holistically about health and not just about responding to illness. It\u2019s a message the healthcare system in general promotes, whether it\u2019s about quitting smoking or having a good diet,\u201d he said.Adams says vitamins and supplements have become firmly entrenched in the way people think about their health, whether or not there is convincing evidence that the products work.\u201cWhen you look at the data,\u201d he said, \u201cone of the most important things you notice is that it\u2019s not just a middle-class phenomenon or people who are wealthy who are using complementary medicine. It\u2019s men and women of all ages and socio-economic groups, right across the country.\u201dWomen represent the largest group of purchasers, according to a survey by the Roy Morgan group last year. It reported that 73% of first-time mothers-to-be had bought vitamins in the previous six months, as had 62% of expectant mothers, 44% of women in general and 31% of men.\u201cThese people are not radical consumers who have decided they don\u2019t like conventional medicine,\u201d said Adams. \u201cThe evidence shows that the vast majority of them, here and around the world, either alternate between the two [different types of medicine], or use them concurrently.\u201dAccording to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the industry\u2019s growth has also been prompted by concerns about adverse side-effects of some conventional drugs. Its 2011 report on world medicine said there was a view in many industrialised countries that complementary medicine offered a gentler way of managing disease. In Australia, as in other markets, an ageing population and growing obesity figures are also contributing factors.The WHO estimates the international market for complementary medicine is worth $83bn and is experiencing \u201cexponential growth\u201d. The US, where 80% of the population is either overweight or obese, is the biggest player. China is second, worth an estimated $11bn per year (in 2011, according to Euromonitor). Other parts of Asia are also growing: Malaysia at 6% each year, South Korea 11% and Thailand 20%. They are increasingly important target markets for Australian brands wanting to expand internationally.Australia\u2019s market is dominated by a few big players, including the long-time industry leader, Blackmores; PharmaCare, which owns a number of brands including Nature\u2019s Way, and Swisse, which this year will spend around $50m (or approximately 30% of its revenue) on marketing and in-store promotions. Swisse has transformed itself from a loss-making minnow of the industry four years ago into a serious contender for top position. According to the Nielsen research group, Swisse increased its media spend in 2012 by 54% compared with the previous year. It reflects the growth in advertising in the vitamins and supplements category generally, which was up 22% in 2012, according to Nielsen.At Swisse\u2019s Australian headquarters, staff are treated to organic grilled salmon and salad at lunch-time, a full-time personal trainer, free fortnightly massages and a \u201chealth and happiness\u201d day off most months. According to Swisse\u2019s chief executive, Radek Sali, 36, looking after his employees reflects the culture of \u201cwellness\u201d at Swisse. In the four years he has been CEO, Swisse\u2019s revenue has grown from $45 to $170m.\u201cLast quarter sales were very close to being number one in the whole category, so things are going very well,\u201d he said.Sali says as well as changing public perceptions about complementary medicines, much of the growth in recent years has come through Swisse\u2019s push into the big grocery chains, Coles and Woolworths, though few will have missed its recent TV advertising blitz. He says Australians are embracing alternative medicine because it\u2019s \u201crisk-free\u201d and they want to take control of their health.\u201cIf it\u2019s not harming anyone and it is making people feel healthier and happier, why wouldn\u2019t we have more of that?\u201d Sali said.It\u2019s an approach that has come in for criticism from some in the medical community who accuse the industry of selling products for the gullible without strong evidence that they work, something the industry denies.Ken Harvey, adjunct professor at La Trobe University\u2019s school of public health, says some vitamins and supplements have \u201cdubious benefits at best\u201d. He cites Omega 3 as an example.\u201cBasically, there is no good evidence that supplementing Omega 3 to normal children with a reasonable diet improves their brain function,\u201d he said.The industry as a whole came under fire in 2010 after a review of complementary medicine products by the Department of Health and Ageing found that as many as 90% of those examined did not comply with regulations, including labelling breaches which it said might \u201cmislead\u201d customers. The report also said some products lacked evidence to substantiate the claims made for them. The industry as a whole is regulated by the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA), which checks products for safety, but, unlike the regime for prescription medicines, not whether they work. The TGA is currently conducting a review into how it regulates complementary medicine.Whatever the reasons for people are choosing to use more complementary medicines \u2013 whether it is increased advertising, the desire for \u201cwellness\u201d, or concerns about the side-effects of conventional medicine \u2013 Adams said their popularity was a reality that could not be ignored by anyone with a stake in the debate.He said: \u201cTo the people who argue to shut down complementary medicine, I\u2019d say it is highly likely that a large proportion of people who are seeing their GP are also using complementary medicine. What we really need is better empirical evidence on who is taking what, when, how much and why, so we can make informed decisions about healthcare in our community.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Health & wellbeing"], "title": "Vitamins take Australia"},{"date": "2013-06-11T00:57:25Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last Thursday, the head of the Treasury, Dr Martin Parkinson appeared before the Senate economics committee, addressing the subject of living standards and normality.He referred to a speech given by the deputy governor of the Reserve Bank, Dr Philip Lowe, called What is Normal. Parkinson described it as \u201ccompulsory reading for anybody who is thinking about these sorts of issues\u201d.So what is the speech about and why should we listen to it?The crux of the speech is that Australians are not really comparing themselves with a normal state of affairs when considering the past 10 years.The period from 2000 to the start of the GFC was so good and so long that we forgot it wasn\u2019t normal.He notes, for example, that from the mid-1980s up to the mid-2000s the amount of saved income fell, but by the mid-2000s things got a bit silly. From 1998 to 2006, as a nation, we spent nearly all we earned and sometimes spent even more.Where did we spend? Well, a lot of it went on debt to buy houses.After five years from 1987 to 1992 of fairly modest increases in the amount of debt households were taking on, in the mid 90s Australia started to get a taste for debt.By 1997 it was an addiction. From 2002 Australians binged on debt like it was a drug. From June 2001 to June 2006 the ratio of Australian debt to household income had risen 55 points from 98% of income to 153%:This was neither sustainable or normal.Similarly, Parkinson noted that when people think of standards of living, they don\u2019t think, \u201cWhere was I 20 years ago? Where was I 10 years ago?\u201d Instead they compare their position yesterday with that of tomorrow. As a result, he noted \u201ca lot of the sheer increase in average wealth in this country is not recognised\u201d.That sheer increase in wealth and living standards was also on the back of a very abnormal rise in Australia's terms of trade \u2013 the price for exports over the price paid for imports.This means that national income has grown by more than productivity. This is not normal:This is where the bad news arrives: no one expects the terms of trade to continue to grow \u2013 indeed, it is expected to fall.If we want general living standards to increase like they have in the past 10 years (and I\u2019m talking generally, not in terms of equality), we will need productivity to take up the slack.Now you might look at the 1990s and think national income grew quite nicely, but the problem during that time was quite abnormal productivity growth and also abnormal increases in participation due to a big influx of women entering the workforce.For most of this century productivity growth has slowed. This was due in part to the drought which hurt the rural sector, and, ironically, in large part to the increases in terms of trade which made less productive mining more profitable. This also led to a massive increase in investment, which was more labour intensive and less productive.The Treasury has estimated that productivity will grow at around 1.5% a year for the next four years, but if terms of trade decline by 7.5% a year standards of living will stay flat.The good news is that in the past five years productivity growth has averaged 1.5% a year and in the past 12 months it grew by 2.4%. It is still unclear, however, if the increase is part of a cycle that will soon end, or whether it is a structural shift that will continue.We also often forget how abnormal it is for the economy to grow at\u00a022 years without decline. The second longest period of such continuous growth\u00a0since 1960 was for 13 years between 1961-1974.Does that mean we\u2019re headed for a recession and declining living standards? No, but in the next few years we may begin to grasp how good we had it for the past 20 years.Normal might no longer be abnormal.", "tags": ["Business", "Australian economy", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Australia beware: normality beckons"},{"date": "2013-05-26T20:26:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "27 May 2013 - Leading global media organisation, the Guardian, today launches its much-anticipated Australian digital edition, Guardian Australia.Led by editor-in-chief Katharine Viner, also deputy editor of the Guardian, Guardian Australia will offer Australian readers a fresh perspective on Australian and world news. Through the Guardian's unique open approach to digital storytelling, Guardian Australia will stimulate thought-provoking debate by placing readers at the heart of the discussion, enabling Australians to engage in the broader world in which we live and connecting some of the best writers in Australia with the best of the Guardian's global journalism.\"The Guardian has a long established tradition of high-quality, independent journalism combining editorial integrity and journalistic innovation,\" Viner said. \"We already have a large and loyal Australian readership, who tell us they want more of what we do. Our research indicates that Australians are looking for an alternative that is truly independent, both global and local, which offers serious reporting and lively commentary, and is all-embracing in its use of everything that the digital sphere has to offer.\"Starting today, we'll be reporting and blogging, providing commentary, debate and community interaction, and using cutting edge data visualisation and interactive technology to engage our readers in new ways. We have built a strong Australian team including award-winning journalists David Marr, Lenore Taylor and Katharine Murphy.\" Nielsen figures from April* show that more than 1.1 million Australians are already regular readers of the Guardian's global website. For launch, the site leads with an interactive feature telling the story behind the arresting photograph which captured the attention of the world's media in January - the Holmes family clinging to a jetty during the bushfires in Tasmania. This immersive feature integrates video, audio, photography, text and graphics to share the story of the family's escape from advancing flames. The Holmes family received requests from media across the globe but chose the Guardian as the title they trusted to tell their story.In addition, the site also features an exclusive video interview with Guardian Australia political editor Lenore Taylor and prime minister Julia Gillard, in which Gillard refuses to commit to her political future beyond the election. In the interview, Gillard also appeals for a chance for Labor to lead as a majority government from the next election, and says that opposition leader Tony Abbott's signature women's policy of paid parental leave is anti-women and against Australian values. The full interview is online here. The prime minister also reveals herself to be a fan of the TV series Game of Thrones, claiming Daenerys Targaryen to be her favourite character - the woman who emerged triumphant from a trial by fire to be acclaimed as the uncontested leader of her people. Also launching today are Comment is Free Australia - part of our international award-winning comment site Comment is Free, and the Guardian Comment Network, featuring content partnerships with some of the leading comment and culture sites in Australia. The Guardian Comment Network showcases some of the best work from outside the traditional media landscape to break down the barriers between the Guardian's journalism and the ever-growing wealth of other sources for interesting and informative views on the world.\"We want to find all kinds of new ways to tell stories in Australia,\" Viner said. \"This is such an exciting time to be launching Guardian Australia and we are ready to cover the issues that really matter to the country as it moves towards the federal election in September. Guardian Australia will connect our Australian audience to our global community, and give readers around the world a better understanding of this very significant nation.\"Readers can access Guardian Australia content 24 hours a day via theguardian.com/australia, both on desktop and mobile, follow @GuardianAus on Twitter and can also download the Guardian App for Android which has a new Australian edition option. - ends - Notes to editors: *April 2013 Nielsen//NetRatings data via Inception Digital. To mark the launch of Guardian Australia, the Guardian has also released a multimedia ebook, Firestorm, inspired by the story of the Holmes family. The Firestorm multimedia ebook combines Guardian feature writer Jon Henley's dramatic story of the Inala Road bushfire with six short films and over 50 stunning photos. A text-only ebook is available for black and white ereaders.For more on Firestorm, visit the Guardian Shorts website. The ebooks are available to purchase from Amazon Kindle, Google Play Books, iBookstore, Barnes & Noble Nook, Kobo and other leading ebook retailers.About Guardian News & MediaGuardian News & Media (GNM) publishes theguardian.com, one of the largest newspaper websites in the world, as well as guardiannews.com in the US. Since launching the US digital operation, US traffic now represents a third of the Guardian's digital audience, with US traffic exceeding 13m unique users in April 2013, maintaining its lead over BBC News.Later this year theguardian.com/australia will be moving to a new global domain at theguardian.com, along with all of the Guardian's online properties.In the UK, GNM publishes the Guardian newspaper six days a week and the world's oldest Sunday newspaper, the Observer. The Guardian, which was first published in 1821, was named newspaper of the year at the British Press awards in 2011 following its trailblazing partnership with WikiLeaks. In the same year the Guardian not only wrote headlines but made headlines with its globally acclaimed investigation into phone hacking and the launch of its groundbreaking digital-first strategy.The Guardian's website was awarded the website of the year prize at the 2012 Online Media awards, while the Guardian itself was named the UK's most trusted newspaper in 2012 research by Conquest Research & Consultancy.The Scott Trust LtdThe ultimate owner of the Guardian is the Scott Trust, which was originally created as a trust in 1936 to safeguard the title's journalistic freedom. In 2008 it was replaced by a limited company with the same core purpose of the original trust: to secure the financial and editorial independence of the Guardian in perpetuity, while its subsidiary aims are to champion its principles and to promote freedom of the press in the UK and elsewhere. Other than to cover expense, the Scott Trust takes no dividend from the group's businesses, whose profits are instead reinvested to sustain journalism that is free from commercial or political interference.For further information please contact:In Australia:Lisa Popplewell+61 2 9994 4149+61 424 147 045guardianaustralia@webershandwick.com In the UK:Hayley DunlopT: +44 (0) 20 3353 3818M: +44 (0) 7920 478241hayley.dunlop@theguardian.com ", "tags": ["Press releases", "GNM press office", "Guardian Australia advertising", "Guardian Australia press office"], "title": "Guardian Australia launches"},{"date": "2013-06-17T05:14:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Just shy of midnight on Saturday night, I left the sixth and final act of Angels in America at Belvoir. That\u2019s a late finish for any production, but my fellow audience members and I had started the day at 2pm. Even when we went in, there was a sense of camaraderie: together, we were committing a day of our lives to seeing what is largely considered to be the seminal American play.And yet, as we left, I couldn\u2019t help but feel that what we had seen was undeniably Australian. The text, the setting, and the accents were all American, but from director Eamon Flack the production felt like a new Australian work, comfortably part of an Australian canon of contemporary theatre.So often when we talk about \u201cnew Australian work\u201d we get caught up in only looking at the text and new scripts. Who wrote it? Where is it set? Is it an adaptation of a foreign script or book? Is it perhaps time to think of \u201cnew Australian work\u201d in a much broader context? When does ownership through text end, and ownership of performance begin?Angels in America is certainly not a new Australian work in terms of its text, and the production makes no pretensions to be. The story may not be ours in 2013 \u2013 and probably never was ours even when Tony Kushner wrote his story about AIDS in a 1985 New York City. But the theatre of the piece feels firmly ours of today.It\u2019s both surprising and exciting how Flack\u2019s production has this spirit to it, and he has found this largely through an Australian irreverent sense of humour. While Kushner said it\u2019s \u201cokay if the wires show\u201d in his stage directions, in this production Flack\u2019s stage magic is, for the most part, so delightfully rudimentary there aren\u2019t even wires to hide.The cast \u2013 and the audience \u2013 celebrates the humour in \u201cappearing\u201d and \u201cdisappearing\u201d on stage under thrown handfuls of glitter, or an angel \u201cfloating\u201d by standing on a ladder. Far from diminishing Kushner\u2019s text, this irreverence seems to weight his words further. Flack celebrates the sense of deliberateness in every tightly wrought word.Here, by embedding the work with a very contemporary Australian sense of humour, Flack brings it closer to the world of his audience, which is, of course, the same aim of directors and writers when adapting a text.When we talk about new Australian work, and when we look at plays in particular, the focus so often seems to be on the script. When classic texts are adapted to an Australian setting, we ask: \u201cAre they more a product of Australia or the country of the playwright?\u201dBut even when being faithful to the script at the heart of text-based theatre, the resulting productions are simultaneously a product of the time they were written, and the time they are presented. The world of a play is made up by so many people beyond the writer \u2013 if, indeed, there is a writer involved at all.Not that it necessarily follows that a work will feel particularly Australian even if it comes from an Australian creative team. If a work is produced by Australians but feels American, or British, where do we place it then?Angels aside, in my experience it is rare that Australian productions of foreign texts in foreign settings feel Australian. But if this is a way we can think about new Australian work I think it\u2019s exciting \u2013 not only about the text, but the way we connect to, and leave, the work.", "tags": ["Stage", "Tony Kushner", "Culture"], "title": "Angels in \u2026 Australia? "},{"date": "2013-06-10T23:57:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The vitamins and supplements industry is big business in Australia, worth an estimated $1.5bn each year. With heavily produced celebrity endorsements, huge in-store displays and unprecedented sales, an overwhelming majority of Australians now count themselves as customers. The Swisse brand, a privately owned Australian venture, is the rising star, with a legion of sports personalities and Hollywood names such as Nicole Kidman and Ellen DeGeneres promoting its motto: \u201cLive healthy, be happy.\u201d It has grown 380% in the last four years and is expanding rapidly at home and abroad.But why are Australians embracing the vitamins and supplements industry like never before? Are they simply responding to wall-to-wall advertising by the big players, a line pushed by many in the medical fraternity, or has there been a shift in the way we think about health? Is it part of a preoccupation with healthy living or the product of the worried well?A decade ago, around 50% of Australians took complementary medicines, including vitamins, minerals, traditional medicines, herbs, aromatherapy and homeopathic products, according to a study done in South Australia. Now the figure could be as high as 75%, Jon Adams, an expert in the field from the University of Technology, Sydney (UTS), estimates, although no comprehensive national reporting system exists. The industry is growing at up to 12% annually and, according to the National Institute of Complementary Medicine, almost four times as much in out of pocket expenses is spent on complementary medicine in Australia as on pharmaceuticals.According to Adams, professor of public health and director of the Australian Research Centre in Complementary and Integrative Medicine at UTS, the growing use of alternative medicines is part of the development of a \u201cparadigm of wellness\u201d in the community.\u201cPeople are looking to improve their lot and are thinking more proactively and holistically about health and not just about responding to illness. It\u2019s a message the healthcare system in general promotes, whether it\u2019s about quitting smoking or having a good diet,\u201d he said.Adams says vitamins and supplements have become firmly entrenched in the way people think about their health, whether or not there is convincing evidence that the products work.\u201cWhen you look at the data,\u201d he said, \u201cone of the most important things you notice is that it\u2019s not just a middle-class phenomenon or people who are wealthy who are using complementary medicine. It\u2019s men and women of all ages and socio-economic groups, right across the country.\u201dWomen represent the largest group of purchasers, according to a survey by the Roy Morgan group last year. It reported that 73% of first-time mothers-to-be had bought vitamins in the previous six months, as had 62% of expectant mothers, 44% of women in general and 31% of men.\u201cThese people are not radical consumers who have decided they don\u2019t like conventional medicine,\u201d said Adams. \u201cThe evidence shows that the vast majority of them, here and around the world, either alternate between the two [different types of medicine], or use them concurrently.\u201dAccording to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the industry\u2019s growth has also been prompted by concerns about adverse side-effects of some conventional drugs. Its 2011 report on world medicine said there was a view in many industrialised countries that complementary medicine offered a gentler way of managing disease. In Australia, as in other markets, an ageing population and growing obesity figures are also contributing factors.The WHO estimates the international market for complementary medicine is worth $83bn and is experiencing \u201cexponential growth\u201d. The US, where 80% of the population is either overweight or obese, is the biggest player. China is second, worth an estimated $11bn per year (in 2011, according to Euromonitor). Other parts of Asia are also growing: Malaysia at 6% each year, South Korea 11% and Thailand 20%. They are increasingly important target markets for Australian brands wanting to expand internationally.Australia\u2019s market is dominated by a few big players, including the long-time industry leader, Blackmores; PharmaCare, which owns a number of brands including Nature\u2019s Way, and Swisse, which this year will spend around $50m (or approximately 30% of its revenue) on marketing and in-store promotions. Swisse has transformed itself from a loss-making minnow of the industry four years ago into a serious contender for top position. According to the Nielsen research group, Swisse increased its media spend in 2012 by 54% compared with the previous year. It reflects the growth in advertising in the vitamins and supplements category generally, which was up 22% in 2012, according to Nielsen.At Swisse\u2019s Australian headquarters, staff are treated to organic grilled salmon and salad at lunch-time, a full-time personal trainer, free fortnightly massages and a \u201chealth and happiness\u201d day off most months. According to Swisse\u2019s chief executive, Radek Sali, 36, looking after his employees reflects the culture of \u201cwellness\u201d at Swisse. In the four years he has been CEO, Swisse\u2019s revenue has grown from $45 to $170m.\u201cLast quarter sales were very close to being number one in the whole category, so things are going very well,\u201d he said.Sali says as well as changing public perceptions about complementary medicines, much of the growth in recent years has come through Swisse\u2019s push into the big grocery chains, Coles and Woolworths, though few will have missed its recent TV advertising blitz. He says Australians are embracing alternative medicine because it\u2019s \u201crisk-free\u201d and they want to take control of their health.\u201cIf it\u2019s not harming anyone and it is making people feel healthier and happier, why wouldn\u2019t we have more of that?\u201d Sali said.It\u2019s an approach that has come in for criticism from some in the medical community who accuse the industry of selling products for the gullible without strong evidence that they work, something the industry denies.Ken Harvey, adjunct professor at La Trobe University\u2019s school of public health, says some vitamins and supplements have \u201cdubious benefits at best\u201d. He cites Omega 3 as an example.\u201cBasically, there is no good evidence that supplementing Omega 3 to normal children with a reasonable diet improves their brain function,\u201d he said.The industry as a whole came under fire in 2010 after a review of complementary medicine products by the Department of Health and Ageing found that as many as 90% of those examined did not comply with regulations, including labelling breaches which it said might \u201cmislead\u201d customers. The report also said some products lacked evidence to substantiate the claims made for them. The industry as a whole is regulated by the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA), which checks products for safety, but, unlike the regime for prescription medicines, not whether they work. The TGA is currently conducting a review into how it regulates complementary medicine.Whatever the reasons for people are choosing to use more complementary medicines \u2013 whether it is increased advertising, the desire for \u201cwellness\u201d, or concerns about the side-effects of conventional medicine \u2013 Adams said their popularity was a reality that could not be ignored by anyone with a stake in the debate.He said: \u201cTo the people who argue to shut down complementary medicine, I\u2019d say it is highly likely that a large proportion of people who are seeing their GP are also using complementary medicine. What we really need is better empirical evidence on who is taking what, when, how much and why, so we can make informed decisions about healthcare in our community.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Health & wellbeing"], "title": "Vitamins take Australia"},{"date": "2013-06-11T00:57:25Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last Thursday, the head of the Treasury, Dr Martin Parkinson appeared before the Senate economics committee, addressing the subject of living standards and normality.He referred to a speech given by the deputy governor of the Reserve Bank, Dr Philip Lowe, called What is Normal. Parkinson described it as \u201ccompulsory reading for anybody who is thinking about these sorts of issues\u201d.So what is the speech about and why should we listen to it?The crux of the speech is that Australians are not really comparing themselves with a normal state of affairs when considering the past 10 years.The period from 2000 to the start of the GFC was so good and so long that we forgot it wasn\u2019t normal.He notes, for example, that from the mid-1980s up to the mid-2000s the amount of saved income fell, but by the mid-2000s things got a bit silly. From 1998 to 2006, as a nation, we spent nearly all we earned and sometimes spent even more.Where did we spend? Well, a lot of it went on debt to buy houses.After five years from 1987 to 1992 of fairly modest increases in the amount of debt households were taking on, in the mid 90s Australia started to get a taste for debt.By 1997 it was an addiction. From 2002 Australians binged on debt like it was a drug. From June 2001 to June 2006 the ratio of Australian debt to household income had risen 55 points from 98% of income to 153%:This was neither sustainable or normal.Similarly, Parkinson noted that when people think of standards of living, they don\u2019t think, \u201cWhere was I 20 years ago? Where was I 10 years ago?\u201d Instead they compare their position yesterday with that of tomorrow. As a result, he noted \u201ca lot of the sheer increase in average wealth in this country is not recognised\u201d.That sheer increase in wealth and living standards was also on the back of a very abnormal rise in Australia's terms of trade \u2013 the price for exports over the price paid for imports.This means that national income has grown by more than productivity. This is not normal:This is where the bad news arrives: no one expects the terms of trade to continue to grow \u2013 indeed, it is expected to fall.If we want general living standards to increase like they have in the past 10 years (and I\u2019m talking generally, not in terms of equality), we will need productivity to take up the slack.Now you might look at the 1990s and think national income grew quite nicely, but the problem during that time was quite abnormal productivity growth and also abnormal increases in participation due to a big influx of women entering the workforce.For most of this century productivity growth has slowed. This was due in part to the drought which hurt the rural sector, and, ironically, in large part to the increases in terms of trade which made less productive mining more profitable. This also led to a massive increase in investment, which was more labour intensive and less productive.The Treasury has estimated that productivity will grow at around 1.5% a year for the next four years, but if terms of trade decline by 7.5% a year standards of living will stay flat.The good news is that in the past five years productivity growth has averaged 1.5% a year and in the past 12 months it grew by 2.4%. It is still unclear, however, if the increase is part of a cycle that will soon end, or whether it is a structural shift that will continue.We also often forget how abnormal it is for the economy to grow at\u00a022 years without decline. The second longest period of such continuous growth\u00a0since 1960 was for 13 years between 1961-1974.Does that mean we\u2019re headed for a recession and declining living standards? No, but in the next few years we may begin to grasp how good we had it for the past 20 years.Normal might no longer be abnormal.", "tags": ["Business", "Australian economy", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Australia beware: normality beckons"},{"date": "2013-05-26T20:26:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "27 May 2013 - Leading global media organisation, the Guardian, today launches its much-anticipated Australian digital edition, Guardian Australia.Led by editor-in-chief Katharine Viner, also deputy editor of the Guardian, Guardian Australia will offer Australian readers a fresh perspective on Australian and world news. Through the Guardian's unique open approach to digital storytelling, Guardian Australia will stimulate thought-provoking debate by placing readers at the heart of the discussion, enabling Australians to engage in the broader world in which we live and connecting some of the best writers in Australia with the best of the Guardian's global journalism.\"The Guardian has a long established tradition of high-quality, independent journalism combining editorial integrity and journalistic innovation,\" Viner said. \"We already have a large and loyal Australian readership, who tell us they want more of what we do. Our research indicates that Australians are looking for an alternative that is truly independent, both global and local, which offers serious reporting and lively commentary, and is all-embracing in its use of everything that the digital sphere has to offer.\"Starting today, we'll be reporting and blogging, providing commentary, debate and community interaction, and using cutting edge data visualisation and interactive technology to engage our readers in new ways. We have built a strong Australian team including award-winning journalists David Marr, Lenore Taylor and Katharine Murphy.\" Nielsen figures from April* show that more than 1.1 million Australians are already regular readers of the Guardian's global website. For launch, the site leads with an interactive feature telling the story behind the arresting photograph which captured the attention of the world's media in January - the Holmes family clinging to a jetty during the bushfires in Tasmania. This immersive feature integrates video, audio, photography, text and graphics to share the story of the family's escape from advancing flames. The Holmes family received requests from media across the globe but chose the Guardian as the title they trusted to tell their story.In addition, the site also features an exclusive video interview with Guardian Australia political editor Lenore Taylor and prime minister Julia Gillard, in which Gillard refuses to commit to her political future beyond the election. In the interview, Gillard also appeals for a chance for Labor to lead as a majority government from the next election, and says that opposition leader Tony Abbott's signature women's policy of paid parental leave is anti-women and against Australian values. The full interview is online here. The prime minister also reveals herself to be a fan of the TV series Game of Thrones, claiming Daenerys Targaryen to be her favourite character - the woman who emerged triumphant from a trial by fire to be acclaimed as the uncontested leader of her people. Also launching today are Comment is Free Australia - part of our international award-winning comment site Comment is Free, and the Guardian Comment Network, featuring content partnerships with some of the leading comment and culture sites in Australia. The Guardian Comment Network showcases some of the best work from outside the traditional media landscape to break down the barriers between the Guardian's journalism and the ever-growing wealth of other sources for interesting and informative views on the world.\"We want to find all kinds of new ways to tell stories in Australia,\" Viner said. \"This is such an exciting time to be launching Guardian Australia and we are ready to cover the issues that really matter to the country as it moves towards the federal election in September. Guardian Australia will connect our Australian audience to our global community, and give readers around the world a better understanding of this very significant nation.\"Readers can access Guardian Australia content 24 hours a day via theguardian.com/australia, both on desktop and mobile, follow @GuardianAus on Twitter and can also download the Guardian App for Android which has a new Australian edition option. - ends - Notes to editors: *April 2013 Nielsen//NetRatings data via Inception Digital. To mark the launch of Guardian Australia, the Guardian has also released a multimedia ebook, Firestorm, inspired by the story of the Holmes family. The Firestorm multimedia ebook combines Guardian feature writer Jon Henley's dramatic story of the Inala Road bushfire with six short films and over 50 stunning photos. A text-only ebook is available for black and white ereaders.For more on Firestorm, visit the Guardian Shorts website. The ebooks are available to purchase from Amazon Kindle, Google Play Books, iBookstore, Barnes & Noble Nook, Kobo and other leading ebook retailers.About Guardian News & MediaGuardian News & Media (GNM) publishes theguardian.com, one of the largest newspaper websites in the world, as well as guardiannews.com in the US. Since launching the US digital operation, US traffic now represents a third of the Guardian's digital audience, with US traffic exceeding 13m unique users in April 2013, maintaining its lead over BBC News.Later this year theguardian.com/australia will be moving to a new global domain at theguardian.com, along with all of the Guardian's online properties.In the UK, GNM publishes the Guardian newspaper six days a week and the world's oldest Sunday newspaper, the Observer. The Guardian, which was first published in 1821, was named newspaper of the year at the British Press awards in 2011 following its trailblazing partnership with WikiLeaks. In the same year the Guardian not only wrote headlines but made headlines with its globally acclaimed investigation into phone hacking and the launch of its groundbreaking digital-first strategy.The Guardian's website was awarded the website of the year prize at the 2012 Online Media awards, while the Guardian itself was named the UK's most trusted newspaper in 2012 research by Conquest Research & Consultancy.The Scott Trust LtdThe ultimate owner of the Guardian is the Scott Trust, which was originally created as a trust in 1936 to safeguard the title's journalistic freedom. In 2008 it was replaced by a limited company with the same core purpose of the original trust: to secure the financial and editorial independence of the Guardian in perpetuity, while its subsidiary aims are to champion its principles and to promote freedom of the press in the UK and elsewhere. Other than to cover expense, the Scott Trust takes no dividend from the group's businesses, whose profits are instead reinvested to sustain journalism that is free from commercial or political interference.For further information please contact:In Australia:Lisa Popplewell+61 2 9994 4149+61 424 147 045guardianaustralia@webershandwick.com In the UK:Hayley DunlopT: +44 (0) 20 3353 3818M: +44 (0) 7920 478241hayley.dunlop@theguardian.com ", "tags": ["Press releases", "GNM press office", "Guardian Australia advertising", "Guardian Australia press office"], "title": "Guardian Australia launches"},{"date": "2013-05-26T19:37:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Today we launch Guardian Australia, the Guardian\u2019s third international digital edition, focusing our unique style of journalism on this vast and fascinating country.We'd like to welcome all our readers \u2013 from those who have read the Guardian for many years, via the Guardian's UK or US websites, Guardian Weekly or the newspaper in Britain, to those who are discovering the Guardian here today for the first time.We will endeavour to engage you with up-to-the-moment reporting, investigations, commentary, blogging, in-depth analysis, open journalism, cutting-edge data visualisation, interactive technology, chutzpah and fun.2013 is an exciting year to launch in Australia. There\u2019s an important federal election; two Ashes series; the Lions rugby tour; a vast array of stories for us to get our teeth into, on the environment, the economy, immigration, gender, media, the arts and much more, and huge global interest in Australian culture, politics and society.When the Manchester Guardian launched on 5 May 1821, it had 1,000 readers, was published weekly and ran to just four pages. Today the Guardian has more than 40 million readers worldwide, most of them outside Britain, and is the third most-read English-language newspaper website in the world. Already more than a million of those readers are in Australia.So why should you read us? First of all, Guardian Australia is independent: the only reason it exists is to create excellent journalism. We are owned by the Scott Trust, with no proprietor or shareholders, which means that Guardian journalists are free to say anything. We offer an unparalleled range of opinion, showing all sides of the story. As our legendary editor CP Scott wrote in 1921: \u201cA newspaper is so much more than a business.\u201d He then listed the values of the Guardian, which still guide us today: \u201cHonesty, cleanness [integrity], courage, fairness, a sense of duty to the reader and the community.\u201dSecondly, Guardian Australia is digital. This gives us enormous freedom to deliver, discover and discuss stories in new ways. And because we are open, with no paywall, we are able to put the reader at the heart of what we do; we are open to suggestion, correction, clarification, engagement and debate.And third, Guardian Australia is a truly international news organisation. We will combine some of the best writers in Australia with the best internationally. We have a terrific political bureau in Lenore Taylor, Katharine Murphy, Greg Jericho and Simon Jackman. We have a team of talented Australian reporters, including the award-winning David Marr.And we have a squad of 40 international correspondents around the world, from China to the Middle East, India to west Africa, together with the very best and latest news, features and commentary from our large reporting teams in the UK and the US.But the Guardian is also interested in finding new Australian voices, and with your help we will be doing that over the coming months. As part of the Guardian's \u201copen journalism\u201d approach, we are introducing a range of brilliant Australian websites to the Guardian Comment Network \u2013 part of our award-winning comment site, Comment is free \u2013 which will highlight some of the best Australian writing on the web. With our partners, who range from Ausvotes2013 to Junkee, the Global Mail to IndigenousX to the Hoopla, we will cross-post some of the most interesting content while linking back to the original source. As some of the most interesting work is now being done outside the mainstream, we wish to highlight this, while promoting our partner sites to a global audience.Other networks will be coming soon.You will find more \u201copen journalism\u201d projects throughout the site, and, in the true spirit of digital media, these will grow and develop, moulded by our users and readers in collaboration with our journalists. We would love you to take part in the success of Guardian Australia. You can do this by:\u2022 Joining the debate beneath the articles; you can talk to our editors and writers there.\u2022 Engaging with our GuardianWitness participation projects.\u2022 Sending us ideas for stories, tips, pitches or feedback via email, to australia@guardiannews.com.\u2022 Engaging with Guardian Australia journalists on Twitter, through @GuardianAus and as individuals.\u2022 Liking us on Facebook, at facebook.com/theguardianAustralia.\u2022 Following us on Instagram, at guardianaustralia, for behind-the-scenes photos.\u2022 Writing to us, at Level 1, 35 Reservoir Street, Surry Hills 2010, Sydney.So sign up for our daily email, which will keep you up to date with all the best stories on our site each day. And if you prefer to switch to the US or UK editions, that\u2019s easily done: just click the button at the top left hand corner of the site.I will be live online for an hour at 12.30 AEST today (27 May), to answer your questions. Please post your questions below in the comments section.Thank you for being part of Guardian Australia, from the very beginning.Katharine VinerEditor-in-chief, Guardian Australia and deputy editor, the GuardianOn Twitter: @KathVinerOn Facebook: KathVinerguardian.co.uk/australiaLater this year guardian.co.uk/australia will be moving to a new global domain at theguardian.com, along with all of the Guardian\u2019s online properties.We acknowledge that the Guardian\u2019s Sydney office is located on the traditional lands of the Gadigal people of the Eora nation. We would like to acknowledge the Traditional Owners of the land on which we work and pay our respects to the Elders past and present.Jonas 77 says:\u00a0I even laughed a bit when I saw 'soccer' on the main page this morning!Kath Viner replies:\u00a0@Jonas77 - I have to admit I'm a little mortified by 'soccer' but it's a term universally understood! And I'm really enjoying footy...pass1234 asks:Glad to see the Australian edition launch finally. Will the Australian edition be available on the iPad and iPhone apps?Kath Viner replies:@pass1234 - yes, hope sodavidonformosa says:\u00a0The sport section doesn't look very Australian. I am sure Australians want to read about Cadel Evans instead of Mark Cavendish and football means something different here than it does in the UK.Kath Viner replies:@davidonformosa - have you seen this? http://www.guardian.co.uk/australiaIankinsey says:Please simplify your web address so more people will know it. The .co.uk is not well known. May I suggest www.tg.com.au and it could direct us to the Aussie page. All the best but K.I.S.S. (Keep it simple stupid).Kath Viner replies:@Iankinsey - yes - we will soon be moving to a global domain, theguardian.com. The current web address is temporary - apologies that it is a bit fiddly5thwall says:I think someone has asked about this already, but when i look at the Culture section it will revert to the UK edition, even though the little tab in the top left corner says AU. minor bug, to be sure. Looking forward to some decent arts discussion & comment in days to come.Kath Viner replies:@5thwall - we have an Australia culture blog here: http://gu.com/p/3g5c7/tw and we will have fresh Australian culture content every day. We hope to grow this more over the coming months; in the meantime, a lot of culture is global and we have fantastic arts coveragep1rategas says:We are owned by the Scott Trust, with no proprietor or shareholders, which means that Guardian journalists are free to say anything.Whilst I welcome The Guardian's introduction into Australia, I highly doubt whether this is true.Kath Viner replies:@p1rategas - I'd say it's the best ownership model for journalists in the worldChris K\u00fchle says:How will ACJimbo and BarryG cope with having to cover AFL in the Footie Weekly podcast? And will they start to mention the A-League in standard Football Weekly?Kath Viner replies:\u00a0@Chris K\u00fchle - aren't we in the off-season? Looking forward to the Socceroos until the season beginsLondonKiwi says:\u00a0Happy days! Although clearly an Aussie edition, will Guardian Australia also give a little focus to us poor Kiwi cousins over the Tasman Sea? We are also starved of quality independent journalism here, and our establishment could certainly do with some proper scrutiny ...Kath Viner replies:\u00a0@LondonKiwi - Our focus is very much on Australia to start with, but we'll certainly be looking over the pond more than before...Phlanger says: Great initiative - but get your own url. I don't appreciate clicking 'Guardian' in my favourites to be redirected here. Very bad form.Kath Viner replies:\u00a0@Phlanger - if you prefer to go to the UK site, just click on the button at the top left-hand cornerelmondo2012 says:Just thought I'd mention The Conversation which is a (really good) news and analysis website sourced from the academic and research community.http://theconversation.com/auIt's well worth looking at.Kath Viner replies:@elmondo2012 - yes - it's part of the Guardian comment network\u00a0Fingerband72 says:Thank you and the very best of British luck to you. Please remain balanced in your political reporting and avoid the \"right and left\" barracking that passes for political news locally.Can we also have an Australian Football Weekly podcast? I think Barry Glendenning should emigrate to head it up so that I can enjoy a pint with him ;-)Kath Viner replies:\u00a0@Fingerbang72 - as our sports editor Tom Lutz says, 'a pint with Barry Glendenning can lead you to some very interesting places'... be careful what you wish for!JamesAdelaide says:I fear that the impact of our beloved Guardian is currently limited.My Google News (9:15 am SA time) lists it towards the bottom of the Australian politics page. When clicked there were eight stories, including two unrelated Murdoch stories. The remaining six (3 for the Guardian itself, and 3 for obscure websites. The Drum listed is a website, not the ABC site.)Kath Viner replies:@JamesAdelaide - it will take time for us to establish us a voice and authority on Google in Australia, but we've got off to a very good start today and I hope you'll see more of us on Google News soonDexter2315 says: Does this marvellous reincarnation of 'proper journalism' in Australia mean that I will no longer receive my regular tea timely trashy fiver email?Kath Viner replies:@Dexter2315 - you'll still get full football/soccer coverage...ID155472 says:How much will this cost?- does one subscribe as for the UK digtial edition - I am happy to do this, and will it appear as the typed print edition?.Will you include the Guardian Saturday Review section in the Australian version? If so I definitely will subscribe.Kath Viner replies:@ID155472 - it's free. Yes - all of the Review articles will appeardavecanb says:Did I miss something? I don't recall being asked if I wanted to swap my Guardian log on for an Australian version of the Guardian.I began reading the Guardian in the mid 60's at university in Leeds and even at great distance and at times great inconvenience I continued to read the Guardian to this day. It would have been nice if you had asked me before changing what I wanted.Clearly my next task is to change things back the way they were and log onto the UK version which is what I want to read with my mid morning coffee, not another article on Possums or a let's be nice to Julia Q&A.Kath Viner replies:@davecanb - I'm sorry you're so disappointed and I'm glad you enjoy the Guardian so much. All the Guardian's global content is still there - you can go back to the UK site by clicking on the 'UK' button at the top left hand corner. You should only have to do this once and it should remember your preferenceRichardhunter says:Looking forward to reading news and political coverage from the Guardian. How long will it take you to ramp up all the other unique Australian content for things like arts, theatre, literature, sport, education, health, religion etc? You'll need that to provide a competative coverage from your main readership base.Kath Viner replies:@RichardHunter - we're starting small, but we'll growLaxyAU says:You change the 'soccer' link to 'football' in line with the rest of Australia's media. We aren't the USA.Kath Viner replies:@LaxyAU - we need to stick to 'soccer' as there are four different types of football in Aus!MeeganLea says:Hi, I'd love to take part in the Guardian Masterclasses (in particular, food & food writing) like you have in the UK. Really looking forward to Aussie edition of my favourite UK paper!Kath Viner says:@Meegan Lea - we're hoping to launch masterclassses here too! This one in Melbourne http://gu.com/p/3dkyz/tw was a success, so watch this spacerevoltionnumber10 says:Fantastic and very best of luck to you. EXCEPT, it's not soccer, mate, it's football.Kath Viner replies:@revolutionumber10 - oh no.. today is turning into #soccergate...bigyahu says:Pleased to see a new entrant, hope to see more Australian-generated content in the Australian version soon too.Might be a good idea to remove the Guardian Jobs and Guardian Books sections from the right hand side and replace with local jobs and books partner promotions.Kath Viner replies:@bigyahu - thank you, we're looking for commercial partners here...Graham Stewart says:Is the Australian version available on ipad?Kath Viner replies:\u00a0@Graham Stewart - not yet but soon I hopemonday13 says:I like the idea of \"open journalism\u201d projects, but a little unclear about what it's all about. Apart from commenting, what else can I do to get involved?Kath Viner\u00a0replies:\u00a0@Monday13 - you can join GuardianWitness, upload your pictures and suggest assignments https://witness.guardian.co.uk/; email the editors http://www.guardian.co.uk/info/2013/may/26/australia-team; and keep an eye out for people's panels, open threads and more. Thank you for your enthusiasm!moxy25 says:I hope you can change it to 'football' sometime soon! Will you be bringing us great coverage of the A-League and world football here like you do with the Guardian UK? Welcome to Oz!Kath Viner replies:@moxey25 - yes, Socceroos and then A-league when it comes back.----Thanks a lot for all your ideas and feedback, it was a pleasure to hear what you make of Guardian Australia. We'll be posting about #soccer soon. Keep in touch!", "tags": ["The Guardian", "Australia news", "About Guardian Australia"], "title": "Welcome to Guardian Australia | Katharine Viner"},{"date": "2013-08-26T23:11:59Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Whatever happens on 7 September, we already know who rules in Australia. We like to think of ourselves as an open and equal country with appropriate checks and balances but in truth, power is highly concentrated within our nation.Let\u2019s start with banking and finance. According to an IMF report last year, \"Australia\u2019s four major banks hold 80% of banking assets and 88% of residential mortgages,\" making Australia one of the most concentrated banking market in the world \u2013 more so than, for example, China or the US. The big four were also among the world\u2019s eight most profitable banks studied, demonstrating that they benefit substantially from their market domination.Within our retail food industry, the two supermarket giants Coles and Woolworths control between 55-60% of Australia\u2019s overall grocery share and up to 80% of dry groceries. We may want to buy our bread from corner bakeries, or fresh fruit from a family-owned grocer, but small business is squeezed out by the duopoly and their automated check-outs. Many claim their practices is bad for fair competition.Turning to our news supply, Australian newspaper circulation is among the most concentrated in the democratic world. Three companies \u2013 News Australia, Fairfax Media and APN collectively hold 98% of our print media circulation. Among the three, News Australia\u2019s daily and Sunday newspapers account for approximately two-thirds of all the dailies sold across the nation. And as the revenue model for traditional media collapses, the potential for corporate vested influence on newspapers becomes ever more likely, with obvious implications for political decision-making.Indeed, the sway of industry over our government is all too apparent. To cite two notorious examples, the mining industry\u2019s heavily resourced campaigns against a carbon price and a resource profits tax were key factors in Kevin Rudd and Malcolm Turnbull losing the leadership of their respective parties in 2010.The aggregation of control over our information, food, money and industry is darkly complemented by a fierce intolerance of dissent within Australia\u2019s two major political parties. According to research by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library, \"(p)arty discipline in Parliament is so strong that many analysts now refer to the Commonwealth as not having a system of responsible government but, instead, a system of responsible party government.\" An associated trend is ever greater power being concentrated in the executive.At a time in which social upheavals continue to erupt across the world \u2013 in which the central demand is always for a redistribution of power \u2013 politics in Australia feels curiously hermetic. As the election approaches, in stark disparity to the \"spring\" movements elsewhere, the leaves of an \"Australian autumn\" are falling \u2013 debate turns inwards, and the status quo is further entrenched. If anything, political and cultural debates seem to be narrowing, not broadening, reflecting what Simon Copland has described as an obsession with symbols rather than structures.The easy explanation, of course, is that Australia\u2019s overall prosperity and high levels of inter-generational mobility mean that the preconditions for major unrest simply don\u2019t exist here. But globalisation, neoliberalism and their discontents are experienced in varying ways in different states and regions. At the same time as political and economic power has been grasped by fewer and fewer hands in Australia, the majority of us have been subject to ever-increasing uncertainty as the old structures of our society have been corroded.\u00a0Australians as a whole may be comfortable and wealthy by any earthly standard, yet a sense of insecurity \u2013 of disempowerment \u2013 is rising. Restlessness about asylum-seekers, for example, can be interpreted as an expression of felt powerlessness, engendering anxieties which foreclose on the possibility of greater generosity towards refugees. As Richard Cooke has suggested, \"the boats issue has become the way in which the different classes of Australian society argue about globalisation.\" Popular concern about Australia\u2019s population levels can be understood in a similar way.The possibility exists in Australia for a new politics answering socio-economic anxiety with a political program reforming the structures that are really responsible for the experience of powerlessness. Otherwise, no matter how many poor sad souls are locked away in Papua New Guinea, nobody is going to feel any better and the fixed winners will remain those few who continue to wield too much influence over Australia.\u00a0", "tags": ["Australian election 2013", "Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia, land of market domination | David Ritter "},{"date": "2013-08-26T23:11:59Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Whatever happens on 7 September, we already know who rules in Australia. We like to think of ourselves as an open and equal country with appropriate checks and balances but in truth, power is highly concentrated within our nation.Let\u2019s start with banking and finance. According to an IMF report last year, \"Australia\u2019s four major banks hold 80% of banking assets and 88% of residential mortgages,\" making Australia one of the most concentrated banking market in the world \u2013 more so than, for example, China or the US. The big four were also among the world\u2019s eight most profitable banks studied, demonstrating that they benefit substantially from their market domination.Within our retail food industry, the two supermarket giants Coles and Woolworths control between 55-60% of Australia\u2019s overall grocery share and up to 80% of dry groceries. We may want to buy our bread from corner bakeries, or fresh fruit from a family-owned grocer, but small business is squeezed out by the duopoly and their automated check-outs. Many claim their practices is bad for fair competition.Turning to our news supply, Australian newspaper circulation is among the most concentrated in the democratic world. Three companies \u2013 News Australia, Fairfax Media and APN collectively hold 98% of our print media circulation. Among the three, News Australia\u2019s daily and Sunday newspapers account for approximately two-thirds of all the dailies sold across the nation. And as the revenue model for traditional media collapses, the potential for corporate vested influence on newspapers becomes ever more likely, with obvious implications for political decision-making.Indeed, the sway of industry over our government is all too apparent. To cite two notorious examples, the mining industry\u2019s heavily resourced campaigns against a carbon price and a resource profits tax were key factors in Kevin Rudd and Malcolm Turnbull losing the leadership of their respective parties in 2010.The aggregation of control over our information, food, money and industry is darkly complemented by a fierce intolerance of dissent within Australia\u2019s two major political parties. According to research by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library, \"(p)arty discipline in Parliament is so strong that many analysts now refer to the Commonwealth as not having a system of responsible government but, instead, a system of responsible party government.\" An associated trend is ever greater power being concentrated in the executive.At a time in which social upheavals continue to erupt across the world \u2013 in which the central demand is always for a redistribution of power \u2013 politics in Australia feels curiously hermetic. As the election approaches, in stark disparity to the \"spring\" movements elsewhere, the leaves of an \"Australian autumn\" are falling \u2013 debate turns inwards, and the status quo is further entrenched. If anything, political and cultural debates seem to be narrowing, not broadening, reflecting what Simon Copland has described as an obsession with symbols rather than structures.The easy explanation, of course, is that Australia\u2019s overall prosperity and high levels of inter-generational mobility mean that the preconditions for major unrest simply don\u2019t exist here. But globalisation, neoliberalism and their discontents are experienced in varying ways in different states and regions. At the same time as political and economic power has been grasped by fewer and fewer hands in Australia, the majority of us have been subject to ever-increasing uncertainty as the old structures of our society have been corroded.\u00a0Australians as a whole may be comfortable and wealthy by any earthly standard, yet a sense of insecurity \u2013 of disempowerment \u2013 is rising. Restlessness about asylum-seekers, for example, can be interpreted as an expression of felt powerlessness, engendering anxieties which foreclose on the possibility of greater generosity towards refugees. As Richard Cooke has suggested, \"the boats issue has become the way in which the different classes of Australian society argue about globalisation.\" Popular concern about Australia\u2019s population levels can be understood in a similar way.The possibility exists in Australia for a new politics answering socio-economic anxiety with a political program reforming the structures that are really responsible for the experience of powerlessness. Otherwise, no matter how many poor sad souls are locked away in Papua New Guinea, nobody is going to feel any better and the fixed winners will remain those few who continue to wield too much influence over Australia.\u00a0", "tags": ["Australian election 2013", "Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia, land of market domination | David Ritter "},{"date": "2013-09-24T04:20:59Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia is spending $1bn a year more than it should on generic medication, costing the government money that could fund tens of thousands of extra nurses every year or pay for new government-subsidised medicines on the pharmaceutical benefits scheme (PBS), according to a consumer health campaign.Consumers Health Forum of Australia (CHF) is calling for the government to tighten up a policy that was originally introduced by the prime minister, Tony Abbott, when he was federal health minister, to see the savings of cheaper medicine passed on to taxpayers as soon as possible. It has launched an interactive which shows the \u201coverpayments\u201d adding up by the second.Currently, when pharmaceutical drugs become available and are listed for government subsidy on the PBS, the government negotiates a price with the manufacturer, which pharmacists then pay when they buy the medication and dispense it. However, when patents on these drugs end and cheaper generic versions become available for pharmacies to buy, the government can still be left reimbursing them for the higher pre-negotiated amount, unaware that the price has dropped. Pharmacists get to keep the difference.When medications become cheaper, manufacturers are obliged to inform the government within 12 months, and it is then another six months before the price drops. CHF wants this time period shortened so PBS drugs can get cheaper, faster.The delay in disclosure results in overpayments of about $3m a day\u00a0beyond the price that the UK currently pays for the same drugs, according to CHF \u2013 money which it says would be better used to fund other parts of our health system.\u201cWe know that up to 15% of consumers put off filling scripts because they can\u2019t afford the costs,\u201d the chief executive of CHF, Carol Bennett, told Guardian Australia.\u201cWe cannot afford to be spending a billion [dollars] more than comparable countries on medications, or we are simply going to end up missing out on new treatments and on other treatments,\u201d she said, adding that Australia pays about twice the amount that the UK and New Zealand pay for medications.\u201cThis is $2,000 a minute, that\u2019s 55 GP visits. It\u2019s five hip replacements or four coronary bypasses every hour. It\u2019s 54 nurses a day and that\u2019s 90,000 nurses working full-time for a whole year. This is a significant, enormous amount of money out of the health budget,\u201d Bennett said.By cutting down the reporting time of price drops and passing them on to consumers, more money would also be available to add new medications to the PBS, said Alan Kirkland, the CEO of consumer advocacy group CHOICE.\u201cThere are new drugs being invented and trialled and released for clinical use all the time,\u201d Kirkland told Guardian Australia.\u201cIf we can make sure that the cost of medications that are already on the PBS is as low as possible, it\u2019s more likely that we\u2019ll see new medications listed as they become available.\u201dA spokeswoman for the minister of health, Peter Dutton, told Guardian Australia that the 2007 price disclosure reforms had saved billions of dollars since they were introduced, but did not commit to any plans to shorten the time period.\u201cWhile the cost of medicines to taxpayers is very important, the government\u2019s priority is also to ensure Australian patients get timely and reliable access to innovative new treatments,\u201d said the spokeswoman.\u201cWhile some countries may pay less for some drugs, their systems can mean fewer innovative new treatments are available to their citizens. Some countries rely on just one supplier, risking shortages or disruption to supply.\u201cThe government will continue to look at ways to improve the system and get better prices, but I will also be conscious of the need to balance price with ensuring that patients get timely access to the drugs they need \u2013 this is ultimately why we have the PBS.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Pharmaceuticals industry", "Australian politics"], "title": "Prescription medicine: Australia spends $1bn too much "},{"date": "2013-08-26T23:11:59Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Whatever happens on 7 September, we already know who rules in Australia. We like to think of ourselves as an open and equal country with appropriate checks and balances but in truth, power is highly concentrated within our nation.Let\u2019s start with banking and finance. According to an IMF report last year, \"Australia\u2019s four major banks hold 80% of banking assets and 88% of residential mortgages,\" making Australia one of the most concentrated banking market in the world \u2013 more so than, for example, China or the US. The big four were also among the world\u2019s eight most profitable banks studied, demonstrating that they benefit substantially from their market domination.Within our retail food industry, the two supermarket giants Coles and Woolworths control between 55-60% of Australia\u2019s overall grocery share and up to 80% of dry groceries. We may want to buy our bread from corner bakeries, or fresh fruit from a family-owned grocer, but small business is squeezed out by the duopoly and their automated check-outs. Many claim their practices is bad for fair competition.Turning to our news supply, Australian newspaper circulation is among the most concentrated in the democratic world. Three companies \u2013 News Australia, Fairfax Media and APN collectively hold 98% of our print media circulation. Among the three, News Australia\u2019s daily and Sunday newspapers account for approximately two-thirds of all the dailies sold across the nation. And as the revenue model for traditional media collapses, the potential for corporate vested influence on newspapers becomes ever more likely, with obvious implications for political decision-making.Indeed, the sway of industry over our government is all too apparent. To cite two notorious examples, the mining industry\u2019s heavily resourced campaigns against a carbon price and a resource profits tax were key factors in Kevin Rudd and Malcolm Turnbull losing the leadership of their respective parties in 2010.The aggregation of control over our information, food, money and industry is darkly complemented by a fierce intolerance of dissent within Australia\u2019s two major political parties. According to research by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library, \"(p)arty discipline in Parliament is so strong that many analysts now refer to the Commonwealth as not having a system of responsible government but, instead, a system of responsible party government.\" An associated trend is ever greater power being concentrated in the executive.At a time in which social upheavals continue to erupt across the world \u2013 in which the central demand is always for a redistribution of power \u2013 politics in Australia feels curiously hermetic. As the election approaches, in stark disparity to the \"spring\" movements elsewhere, the leaves of an \"Australian autumn\" are falling \u2013 debate turns inwards, and the status quo is further entrenched. If anything, political and cultural debates seem to be narrowing, not broadening, reflecting what Simon Copland has described as an obsession with symbols rather than structures.The easy explanation, of course, is that Australia\u2019s overall prosperity and high levels of inter-generational mobility mean that the preconditions for major unrest simply don\u2019t exist here. But globalisation, neoliberalism and their discontents are experienced in varying ways in different states and regions. At the same time as political and economic power has been grasped by fewer and fewer hands in Australia, the majority of us have been subject to ever-increasing uncertainty as the old structures of our society have been corroded.\u00a0Australians as a whole may be comfortable and wealthy by any earthly standard, yet a sense of insecurity \u2013 of disempowerment \u2013 is rising. Restlessness about asylum-seekers, for example, can be interpreted as an expression of felt powerlessness, engendering anxieties which foreclose on the possibility of greater generosity towards refugees. As Richard Cooke has suggested, \"the boats issue has become the way in which the different classes of Australian society argue about globalisation.\" Popular concern about Australia\u2019s population levels can be understood in a similar way.The possibility exists in Australia for a new politics answering socio-economic anxiety with a political program reforming the structures that are really responsible for the experience of powerlessness. Otherwise, no matter how many poor sad souls are locked away in Papua New Guinea, nobody is going to feel any better and the fixed winners will remain those few who continue to wield too much influence over Australia.\u00a0", "tags": ["Australian election 2013", "Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia, land of market domination | David Ritter "},{"date": "2013-09-24T04:20:59Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia is spending $1bn a year more than it should on generic medication, costing the government money that could fund tens of thousands of extra nurses every year or pay for new government-subsidised medicines on the pharmaceutical benefits scheme (PBS), according to a consumer health campaign.Consumers Health Forum of Australia (CHF) is calling for the government to tighten up a policy that was originally introduced by the prime minister, Tony Abbott, when he was federal health minister, to see the savings of cheaper medicine passed on to taxpayers as soon as possible. It has launched an interactive which shows the \u201coverpayments\u201d adding up by the second.Currently, when pharmaceutical drugs become available and are listed for government subsidy on the PBS, the government negotiates a price with the manufacturer, which pharmacists then pay when they buy the medication and dispense it. However, when patents on these drugs end and cheaper generic versions become available for pharmacies to buy, the government can still be left reimbursing them for the higher pre-negotiated amount, unaware that the price has dropped. Pharmacists get to keep the difference.When medications become cheaper, manufacturers are obliged to inform the government within 12 months, and it is then another six months before the price drops. CHF wants this time period shortened so PBS drugs can get cheaper, faster.The delay in disclosure results in overpayments of about $3m a day\u00a0beyond the price that the UK currently pays for the same drugs, according to CHF \u2013 money which it says would be better used to fund other parts of our health system.\u201cWe know that up to 15% of consumers put off filling scripts because they can\u2019t afford the costs,\u201d the chief executive of CHF, Carol Bennett, told Guardian Australia.\u201cWe cannot afford to be spending a billion [dollars] more than comparable countries on medications, or we are simply going to end up missing out on new treatments and on other treatments,\u201d she said, adding that Australia pays about twice the amount that the UK and New Zealand pay for medications.\u201cThis is $2,000 a minute, that\u2019s 55 GP visits. It\u2019s five hip replacements or four coronary bypasses every hour. It\u2019s 54 nurses a day and that\u2019s 90,000 nurses working full-time for a whole year. This is a significant, enormous amount of money out of the health budget,\u201d Bennett said.By cutting down the reporting time of price drops and passing them on to consumers, more money would also be available to add new medications to the PBS, said Alan Kirkland, the CEO of consumer advocacy group CHOICE.\u201cThere are new drugs being invented and trialled and released for clinical use all the time,\u201d Kirkland told Guardian Australia.\u201cIf we can make sure that the cost of medications that are already on the PBS is as low as possible, it\u2019s more likely that we\u2019ll see new medications listed as they become available.\u201dA spokeswoman for the minister of health, Peter Dutton, told Guardian Australia that the 2007 price disclosure reforms had saved billions of dollars since they were introduced, but did not commit to any plans to shorten the time period.\u201cWhile the cost of medicines to taxpayers is very important, the government\u2019s priority is also to ensure Australian patients get timely and reliable access to innovative new treatments,\u201d said the spokeswoman.\u201cWhile some countries may pay less for some drugs, their systems can mean fewer innovative new treatments are available to their citizens. Some countries rely on just one supplier, risking shortages or disruption to supply.\u201cThe government will continue to look at ways to improve the system and get better prices, but I will also be conscious of the need to balance price with ensuring that patients get timely access to the drugs they need \u2013 this is ultimately why we have the PBS.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Pharmaceuticals industry", "Australian politics"], "title": "Prescription medicine: Australia spends $1bn too much "},{"date": "2013-09-30T14:43:18Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Listen on SoundcloudHome to Dick Diver and the Twerps, independent record label Chapter Music are the masterminds behind a low-key slacker pop revolution in Melbourne, and their most recent signing The Stevens fits snugly into this expanding stable.Led by Travis MacDonald and Twerps drummer Alex Macfarlane on guitars, the band was snapped up by Chapter following the release of their 2012 self-titled debut EP. New single Hindsight is their first official release since the signing. Clocking in at just over two minutes, it's a perfect slice of anxious Aussie pop. MacDonald's nasal vocals are mixed low and lazy alongside jittery guitar and sweet backing melodies, recalling The Church's earlier work as well as Orange Juice and The Wedding Present.The band came together thanks to a chance meeting between Macfarlane and MacDonald who bonded over a mutual love of bedroom recordings, Guided By Voices and (unsurprisingly) most Flying Nun recordings. Their debut album A History of Hygiene is due out on November 1 and features an impressive 24 songs over 44 minutes.Also on Faster Louder: The best things in music 2013More new musicMilwaukee Banks \u2013 Pluto Bounce: New music from AustraliaSeungri \u2013 Love Box: New music from South KoreaNischay Parekh \u2013 Panda: New music from India", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "The Stevens \u2013 Hindsight: New music from Australia"},{"date": "2013-08-26T23:11:59Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Whatever happens on 7 September, we already know who rules in Australia. We like to think of ourselves as an open and equal country with appropriate checks and balances but in truth, power is highly concentrated within our nation.Let\u2019s start with banking and finance. According to an IMF report last year, \"Australia\u2019s four major banks hold 80% of banking assets and 88% of residential mortgages,\" making Australia one of the most concentrated banking market in the world \u2013 more so than, for example, China or the US. The big four were also among the world\u2019s eight most profitable banks studied, demonstrating that they benefit substantially from their market domination.Within our retail food industry, the two supermarket giants Coles and Woolworths control between 55-60% of Australia\u2019s overall grocery share and up to 80% of dry groceries. We may want to buy our bread from corner bakeries, or fresh fruit from a family-owned grocer, but small business is squeezed out by the duopoly and their automated check-outs. Many claim their practices is bad for fair competition.Turning to our news supply, Australian newspaper circulation is among the most concentrated in the democratic world. Three companies \u2013 News Australia, Fairfax Media and APN collectively hold 98% of our print media circulation. Among the three, News Australia\u2019s daily and Sunday newspapers account for approximately two-thirds of all the dailies sold across the nation. And as the revenue model for traditional media collapses, the potential for corporate vested influence on newspapers becomes ever more likely, with obvious implications for political decision-making.Indeed, the sway of industry over our government is all too apparent. To cite two notorious examples, the mining industry\u2019s heavily resourced campaigns against a carbon price and a resource profits tax were key factors in Kevin Rudd and Malcolm Turnbull losing the leadership of their respective parties in 2010.The aggregation of control over our information, food, money and industry is darkly complemented by a fierce intolerance of dissent within Australia\u2019s two major political parties. According to research by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library, \"(p)arty discipline in Parliament is so strong that many analysts now refer to the Commonwealth as not having a system of responsible government but, instead, a system of responsible party government.\" An associated trend is ever greater power being concentrated in the executive.At a time in which social upheavals continue to erupt across the world \u2013 in which the central demand is always for a redistribution of power \u2013 politics in Australia feels curiously hermetic. As the election approaches, in stark disparity to the \"spring\" movements elsewhere, the leaves of an \"Australian autumn\" are falling \u2013 debate turns inwards, and the status quo is further entrenched. If anything, political and cultural debates seem to be narrowing, not broadening, reflecting what Simon Copland has described as an obsession with symbols rather than structures.The easy explanation, of course, is that Australia\u2019s overall prosperity and high levels of inter-generational mobility mean that the preconditions for major unrest simply don\u2019t exist here. But globalisation, neoliberalism and their discontents are experienced in varying ways in different states and regions. At the same time as political and economic power has been grasped by fewer and fewer hands in Australia, the majority of us have been subject to ever-increasing uncertainty as the old structures of our society have been corroded.\u00a0Australians as a whole may be comfortable and wealthy by any earthly standard, yet a sense of insecurity \u2013 of disempowerment \u2013 is rising. Restlessness about asylum-seekers, for example, can be interpreted as an expression of felt powerlessness, engendering anxieties which foreclose on the possibility of greater generosity towards refugees. As Richard Cooke has suggested, \"the boats issue has become the way in which the different classes of Australian society argue about globalisation.\" Popular concern about Australia\u2019s population levels can be understood in a similar way.The possibility exists in Australia for a new politics answering socio-economic anxiety with a political program reforming the structures that are really responsible for the experience of powerlessness. Otherwise, no matter how many poor sad souls are locked away in Papua New Guinea, nobody is going to feel any better and the fixed winners will remain those few who continue to wield too much influence over Australia.\u00a0", "tags": ["Australian election 2013", "Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia, land of market domination | David Ritter "},{"date": "2013-09-24T04:20:59Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia is spending $1bn a year more than it should on generic medication, costing the government money that could fund tens of thousands of extra nurses every year or pay for new government-subsidised medicines on the pharmaceutical benefits scheme (PBS), according to a consumer health campaign.Consumers Health Forum of Australia (CHF) is calling for the government to tighten up a policy that was originally introduced by the prime minister, Tony Abbott, when he was federal health minister, to see the savings of cheaper medicine passed on to taxpayers as soon as possible. It has launched an interactive which shows the \u201coverpayments\u201d adding up by the second.Currently, when pharmaceutical drugs become available and are listed for government subsidy on the PBS, the government negotiates a price with the manufacturer, which pharmacists then pay when they buy the medication and dispense it. However, when patents on these drugs end and cheaper generic versions become available for pharmacies to buy, the government can still be left reimbursing them for the higher pre-negotiated amount, unaware that the price has dropped. Pharmacists get to keep the difference.When medications become cheaper, manufacturers are obliged to inform the government within 12 months, and it is then another six months before the price drops. CHF wants this time period shortened so PBS drugs can get cheaper, faster.The delay in disclosure results in overpayments of about $3m a day\u00a0beyond the price that the UK currently pays for the same drugs, according to CHF \u2013 money which it says would be better used to fund other parts of our health system.\u201cWe know that up to 15% of consumers put off filling scripts because they can\u2019t afford the costs,\u201d the chief executive of CHF, Carol Bennett, told Guardian Australia.\u201cWe cannot afford to be spending a billion [dollars] more than comparable countries on medications, or we are simply going to end up missing out on new treatments and on other treatments,\u201d she said, adding that Australia pays about twice the amount that the UK and New Zealand pay for medications.\u201cThis is $2,000 a minute, that\u2019s 55 GP visits. It\u2019s five hip replacements or four coronary bypasses every hour. It\u2019s 54 nurses a day and that\u2019s 90,000 nurses working full-time for a whole year. This is a significant, enormous amount of money out of the health budget,\u201d Bennett said.By cutting down the reporting time of price drops and passing them on to consumers, more money would also be available to add new medications to the PBS, said Alan Kirkland, the CEO of consumer advocacy group CHOICE.\u201cThere are new drugs being invented and trialled and released for clinical use all the time,\u201d Kirkland told Guardian Australia.\u201cIf we can make sure that the cost of medications that are already on the PBS is as low as possible, it\u2019s more likely that we\u2019ll see new medications listed as they become available.\u201dA spokeswoman for the minister of health, Peter Dutton, told Guardian Australia that the 2007 price disclosure reforms had saved billions of dollars since they were introduced, but did not commit to any plans to shorten the time period.\u201cWhile the cost of medicines to taxpayers is very important, the government\u2019s priority is also to ensure Australian patients get timely and reliable access to innovative new treatments,\u201d said the spokeswoman.\u201cWhile some countries may pay less for some drugs, their systems can mean fewer innovative new treatments are available to their citizens. Some countries rely on just one supplier, risking shortages or disruption to supply.\u201cThe government will continue to look at ways to improve the system and get better prices, but I will also be conscious of the need to balance price with ensuring that patients get timely access to the drugs they need \u2013 this is ultimately why we have the PBS.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Pharmaceuticals industry", "Australian politics"], "title": "Prescription medicine: Australia spends $1bn too much "},{"date": "2013-09-30T14:43:18Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Listen on SoundcloudHome to Dick Diver and the Twerps, independent record label Chapter Music are the masterminds behind a low-key slacker pop revolution in Melbourne, and their most recent signing The Stevens fits snugly into this expanding stable.Led by Travis MacDonald and Twerps drummer Alex Macfarlane on guitars, the band was snapped up by Chapter following the release of their 2012 self-titled debut EP. New single Hindsight is their first official release since the signing. Clocking in at just over two minutes, it's a perfect slice of anxious Aussie pop. MacDonald's nasal vocals are mixed low and lazy alongside jittery guitar and sweet backing melodies, recalling The Church's earlier work as well as Orange Juice and The Wedding Present.The band came together thanks to a chance meeting between Macfarlane and MacDonald who bonded over a mutual love of bedroom recordings, Guided By Voices and (unsurprisingly) most Flying Nun recordings. Their debut album A History of Hygiene is due out on November 1 and features an impressive 24 songs over 44 minutes.Also on Faster Louder: The best things in music 2013More new musicMilwaukee Banks \u2013 Pluto Bounce: New music from AustraliaSeungri \u2013 Love Box: New music from South KoreaNischay Parekh \u2013 Panda: New music from India", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "The Stevens \u2013 Hindsight: New music from Australia"},{"date": "2013-09-23T23:48:26Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In what will be his first official visit to the country, Harry will mark the centenary of the first entry of the Royal Australian Navy\u2019s fleet into Sydney.The prince may visit other parts of Australia but at the moment the only place on his official itinerary is Sydney, although more details will be released closer to his arrival.The prime minister, Tony Abbott, welcomed the visit and said he would be joining Harry during his time in Australia.\u201cAustralians have great warmth towards members of the royal family,\u201d Abbott said.\u201cMembers of the royal family have enjoyed being in Australia and that pleasure is amply reciprocated by the Australian people.\u201dHarry spent his gap year in Australia in 2003 but on this visit he will be staying in an official capacity.", "tags": ["Prince Harry", "Australia news", "Sydney", "New South Wales"], "title": "Prince Harry will visit Australia in October"},{"date": "2013-08-26T23:11:59Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Whatever happens on 7 September, we already know who rules in Australia. We like to think of ourselves as an open and equal country with appropriate checks and balances but in truth, power is highly concentrated within our nation.Let\u2019s start with banking and finance. According to an IMF report last year, \"Australia\u2019s four major banks hold 80% of banking assets and 88% of residential mortgages,\" making Australia one of the most concentrated banking market in the world \u2013 more so than, for example, China or the US. The big four were also among the world\u2019s eight most profitable banks studied, demonstrating that they benefit substantially from their market domination.Within our retail food industry, the two supermarket giants Coles and Woolworths control between 55-60% of Australia\u2019s overall grocery share and up to 80% of dry groceries. We may want to buy our bread from corner bakeries, or fresh fruit from a family-owned grocer, but small business is squeezed out by the duopoly and their automated check-outs. Many claim their practices is bad for fair competition.Turning to our news supply, Australian newspaper circulation is among the most concentrated in the democratic world. Three companies \u2013 News Australia, Fairfax Media and APN collectively hold 98% of our print media circulation. Among the three, News Australia\u2019s daily and Sunday newspapers account for approximately two-thirds of all the dailies sold across the nation. And as the revenue model for traditional media collapses, the potential for corporate vested influence on newspapers becomes ever more likely, with obvious implications for political decision-making.Indeed, the sway of industry over our government is all too apparent. To cite two notorious examples, the mining industry\u2019s heavily resourced campaigns against a carbon price and a resource profits tax were key factors in Kevin Rudd and Malcolm Turnbull losing the leadership of their respective parties in 2010.The aggregation of control over our information, food, money and industry is darkly complemented by a fierce intolerance of dissent within Australia\u2019s two major political parties. According to research by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library, \"(p)arty discipline in Parliament is so strong that many analysts now refer to the Commonwealth as not having a system of responsible government but, instead, a system of responsible party government.\" An associated trend is ever greater power being concentrated in the executive.At a time in which social upheavals continue to erupt across the world \u2013 in which the central demand is always for a redistribution of power \u2013 politics in Australia feels curiously hermetic. As the election approaches, in stark disparity to the \"spring\" movements elsewhere, the leaves of an \"Australian autumn\" are falling \u2013 debate turns inwards, and the status quo is further entrenched. If anything, political and cultural debates seem to be narrowing, not broadening, reflecting what Simon Copland has described as an obsession with symbols rather than structures.The easy explanation, of course, is that Australia\u2019s overall prosperity and high levels of inter-generational mobility mean that the preconditions for major unrest simply don\u2019t exist here. But globalisation, neoliberalism and their discontents are experienced in varying ways in different states and regions. At the same time as political and economic power has been grasped by fewer and fewer hands in Australia, the majority of us have been subject to ever-increasing uncertainty as the old structures of our society have been corroded.\u00a0Australians as a whole may be comfortable and wealthy by any earthly standard, yet a sense of insecurity \u2013 of disempowerment \u2013 is rising. Restlessness about asylum-seekers, for example, can be interpreted as an expression of felt powerlessness, engendering anxieties which foreclose on the possibility of greater generosity towards refugees. As Richard Cooke has suggested, \"the boats issue has become the way in which the different classes of Australian society argue about globalisation.\" Popular concern about Australia\u2019s population levels can be understood in a similar way.The possibility exists in Australia for a new politics answering socio-economic anxiety with a political program reforming the structures that are really responsible for the experience of powerlessness. Otherwise, no matter how many poor sad souls are locked away in Papua New Guinea, nobody is going to feel any better and the fixed winners will remain those few who continue to wield too much influence over Australia.\u00a0", "tags": ["Australian election 2013", "Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia, land of market domination | David Ritter "},{"date": "2013-09-24T04:20:59Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia is spending $1bn a year more than it should on generic medication, costing the government money that could fund tens of thousands of extra nurses every year or pay for new government-subsidised medicines on the pharmaceutical benefits scheme (PBS), according to a consumer health campaign.Consumers Health Forum of Australia (CHF) is calling for the government to tighten up a policy that was originally introduced by the prime minister, Tony Abbott, when he was federal health minister, to see the savings of cheaper medicine passed on to taxpayers as soon as possible. It has launched an interactive which shows the \u201coverpayments\u201d adding up by the second.Currently, when pharmaceutical drugs become available and are listed for government subsidy on the PBS, the government negotiates a price with the manufacturer, which pharmacists then pay when they buy the medication and dispense it. However, when patents on these drugs end and cheaper generic versions become available for pharmacies to buy, the government can still be left reimbursing them for the higher pre-negotiated amount, unaware that the price has dropped. Pharmacists get to keep the difference.When medications become cheaper, manufacturers are obliged to inform the government within 12 months, and it is then another six months before the price drops. CHF wants this time period shortened so PBS drugs can get cheaper, faster.The delay in disclosure results in overpayments of about $3m a day\u00a0beyond the price that the UK currently pays for the same drugs, according to CHF \u2013 money which it says would be better used to fund other parts of our health system.\u201cWe know that up to 15% of consumers put off filling scripts because they can\u2019t afford the costs,\u201d the chief executive of CHF, Carol Bennett, told Guardian Australia.\u201cWe cannot afford to be spending a billion [dollars] more than comparable countries on medications, or we are simply going to end up missing out on new treatments and on other treatments,\u201d she said, adding that Australia pays about twice the amount that the UK and New Zealand pay for medications.\u201cThis is $2,000 a minute, that\u2019s 55 GP visits. It\u2019s five hip replacements or four coronary bypasses every hour. It\u2019s 54 nurses a day and that\u2019s 90,000 nurses working full-time for a whole year. This is a significant, enormous amount of money out of the health budget,\u201d Bennett said.By cutting down the reporting time of price drops and passing them on to consumers, more money would also be available to add new medications to the PBS, said Alan Kirkland, the CEO of consumer advocacy group CHOICE.\u201cThere are new drugs being invented and trialled and released for clinical use all the time,\u201d Kirkland told Guardian Australia.\u201cIf we can make sure that the cost of medications that are already on the PBS is as low as possible, it\u2019s more likely that we\u2019ll see new medications listed as they become available.\u201dA spokeswoman for the minister of health, Peter Dutton, told Guardian Australia that the 2007 price disclosure reforms had saved billions of dollars since they were introduced, but did not commit to any plans to shorten the time period.\u201cWhile the cost of medicines to taxpayers is very important, the government\u2019s priority is also to ensure Australian patients get timely and reliable access to innovative new treatments,\u201d said the spokeswoman.\u201cWhile some countries may pay less for some drugs, their systems can mean fewer innovative new treatments are available to their citizens. Some countries rely on just one supplier, risking shortages or disruption to supply.\u201cThe government will continue to look at ways to improve the system and get better prices, but I will also be conscious of the need to balance price with ensuring that patients get timely access to the drugs they need \u2013 this is ultimately why we have the PBS.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Pharmaceuticals industry", "Australian politics"], "title": "Prescription medicine: Australia spends $1bn too much "},{"date": "2013-09-30T14:43:18Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Listen on SoundcloudHome to Dick Diver and the Twerps, independent record label Chapter Music are the masterminds behind a low-key slacker pop revolution in Melbourne, and their most recent signing The Stevens fits snugly into this expanding stable.Led by Travis MacDonald and Twerps drummer Alex Macfarlane on guitars, the band was snapped up by Chapter following the release of their 2012 self-titled debut EP. New single Hindsight is their first official release since the signing. Clocking in at just over two minutes, it's a perfect slice of anxious Aussie pop. MacDonald's nasal vocals are mixed low and lazy alongside jittery guitar and sweet backing melodies, recalling The Church's earlier work as well as Orange Juice and The Wedding Present.The band came together thanks to a chance meeting between Macfarlane and MacDonald who bonded over a mutual love of bedroom recordings, Guided By Voices and (unsurprisingly) most Flying Nun recordings. Their debut album A History of Hygiene is due out on November 1 and features an impressive 24 songs over 44 minutes.Also on Faster Louder: The best things in music 2013More new musicMilwaukee Banks \u2013 Pluto Bounce: New music from AustraliaSeungri \u2013 Love Box: New music from South KoreaNischay Parekh \u2013 Panda: New music from India", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "The Stevens \u2013 Hindsight: New music from Australia"},{"date": "2013-09-23T23:48:26Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In what will be his first official visit to the country, Harry will mark the centenary of the first entry of the Royal Australian Navy\u2019s fleet into Sydney.The prince may visit other parts of Australia but at the moment the only place on his official itinerary is Sydney, although more details will be released closer to his arrival.The prime minister, Tony Abbott, welcomed the visit and said he would be joining Harry during his time in Australia.\u201cAustralians have great warmth towards members of the royal family,\u201d Abbott said.\u201cMembers of the royal family have enjoyed being in Australia and that pleasure is amply reciprocated by the Australian people.\u201dHarry spent his gap year in Australia in 2003 but on this visit he will be staying in an official capacity.", "tags": ["Prince Harry", "Australia news", "Sydney", "New South Wales"], "title": "Prince Harry will visit Australia in October"},{"date": "2013-09-16T23:49:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Climate change has become a political football in Australia in a game with few rules and, depending on your chosen sporting code, plenty of illegal spear tackling and studs-up challenges.To continue with our sporting analogy, Australia\u2019s prime minister elect Tony Abbott has just taken the climate change ball and locked it in a cupboard at the back of the official residence. And in the same cupboard, there\u2019s a fancy-looking box with the word \u201cscience\u201d written on it (there is some awesome stuff in there, including iPhones, advances in agriculture and the occasional medical breakthrough).Abbott\u2019s first cabinet, announced yesterday, has a\u00a0front bench team comprised of ministers for defence, immigration and border protection, the arts, agriculture, health and sport and small business, among others. Yet there will be no minister for science. Abbott suggested to reporters this would come under the portfolio of Ian Macfarlane, who was yesterday named minister for industry. In opposition, Greg Hunt\u2019s position was the shadow minister for climate action, environment and heritage. Abbott has taken his eraser to Hunt\u2019s title, rubbing out the words \u201cclimate action\u201d and \u201cheritage\u201d.Science didn\u2019t exactly stick out like a Higgs Boson in the previous government\u2019s ministry either. Senator Kim Carr was officially the minister for innovation, industry, science and research in a department with a name so long it could be barely uttered in a single breath (OK \u2013 I exaggerate, it was the department of industry, innovation, climate change, science, research and tertiary education).One Liberal MP disappointed with the lack of a science portfolio would be the member for Tangney, Dennis Jensen, who told the media last week he was the right person for the job-that-wasn\u2019t. Jensen also had a few thoughts about climate change and my questions to him about his partial-endorsement of climate sceptic Lord Christopher Monckton remain unanswered.Jensen won\u2019t be alone in bemoaning the lack of an obvious portfolio for science. Around 68,000 \u201cscientists and technologists\u201d are also scratching their heads waiting for answers, according to Catriona Jackson, the chief executive of Science & Technology Australia, the body which represents them.She said earlier: \u201cScientists around the nation are asking, where is the science minister?\u2019\u201d She told me the nation\u2019s scientists would be \u201cconfused and disappointed\u201d by the absence of an obvious ministerial position to represent a sector which, she said, was \u201cat the heart of everything that government does\u201d. She added that Abbott's plans for science will be clearer when the detailed administrative arrangements are released \u201cany day now\u201d, but we might presume Macfarlane\u2019s portfolio will also include energy (another key word missing from the list of titles), giving the new industry minister a role very similar to that which he played under the government of John Howard.Back in 2006, Macfarlane was named by academic, author and public intellectual Clive Hamilton as being amongst a \u201cdirty dozen\u201d of Australians characterised as the \u201cgreenhouse mafia\u201d who had worked harder than any others to \u201cprevent any effective action to reduce Australia\u2019s burgeoning greenhouse gas emissions\u201d. In an interview with the ABC in 2007, Macfarlane was pressed on his views about human-caused climate change and was unconvincing in his response.Thankfully since then, the implications for policy makers from the science on human-caused climate change have become clearer (not that they weren\u2019t clear back then). It\u2019s happening, it\u2019s us and we should take it really seriously. The fossil fuel industry will be hoping that Macfarlane\u2019s views haven\u2019t changed.Hunt has always insisted that human-caused climate change is a serious issue. Now he just needs to go and ask the boss if he can get the ball out of the cupboard and do something meaningful with it. The signs are not good.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Tony Abbott", "Science", "Coalition", "Liberal party", "Climate change", "Climate change", "Climate change scepticism"], "title": "Australia, where is your science minister? | Graham Readfearn"},{"date": "2013-08-26T23:11:59Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Whatever happens on 7 September, we already know who rules in Australia. We like to think of ourselves as an open and equal country with appropriate checks and balances but in truth, power is highly concentrated within our nation.Let\u2019s start with banking and finance. According to an IMF report last year, \"Australia\u2019s four major banks hold 80% of banking assets and 88% of residential mortgages,\" making Australia one of the most concentrated banking market in the world \u2013 more so than, for example, China or the US. The big four were also among the world\u2019s eight most profitable banks studied, demonstrating that they benefit substantially from their market domination.Within our retail food industry, the two supermarket giants Coles and Woolworths control between 55-60% of Australia\u2019s overall grocery share and up to 80% of dry groceries. We may want to buy our bread from corner bakeries, or fresh fruit from a family-owned grocer, but small business is squeezed out by the duopoly and their automated check-outs. Many claim their practices is bad for fair competition.Turning to our news supply, Australian newspaper circulation is among the most concentrated in the democratic world. Three companies \u2013 News Australia, Fairfax Media and APN collectively hold 98% of our print media circulation. Among the three, News Australia\u2019s daily and Sunday newspapers account for approximately two-thirds of all the dailies sold across the nation. And as the revenue model for traditional media collapses, the potential for corporate vested influence on newspapers becomes ever more likely, with obvious implications for political decision-making.Indeed, the sway of industry over our government is all too apparent. To cite two notorious examples, the mining industry\u2019s heavily resourced campaigns against a carbon price and a resource profits tax were key factors in Kevin Rudd and Malcolm Turnbull losing the leadership of their respective parties in 2010.The aggregation of control over our information, food, money and industry is darkly complemented by a fierce intolerance of dissent within Australia\u2019s two major political parties. According to research by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library, \"(p)arty discipline in Parliament is so strong that many analysts now refer to the Commonwealth as not having a system of responsible government but, instead, a system of responsible party government.\" An associated trend is ever greater power being concentrated in the executive.At a time in which social upheavals continue to erupt across the world \u2013 in which the central demand is always for a redistribution of power \u2013 politics in Australia feels curiously hermetic. As the election approaches, in stark disparity to the \"spring\" movements elsewhere, the leaves of an \"Australian autumn\" are falling \u2013 debate turns inwards, and the status quo is further entrenched. If anything, political and cultural debates seem to be narrowing, not broadening, reflecting what Simon Copland has described as an obsession with symbols rather than structures.The easy explanation, of course, is that Australia\u2019s overall prosperity and high levels of inter-generational mobility mean that the preconditions for major unrest simply don\u2019t exist here. But globalisation, neoliberalism and their discontents are experienced in varying ways in different states and regions. At the same time as political and economic power has been grasped by fewer and fewer hands in Australia, the majority of us have been subject to ever-increasing uncertainty as the old structures of our society have been corroded.\u00a0Australians as a whole may be comfortable and wealthy by any earthly standard, yet a sense of insecurity \u2013 of disempowerment \u2013 is rising. Restlessness about asylum-seekers, for example, can be interpreted as an expression of felt powerlessness, engendering anxieties which foreclose on the possibility of greater generosity towards refugees. As Richard Cooke has suggested, \"the boats issue has become the way in which the different classes of Australian society argue about globalisation.\" Popular concern about Australia\u2019s population levels can be understood in a similar way.The possibility exists in Australia for a new politics answering socio-economic anxiety with a political program reforming the structures that are really responsible for the experience of powerlessness. Otherwise, no matter how many poor sad souls are locked away in Papua New Guinea, nobody is going to feel any better and the fixed winners will remain those few who continue to wield too much influence over Australia.\u00a0", "tags": ["Australian election 2013", "Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "Australia, land of market domination | David Ritter "},{"date": "2013-09-24T04:20:59Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia is spending $1bn a year more than it should on generic medication, costing the government money that could fund tens of thousands of extra nurses every year or pay for new government-subsidised medicines on the pharmaceutical benefits scheme (PBS), according to a consumer health campaign.Consumers Health Forum of Australia (CHF) is calling for the government to tighten up a policy that was originally introduced by the prime minister, Tony Abbott, when he was federal health minister, to see the savings of cheaper medicine passed on to taxpayers as soon as possible. It has launched an interactive which shows the \u201coverpayments\u201d adding up by the second.Currently, when pharmaceutical drugs become available and are listed for government subsidy on the PBS, the government negotiates a price with the manufacturer, which pharmacists then pay when they buy the medication and dispense it. However, when patents on these drugs end and cheaper generic versions become available for pharmacies to buy, the government can still be left reimbursing them for the higher pre-negotiated amount, unaware that the price has dropped. Pharmacists get to keep the difference.When medications become cheaper, manufacturers are obliged to inform the government within 12 months, and it is then another six months before the price drops. CHF wants this time period shortened so PBS drugs can get cheaper, faster.The delay in disclosure results in overpayments of about $3m a day\u00a0beyond the price that the UK currently pays for the same drugs, according to CHF \u2013 money which it says would be better used to fund other parts of our health system.\u201cWe know that up to 15% of consumers put off filling scripts because they can\u2019t afford the costs,\u201d the chief executive of CHF, Carol Bennett, told Guardian Australia.\u201cWe cannot afford to be spending a billion [dollars] more than comparable countries on medications, or we are simply going to end up missing out on new treatments and on other treatments,\u201d she said, adding that Australia pays about twice the amount that the UK and New Zealand pay for medications.\u201cThis is $2,000 a minute, that\u2019s 55 GP visits. It\u2019s five hip replacements or four coronary bypasses every hour. It\u2019s 54 nurses a day and that\u2019s 90,000 nurses working full-time for a whole year. This is a significant, enormous amount of money out of the health budget,\u201d Bennett said.By cutting down the reporting time of price drops and passing them on to consumers, more money would also be available to add new medications to the PBS, said Alan Kirkland, the CEO of consumer advocacy group CHOICE.\u201cThere are new drugs being invented and trialled and released for clinical use all the time,\u201d Kirkland told Guardian Australia.\u201cIf we can make sure that the cost of medications that are already on the PBS is as low as possible, it\u2019s more likely that we\u2019ll see new medications listed as they become available.\u201dA spokeswoman for the minister of health, Peter Dutton, told Guardian Australia that the 2007 price disclosure reforms had saved billions of dollars since they were introduced, but did not commit to any plans to shorten the time period.\u201cWhile the cost of medicines to taxpayers is very important, the government\u2019s priority is also to ensure Australian patients get timely and reliable access to innovative new treatments,\u201d said the spokeswoman.\u201cWhile some countries may pay less for some drugs, their systems can mean fewer innovative new treatments are available to their citizens. Some countries rely on just one supplier, risking shortages or disruption to supply.\u201cThe government will continue to look at ways to improve the system and get better prices, but I will also be conscious of the need to balance price with ensuring that patients get timely access to the drugs they need \u2013 this is ultimately why we have the PBS.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Pharmaceuticals industry", "Australian politics"], "title": "Prescription medicine: Australia spends $1bn too much "},{"date": "2013-09-30T14:43:18Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Listen on SoundcloudHome to Dick Diver and the Twerps, independent record label Chapter Music are the masterminds behind a low-key slacker pop revolution in Melbourne, and their most recent signing The Stevens fits snugly into this expanding stable.Led by Travis MacDonald and Twerps drummer Alex Macfarlane on guitars, the band was snapped up by Chapter following the release of their 2012 self-titled debut EP. New single Hindsight is their first official release since the signing. Clocking in at just over two minutes, it's a perfect slice of anxious Aussie pop. MacDonald's nasal vocals are mixed low and lazy alongside jittery guitar and sweet backing melodies, recalling The Church's earlier work as well as Orange Juice and The Wedding Present.The band came together thanks to a chance meeting between Macfarlane and MacDonald who bonded over a mutual love of bedroom recordings, Guided By Voices and (unsurprisingly) most Flying Nun recordings. Their debut album A History of Hygiene is due out on November 1 and features an impressive 24 songs over 44 minutes.Also on Faster Louder: The best things in music 2013More new musicMilwaukee Banks \u2013 Pluto Bounce: New music from AustraliaSeungri \u2013 Love Box: New music from South KoreaNischay Parekh \u2013 Panda: New music from India", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "The Stevens \u2013 Hindsight: New music from Australia"},{"date": "2013-09-23T23:48:26Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In what will be his first official visit to the country, Harry will mark the centenary of the first entry of the Royal Australian Navy\u2019s fleet into Sydney.The prince may visit other parts of Australia but at the moment the only place on his official itinerary is Sydney, although more details will be released closer to his arrival.The prime minister, Tony Abbott, welcomed the visit and said he would be joining Harry during his time in Australia.\u201cAustralians have great warmth towards members of the royal family,\u201d Abbott said.\u201cMembers of the royal family have enjoyed being in Australia and that pleasure is amply reciprocated by the Australian people.\u201dHarry spent his gap year in Australia in 2003 but on this visit he will be staying in an official capacity.", "tags": ["Prince Harry", "Australia news", "Sydney", "New South Wales"], "title": "Prince Harry will visit Australia in October"},{"date": "2013-09-16T23:49:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Climate change has become a political football in Australia in a game with few rules and, depending on your chosen sporting code, plenty of illegal spear tackling and studs-up challenges.To continue with our sporting analogy, Australia\u2019s prime minister elect Tony Abbott has just taken the climate change ball and locked it in a cupboard at the back of the official residence. And in the same cupboard, there\u2019s a fancy-looking box with the word \u201cscience\u201d written on it (there is some awesome stuff in there, including iPhones, advances in agriculture and the occasional medical breakthrough).Abbott\u2019s first cabinet, announced yesterday, has a\u00a0front bench team comprised of ministers for defence, immigration and border protection, the arts, agriculture, health and sport and small business, among others. Yet there will be no minister for science. Abbott suggested to reporters this would come under the portfolio of Ian Macfarlane, who was yesterday named minister for industry. In opposition, Greg Hunt\u2019s position was the shadow minister for climate action, environment and heritage. Abbott has taken his eraser to Hunt\u2019s title, rubbing out the words \u201cclimate action\u201d and \u201cheritage\u201d.Science didn\u2019t exactly stick out like a Higgs Boson in the previous government\u2019s ministry either. Senator Kim Carr was officially the minister for innovation, industry, science and research in a department with a name so long it could be barely uttered in a single breath (OK \u2013 I exaggerate, it was the department of industry, innovation, climate change, science, research and tertiary education).One Liberal MP disappointed with the lack of a science portfolio would be the member for Tangney, Dennis Jensen, who told the media last week he was the right person for the job-that-wasn\u2019t. Jensen also had a few thoughts about climate change and my questions to him about his partial-endorsement of climate sceptic Lord Christopher Monckton remain unanswered.Jensen won\u2019t be alone in bemoaning the lack of an obvious portfolio for science. Around 68,000 \u201cscientists and technologists\u201d are also scratching their heads waiting for answers, according to Catriona Jackson, the chief executive of Science & Technology Australia, the body which represents them.She said earlier: \u201cScientists around the nation are asking, where is the science minister?\u2019\u201d She told me the nation\u2019s scientists would be \u201cconfused and disappointed\u201d by the absence of an obvious ministerial position to represent a sector which, she said, was \u201cat the heart of everything that government does\u201d. She added that Abbott's plans for science will be clearer when the detailed administrative arrangements are released \u201cany day now\u201d, but we might presume Macfarlane\u2019s portfolio will also include energy (another key word missing from the list of titles), giving the new industry minister a role very similar to that which he played under the government of John Howard.Back in 2006, Macfarlane was named by academic, author and public intellectual Clive Hamilton as being amongst a \u201cdirty dozen\u201d of Australians characterised as the \u201cgreenhouse mafia\u201d who had worked harder than any others to \u201cprevent any effective action to reduce Australia\u2019s burgeoning greenhouse gas emissions\u201d. In an interview with the ABC in 2007, Macfarlane was pressed on his views about human-caused climate change and was unconvincing in his response.Thankfully since then, the implications for policy makers from the science on human-caused climate change have become clearer (not that they weren\u2019t clear back then). It\u2019s happening, it\u2019s us and we should take it really seriously. The fossil fuel industry will be hoping that Macfarlane\u2019s views haven\u2019t changed.Hunt has always insisted that human-caused climate change is a serious issue. Now he just needs to go and ask the boss if he can get the ball out of the cupboard and do something meaningful with it. The signs are not good.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Tony Abbott", "Science", "Coalition", "Liberal party", "Climate change", "Climate change", "Climate change scepticism"], "title": "Australia, where is your science minister? | Graham Readfearn"},{"date": "2013-09-16T04:51:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "On Sunday we learned two things. The first is that football in Victoria isn't perhaps as clean as we thought. The second is that VPL isn't simply an acronym for the Victorian Premier League, but also Twitter slang for \"visible panty line\". A diverse hashtag, by midday it was trending in Australia. It was the best, if the most bizarre story of the day. Fairfax Media alleged that an organised syndicate has been fixing the outcome of matches in the Victorian Premier League \u2013 the club in question, Southern Stars, have denied any knowledge of the claims \u2013 apparently earning millions of dollars from the fixtures off Asian betting markets. If nothing else, it made Nick 'Queenslander' Meredith look like a prophet after this timely op-ed piece on the FFA's website a little over three weeks ago.  Having organised a press conference within hours of the news, the FFA came out on the front foot, with David Gallop assuring us all that \"the integrity of football will be protected\", and that the detection systems are working. According to Victoria Police, the FFA pointed them in the direction of the syndicate after several suspiciously heavy losses were incurred by Southern Stars, a club based in Melbourne's south-eastern suburbs.  The FFA was tipped off by Sportsradar, a sports betting intelligence agency based in Switzerland. The Southern Stars position at the bottom of the competition ladder, not to mention some comically bad performances had raised questions with the Swiss company.  While match-fixing is hardly a new phenomenon in football, the fact that the VPL has been involved in allegations may come as a surprise to many. The metropolitan Melbourne football competition is hardly a bastion of glitz and glamour, with most of the players on semi-professional contracts for community clubs that are organised on the sweat of volunteers. With precious little media promotion in Victoria, most VPL matches struggle to attract more than 1,000 fans. Perhaps this is part of the problem. According to a 2012 FIFPro report, player mistreatment is a root cause of match-fixing. If players are paid low wages there is a real possibility they may be tempted by match-fixing syndicates. A lower league competition that relatively few people care about makes for easier pickings. As David Gallop admitted: \"This highlights the fact that lower league games, which aren't under the scrutiny of things like TV broadcasts, are potentially more susceptible to this kind of activity.\"In this case, those accused of being involved have come from overseas to play in the European off-season.  While a high-ranking Football Federation Victoria official said that the FFV was \"shocked\" at the developments in a press release, perhaps a few questions need to be asked of the state's governing body. How is it possible for alarm bells not to ring when five foreign players waltz into one club, with no desire to be paid for their services? The Southern Stars president, Ercan Cicek, explained to AAP yesterday that the board said \"Oh beautiful, five players for free, we're not going to pay anything, it's a big big bonus.\"  According to one VPL club official, it has been common knowledge that Southern Stars are broke for at least a year. While praising the FFA on its diligence, the official, who didn't want to be named, expressed his dismay that the FFV allowed the Stars to sign so many players in the transfer window.  Whether this should have been enough to grab the attention of the FFV may be a moot point now. The season has been tainted, which only adds to the woes for the state's governing body. The FFV is also fighting a court case involving many of the state's biggest clubs over the rollout of a new state competition, which is scheduled to begin next season.  Fairfax have revealed that the main suspect is \"the world's biggest match fixer\" Wilson Raj Perumal, who operates from Hungary. The events will no doubt act as a cautionary tale for the FFA, not to mention other sports. Illegal sports betting has found a comfortable niche on our doorstep in south east Asia, and tackling the issue is made all the more difficult by the fact that it is beyond Australia's jurisdiction. As Sean Ingle pointed out recently in the Guardian, legalising betting in south east Asia may help, but is more of a pipe dream than a realistic solution. In February this year, the Victorian deputy police commissioner, Graham Ashton, told Fairfax that match fixing was \"this thing coming down the highway and we have to be prepared.\" Now that it has arrived, Ashton says that it's \"just the tip of the iceberg.\"", "tags": ["Match-fixing", "Football", "Australia sport"], "title": "Australia a prime target for match-fixers"},{"date": "2013-12-12T11:36:29Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In two run-down caravans and a couple of old tents on a farm in some of Australia's best wool-growing country, a dark secret of intergenerational incest and child abuse that has dominated the lives of 40 members of one family for decades has come to light.In a community of around 2,000 people, three and a half hours' drive south-west of Sydney, genetic testing has shown 11 children in one family have parents who are related to each other, some closely. Questions are now being asked about why it took authorities so long to act on warnings that children were at risk.Each child had suffered years of sexual abuse, perpetrated by brothers, sisters, cousins, fathers, an uncle and a grandfather over four generations.The extended family first came to the attention of authorities in June 2010. Over the next two years, seven 'risk of significant harm reports' were issued, mostly relating to neglect, failure to seek necessary medical attention and failure to ensure the children attended school.The makeshift camp where the family lived had no running water or toilets. The children did not know how to use toilet paper and some could not brush their teeth and ate with their hands. Dirt covered one of the caravan's cooking facilities and rotten vegetables lay in a fridge. A kangaroo slept on one of the children's beds.Initially the family complied with a request in June 2012 from social services to improve their living conditions but a month later 12 children, all cousins, ranging in age from five to 15 years, were removed by police after the authorities concluded that they would be at risk of harm if they remained at the property.The children were filthy, malnourished and barely able to speak. Some had moderate intellectual disabilities and could not be understood by social workers. Others had chronic hearing, sight and dental issues. One child, a nine year-old girl, was described as having 'dysmorphic' features. None had attended school regularly, if at all.It soon emerged these children have been living a nightmare that went far beyond neglect. Assessed by psychologists and social workers, the children exhibited sexualised behaviour and reported that they had engaged in \"inappropriate sexual conduct\" with each other.The intergenerational abuse is thought to date back 40 years. The grandparents of the children removed, Timothy and June Colt (pseudonyms given to them by the court), married in New Zealand in 1966. They had seven children, Rhonda, Betty, Cherry, Frank, Charlie, Paula and Martha (all pseudonyms). The family moved to Australia, living in various locations across four states.Three of Timothy and June's daughters \u2013 Betty, 46, Rhonda, 47, and Martha, 33 \u2013 who lived together in squalor on the rural property, are mothers to 11 of the 12 children removed. The fourth mother is Betty's 30-year-old daughter, Raylene.Only Rhonda's five-year-old daughter was found not to have been fathered by a blood relative.Betty, Martha and Raylene each deny that their children are the progeny of incestuous relationships, despite the fact that genetic testing has proved otherwiseThree of the girls aged seven, eight and nine claimed that their uncle, Charlie Colt, was also their father. He lived on the property when the children were removed. The nine year-old also claimed Charlie Colt had sex with her.It's believed that the family patriarch, Timothy Colt, who died in 2009, fathered children with one of his daughters and one of his granddaughters.Five of the boys removed also admitted to torturing animals on the farm including puppies and cats. They also said they had mutilated the genitals of animals.All of the removed children will remain in care until the age of 18. The case came to light after the children's court of New South Wales took the unusual step of publishing its judgment in the case.", "tags": ["Australia news", "New South Wales", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Child protection"], "title": "Australia incest case shocks country"},{"date": "2013-12-12T11:36:29Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In two run-down caravans and a couple of old tents on a farm in some of Australia's best wool-growing country, a dark secret of intergenerational incest and child abuse that has dominated the lives of 40 members of one family for decades has come to light.In a community of around 2,000 people, three and a half hours' drive south-west of Sydney, genetic testing has shown 11 children in one family have parents who are related to each other, some closely. Questions are now being asked about why it took authorities so long to act on warnings that children were at risk.Each child had suffered years of sexual abuse, perpetrated by brothers, sisters, cousins, fathers, an uncle and a grandfather over four generations.The extended family first came to the attention of authorities in June 2010. Over the next two years, seven 'risk of significant harm reports' were issued, mostly relating to neglect, failure to seek necessary medical attention and failure to ensure the children attended school.The makeshift camp where the family lived had no running water or toilets. The children did not know how to use toilet paper and some could not brush their teeth and ate with their hands. Dirt covered one of the caravan's cooking facilities and rotten vegetables lay in a fridge. A kangaroo slept on one of the children's beds.Initially the family complied with a request in June 2012 from social services to improve their living conditions but a month later 12 children, all cousins, ranging in age from five to 15 years, were removed by police after the authorities concluded that they would be at risk of harm if they remained at the property.The children were filthy, malnourished and barely able to speak. Some had moderate intellectual disabilities and could not be understood by social workers. Others had chronic hearing, sight and dental issues. One child, a nine year-old girl, was described as having 'dysmorphic' features. None had attended school regularly, if at all.It soon emerged these children have been living a nightmare that went far beyond neglect. Assessed by psychologists and social workers, the children exhibited sexualised behaviour and reported that they had engaged in \"inappropriate sexual conduct\" with each other.The intergenerational abuse is thought to date back 40 years. The grandparents of the children removed, Timothy and June Colt (pseudonyms given to them by the court), married in New Zealand in 1966. They had seven children, Rhonda, Betty, Cherry, Frank, Charlie, Paula and Martha (all pseudonyms). The family moved to Australia, living in various locations across four states.Three of Timothy and June's daughters \u2013 Betty, 46, Rhonda, 47, and Martha, 33 \u2013 who lived together in squalor on the rural property, are mothers to 11 of the 12 children removed. The fourth mother is Betty's 30-year-old daughter, Raylene.Only Rhonda's five-year-old daughter was found not to have been fathered by a blood relative.Betty, Martha and Raylene each deny that their children are the progeny of incestuous relationships, despite the fact that genetic testing has proved otherwiseThree of the girls aged seven, eight and nine claimed that their uncle, Charlie Colt, was also their father. He lived on the property when the children were removed. The nine year-old also claimed Charlie Colt had sex with her.It's believed that the family patriarch, Timothy Colt, who died in 2009, fathered children with one of his daughters and one of his granddaughters.Five of the boys removed also admitted to torturing animals on the farm including puppies and cats. They also said they had mutilated the genitals of animals.All of the removed children will remain in care until the age of 18. The case came to light after the children's court of New South Wales took the unusual step of publishing its judgment in the case.", "tags": ["Australia news", "New South Wales", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Child protection"], "title": "Australia incest case shocks country"},{"date": "2013-11-28T22:00:10Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Guardian Australia has won a Walkley award for multimedia storytelling for Firestorm, an interactive project centred around the January bushfire in Dunalley, Tasmania.The judges said\u00a0Firestorm \u201cbrought to life\u201d the story of the Holmes family \u2013 whose photos of them fleeing the Dunalley fire and sheltering under a jetty were seen all over the world \u2013 through text, photographs, video, audio and graphics.\u201cCombining text with vivid imagery and high-quality video, they have woven their narrative into a compelling and immersive multimedia reconstruction,\u201d read the judgment.Guardian Australia launched just six months ago.\u201cWe are delighted to be recognised by the Walkleys for our digital journalism so soon after launching the Guardian in Australia,\u201d said the editor-in-chief, Katharine Viner.\u201cWe're trying to find innovative ways to tell Australian stories and Firestorm has had a global impact. Thanks to our fantastic readers for welcoming us so warmly.\u201dThe annual award ceremony which recognises excellence in Australian journalism was held in Brisbane and hosted by the ABC Lateline presenter Emma Alberici.Guardian Australia\u2019s deputy political editor, Katharine Murphy, was nominated for for commentary, analysis, opinion and critique for her articles analysing the leadership of former prime minister Julia Gillard and exploring the values that drive the prime minister, Tony Abbott.The nominated body of work included Julia Gillard: where did it all go wrong?, Tony Abbott has another rival in the toughest race of his life \u2013 himself and Tony Abbott keeps the Catholic faith, quietly.The Gold Walkley, the highest accolade, went to the\u00a0Newcastle Herald journalist Joanne McCarthy, whose work investigating child sexual abuse within the Newcastle and Hunter region Catholic clergy led to the royal commission.The presenter of ABC TV\u2019s Australian Story, Caroline Jones, won the Walkley for outstanding contribution to journalism, and Gerard Ryle, director of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, won the leadership award.", "tags": ["Media", "Awards and prizes", "Australia news", "Bushfires"], "title": "Guardian Australia wins Walkley award"},{"date": "2013-12-12T11:36:29Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In two run-down caravans and a couple of old tents on a farm in some of Australia's best wool-growing country, a dark secret of intergenerational incest and child abuse that has dominated the lives of 40 members of one family for decades has come to light.In a community of around 2,000 people, three and a half hours' drive south-west of Sydney, genetic testing has shown 11 children in one family have parents who are related to each other, some closely. Questions are now being asked about why it took authorities so long to act on warnings that children were at risk.Each child had suffered years of sexual abuse, perpetrated by brothers, sisters, cousins, fathers, an uncle and a grandfather over four generations.The extended family first came to the attention of authorities in June 2010. Over the next two years, seven 'risk of significant harm reports' were issued, mostly relating to neglect, failure to seek necessary medical attention and failure to ensure the children attended school.The makeshift camp where the family lived had no running water or toilets. The children did not know how to use toilet paper and some could not brush their teeth and ate with their hands. Dirt covered one of the caravan's cooking facilities and rotten vegetables lay in a fridge. A kangaroo slept on one of the children's beds.Initially the family complied with a request in June 2012 from social services to improve their living conditions but a month later 12 children, all cousins, ranging in age from five to 15 years, were removed by police after the authorities concluded that they would be at risk of harm if they remained at the property.The children were filthy, malnourished and barely able to speak. Some had moderate intellectual disabilities and could not be understood by social workers. Others had chronic hearing, sight and dental issues. One child, a nine year-old girl, was described as having 'dysmorphic' features. None had attended school regularly, if at all.It soon emerged these children have been living a nightmare that went far beyond neglect. Assessed by psychologists and social workers, the children exhibited sexualised behaviour and reported that they had engaged in \"inappropriate sexual conduct\" with each other.The intergenerational abuse is thought to date back 40 years. The grandparents of the children removed, Timothy and June Colt (pseudonyms given to them by the court), married in New Zealand in 1966. They had seven children, Rhonda, Betty, Cherry, Frank, Charlie, Paula and Martha (all pseudonyms). The family moved to Australia, living in various locations across four states.Three of Timothy and June's daughters \u2013 Betty, 46, Rhonda, 47, and Martha, 33 \u2013 who lived together in squalor on the rural property, are mothers to 11 of the 12 children removed. The fourth mother is Betty's 30-year-old daughter, Raylene.Only Rhonda's five-year-old daughter was found not to have been fathered by a blood relative.Betty, Martha and Raylene each deny that their children are the progeny of incestuous relationships, despite the fact that genetic testing has proved otherwiseThree of the girls aged seven, eight and nine claimed that their uncle, Charlie Colt, was also their father. He lived on the property when the children were removed. The nine year-old also claimed Charlie Colt had sex with her.It's believed that the family patriarch, Timothy Colt, who died in 2009, fathered children with one of his daughters and one of his granddaughters.Five of the boys removed also admitted to torturing animals on the farm including puppies and cats. They also said they had mutilated the genitals of animals.All of the removed children will remain in care until the age of 18. The case came to light after the children's court of New South Wales took the unusual step of publishing its judgment in the case.", "tags": ["Australia news", "New South Wales", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Child protection"], "title": "Australia incest case shocks country"},{"date": "2013-11-28T22:00:10Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Guardian Australia has won a Walkley award for multimedia storytelling for Firestorm, an interactive project centred around the January bushfire in Dunalley, Tasmania.The judges said\u00a0Firestorm \u201cbrought to life\u201d the story of the Holmes family \u2013 whose photos of them fleeing the Dunalley fire and sheltering under a jetty were seen all over the world \u2013 through text, photographs, video, audio and graphics.\u201cCombining text with vivid imagery and high-quality video, they have woven their narrative into a compelling and immersive multimedia reconstruction,\u201d read the judgment.Guardian Australia launched just six months ago.\u201cWe are delighted to be recognised by the Walkleys for our digital journalism so soon after launching the Guardian in Australia,\u201d said the editor-in-chief, Katharine Viner.\u201cWe're trying to find innovative ways to tell Australian stories and Firestorm has had a global impact. Thanks to our fantastic readers for welcoming us so warmly.\u201dThe annual award ceremony which recognises excellence in Australian journalism was held in Brisbane and hosted by the ABC Lateline presenter Emma Alberici.Guardian Australia\u2019s deputy political editor, Katharine Murphy, was nominated for for commentary, analysis, opinion and critique for her articles analysing the leadership of former prime minister Julia Gillard and exploring the values that drive the prime minister, Tony Abbott.The nominated body of work included Julia Gillard: where did it all go wrong?, Tony Abbott has another rival in the toughest race of his life \u2013 himself and Tony Abbott keeps the Catholic faith, quietly.The Gold Walkley, the highest accolade, went to the\u00a0Newcastle Herald journalist Joanne McCarthy, whose work investigating child sexual abuse within the Newcastle and Hunter region Catholic clergy led to the royal commission.The presenter of ABC TV\u2019s Australian Story, Caroline Jones, won the Walkley for outstanding contribution to journalism, and Gerard Ryle, director of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, won the leadership award.", "tags": ["Media", "Awards and prizes", "Australia news", "Bushfires"], "title": "Guardian Australia wins Walkley award"},{"date": "2013-11-17T06:52:09Z", "country": "australia", "content": "An estimated 60,000 people have attended rallies across Australia in one of the largest ever displays of support for action on climate change.Labor and Greens politicians, alongside volunteer firefighters and environmental activists, took turns at the Climate Action Day to lambast the Coalition government, which will table bills in parliament on Monday to dismantle carbon pricing.Around 25,000 people gathered on Sunday in the Melbourne sunshine, with Labor's environment spokesman, Mark Butler, reaffirming to the crowd that the opposition would not back down in its support for carbon pricing.\"In Australia, unlike in most other countries, there's an atmosphere of denialism and scepticism,\" he said. \"So many in our media and so many of our politicians, who should know better, deny that the science is settled.\"This isn't the time to move backwards. You'll hear a lot this week from Tony Abbott about his mandate. He'll tell all of you to get out of the way as he tries to slam Australia into reverse. But we won't be taking a backwards step, not this week, not this year, or next year or ever.\"The Greens' deputy leader, Adam Bandt, told the gathering that Australia needed a \"Churchill rather than a Chamberlain\" on climate, while Peter Marshall of the United Firefighters Union said an increase in the number of severe bushfires meant there were \"no climate sceptics on the end of a fire hose\" among volunteer fire crews.Tim Flannery, head of the Climate Commission, which was axed by the Coalition after it took power, urged the crowd to use \"every effort within the law to slow the uptake of fossil fuels\".\"If we let we let the world get warmer it'll have an impact on fire weather and the ocean is going to expand,\" he said. \"These are pretty simple propositions, they aren't propositions for argument by anyone. They need to be accepted as the facts and we need to move forward with the risk in our mind.\"About 10,000 people attended a rain-drenched rally in Sydney addressed by the Labor deputy leader, Tanya Plibersek. About 5,000 turned up in Brisbane and across Australia more than 130 events were held in capital cities and regional towns, organisers said.The rallies, by early estimates from organisers, will have attracted more people than the Walk Against Warming events in 2006, in which 40,000 people urged then-prime minister John Howard to do more on the issue of climate change.Activist group GetUp, along with environmental lobby groups Australian Conservation Foundation and Greenpeace, organised the events.Sam Mclean, GetUp's national director, denied that the Coalition had the broad support of the public for its aim of scrapping carbon pricing in favour of its Direct Action policy, in which businesses will be offered incentives to reduce emissions.\"In any analysis of the election Tony Abbott has no mandate to go backwards on climate change,\" Mclean said. \"Our own polling has shown that 69% of people want stronger action on climate change. We need to know what Tony Abbott will do, because the policy he has outlined so far is a joke.\"", "tags": ["Australian politics", "Australia news", "Carbon tax", "Environment"], "title": "Climate rallies held across Australia"},{"date": "2013-12-12T11:36:29Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In two run-down caravans and a couple of old tents on a farm in some of Australia's best wool-growing country, a dark secret of intergenerational incest and child abuse that has dominated the lives of 40 members of one family for decades has come to light.In a community of around 2,000 people, three and a half hours' drive south-west of Sydney, genetic testing has shown 11 children in one family have parents who are related to each other, some closely. Questions are now being asked about why it took authorities so long to act on warnings that children were at risk.Each child had suffered years of sexual abuse, perpetrated by brothers, sisters, cousins, fathers, an uncle and a grandfather over four generations.The extended family first came to the attention of authorities in June 2010. Over the next two years, seven 'risk of significant harm reports' were issued, mostly relating to neglect, failure to seek necessary medical attention and failure to ensure the children attended school.The makeshift camp where the family lived had no running water or toilets. The children did not know how to use toilet paper and some could not brush their teeth and ate with their hands. Dirt covered one of the caravan's cooking facilities and rotten vegetables lay in a fridge. A kangaroo slept on one of the children's beds.Initially the family complied with a request in June 2012 from social services to improve their living conditions but a month later 12 children, all cousins, ranging in age from five to 15 years, were removed by police after the authorities concluded that they would be at risk of harm if they remained at the property.The children were filthy, malnourished and barely able to speak. Some had moderate intellectual disabilities and could not be understood by social workers. Others had chronic hearing, sight and dental issues. One child, a nine year-old girl, was described as having 'dysmorphic' features. None had attended school regularly, if at all.It soon emerged these children have been living a nightmare that went far beyond neglect. Assessed by psychologists and social workers, the children exhibited sexualised behaviour and reported that they had engaged in \"inappropriate sexual conduct\" with each other.The intergenerational abuse is thought to date back 40 years. The grandparents of the children removed, Timothy and June Colt (pseudonyms given to them by the court), married in New Zealand in 1966. They had seven children, Rhonda, Betty, Cherry, Frank, Charlie, Paula and Martha (all pseudonyms). The family moved to Australia, living in various locations across four states.Three of Timothy and June's daughters \u2013 Betty, 46, Rhonda, 47, and Martha, 33 \u2013 who lived together in squalor on the rural property, are mothers to 11 of the 12 children removed. The fourth mother is Betty's 30-year-old daughter, Raylene.Only Rhonda's five-year-old daughter was found not to have been fathered by a blood relative.Betty, Martha and Raylene each deny that their children are the progeny of incestuous relationships, despite the fact that genetic testing has proved otherwiseThree of the girls aged seven, eight and nine claimed that their uncle, Charlie Colt, was also their father. He lived on the property when the children were removed. The nine year-old also claimed Charlie Colt had sex with her.It's believed that the family patriarch, Timothy Colt, who died in 2009, fathered children with one of his daughters and one of his granddaughters.Five of the boys removed also admitted to torturing animals on the farm including puppies and cats. They also said they had mutilated the genitals of animals.All of the removed children will remain in care until the age of 18. The case came to light after the children's court of New South Wales took the unusual step of publishing its judgment in the case.", "tags": ["Australia news", "New South Wales", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Child protection"], "title": "Australia incest case shocks country"},{"date": "2013-11-28T22:00:10Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Guardian Australia has won a Walkley award for multimedia storytelling for Firestorm, an interactive project centred around the January bushfire in Dunalley, Tasmania.The judges said\u00a0Firestorm \u201cbrought to life\u201d the story of the Holmes family \u2013 whose photos of them fleeing the Dunalley fire and sheltering under a jetty were seen all over the world \u2013 through text, photographs, video, audio and graphics.\u201cCombining text with vivid imagery and high-quality video, they have woven their narrative into a compelling and immersive multimedia reconstruction,\u201d read the judgment.Guardian Australia launched just six months ago.\u201cWe are delighted to be recognised by the Walkleys for our digital journalism so soon after launching the Guardian in Australia,\u201d said the editor-in-chief, Katharine Viner.\u201cWe're trying to find innovative ways to tell Australian stories and Firestorm has had a global impact. Thanks to our fantastic readers for welcoming us so warmly.\u201dThe annual award ceremony which recognises excellence in Australian journalism was held in Brisbane and hosted by the ABC Lateline presenter Emma Alberici.Guardian Australia\u2019s deputy political editor, Katharine Murphy, was nominated for for commentary, analysis, opinion and critique for her articles analysing the leadership of former prime minister Julia Gillard and exploring the values that drive the prime minister, Tony Abbott.The nominated body of work included Julia Gillard: where did it all go wrong?, Tony Abbott has another rival in the toughest race of his life \u2013 himself and Tony Abbott keeps the Catholic faith, quietly.The Gold Walkley, the highest accolade, went to the\u00a0Newcastle Herald journalist Joanne McCarthy, whose work investigating child sexual abuse within the Newcastle and Hunter region Catholic clergy led to the royal commission.The presenter of ABC TV\u2019s Australian Story, Caroline Jones, won the Walkley for outstanding contribution to journalism, and Gerard Ryle, director of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, won the leadership award.", "tags": ["Media", "Awards and prizes", "Australia news", "Bushfires"], "title": "Guardian Australia wins Walkley award"},{"date": "2013-11-17T06:52:09Z", "country": "australia", "content": "An estimated 60,000 people have attended rallies across Australia in one of the largest ever displays of support for action on climate change.Labor and Greens politicians, alongside volunteer firefighters and environmental activists, took turns at the Climate Action Day to lambast the Coalition government, which will table bills in parliament on Monday to dismantle carbon pricing.Around 25,000 people gathered on Sunday in the Melbourne sunshine, with Labor's environment spokesman, Mark Butler, reaffirming to the crowd that the opposition would not back down in its support for carbon pricing.\"In Australia, unlike in most other countries, there's an atmosphere of denialism and scepticism,\" he said. \"So many in our media and so many of our politicians, who should know better, deny that the science is settled.\"This isn't the time to move backwards. You'll hear a lot this week from Tony Abbott about his mandate. He'll tell all of you to get out of the way as he tries to slam Australia into reverse. But we won't be taking a backwards step, not this week, not this year, or next year or ever.\"The Greens' deputy leader, Adam Bandt, told the gathering that Australia needed a \"Churchill rather than a Chamberlain\" on climate, while Peter Marshall of the United Firefighters Union said an increase in the number of severe bushfires meant there were \"no climate sceptics on the end of a fire hose\" among volunteer fire crews.Tim Flannery, head of the Climate Commission, which was axed by the Coalition after it took power, urged the crowd to use \"every effort within the law to slow the uptake of fossil fuels\".\"If we let we let the world get warmer it'll have an impact on fire weather and the ocean is going to expand,\" he said. \"These are pretty simple propositions, they aren't propositions for argument by anyone. They need to be accepted as the facts and we need to move forward with the risk in our mind.\"About 10,000 people attended a rain-drenched rally in Sydney addressed by the Labor deputy leader, Tanya Plibersek. About 5,000 turned up in Brisbane and across Australia more than 130 events were held in capital cities and regional towns, organisers said.The rallies, by early estimates from organisers, will have attracted more people than the Walk Against Warming events in 2006, in which 40,000 people urged then-prime minister John Howard to do more on the issue of climate change.Activist group GetUp, along with environmental lobby groups Australian Conservation Foundation and Greenpeace, organised the events.Sam Mclean, GetUp's national director, denied that the Coalition had the broad support of the public for its aim of scrapping carbon pricing in favour of its Direct Action policy, in which businesses will be offered incentives to reduce emissions.\"In any analysis of the election Tony Abbott has no mandate to go backwards on climate change,\" Mclean said. \"Our own polling has shown that 69% of people want stronger action on climate change. We need to know what Tony Abbott will do, because the policy he has outlined so far is a joke.\"", "tags": ["Australian politics", "Australia news", "Carbon tax", "Environment"], "title": "Climate rallies held across Australia"},{"date": "2013-12-20T01:07:03Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It was early March, 2013. Former Australian prime minister John Howard took the stage in a cavernous convention hall in Ottawa. \u201cCan I start by saying you have no reason to be concerned about the state of conservatism in this country,\u201d he told the crowd of Canadian conservatives who\u2019d gathered for the Manning Centre\u2019s annual networking conference. \u201cI can\u2019t find a better conservative leader anywhere in the world than [Canadian prime minister] Stephen Harper. I really can\u2019t.\u201d\u00a0One wonders whether Howard would say the same thing now. Not because Harper\u2019s recent domestic scandal\u00a0has called into question the purity of his party\u2019s convictions, the increasing centralisation of power in his office, and his own leadership qualities, but because he now has what many consider an ideological body-double Down Under. But as much as Canada\u2019s Conservative party membership may love to hear how similar they are to their Australian cousins, it might be one key difference that matters most in the long run.Perhaps not since Harper recited one of Howard\u2019s speeches verbatim, without credit, in the House of Commons, have the Canadian and Australian governments been reading so closely from the same page. The two nations were jointly responsible for blocking a Commonwealth initiative to establish a climate fund for poor nations in November; Abbott has, as Harper did, promised to squash asylum seekers landing ashore by boat from Asia; and Abbott\u2019s platform carried the promise of further mandatory minimum sentencing for gun crimes. The Harper government has already implemented the same for some sexual and drug offences.\u00a0So when Abbott\u2019s government killed the Australian carbon tax, it was little surprise that the loudest cheer came from Ottawa. The prime minister\u2019s parliamentary secretary, Paul Calandra, told the House\u00a0that Canada \u201capplauds\u201d the decision, and that Abbott\u2019s move \u201csends an important message.\u201d Which is true for a few reasons.It was important for the Conservative government for purely rhetorical uses. It provided fresh fodder for a tired, farcical\u00a0talking point against Canada\u2019s opposition New Democrats, who the government alleges would implement something similar if ever given power.Also important: it clearly showed the Harper Conservatives have a staunch ideological ally \u2013 finally.The fact that the two parties and leaders are allies isn\u2019t a total shock. The parallels between Abbott and Harper were easily drawn months ago. Both are economists. Both are young. Both were grown into leaders after long-term grassroots participation in conservatism. And just as easily linked are the messaging strategies, borne from continued and very close relationship between the Canadian Conservative and Australian Liberal parties. Abbott\u2019s election night promise of guaranteeing a government \u201cthat is competent, that is trustworthy, and which purposefully and steadfastly and methodically sets about delivering on our commitments,\u201d would sound nice (and familiar) to Harper\u2019s \u201cstrong, stable, national Conservative majority government.\u201d\u00a0And Conservatives will tell you the Liberals have recently turned to Harper and his team for guidance, and found a very welcoming ear. They had to return the favour, after all. Earlier this decade key figures within the Conservative party like strategic planner Patrick Muttart, were studying Australia\u2019s successes \u2013 particularly Howard\u2019s ability to covet the working- and middle-class. They adopted and adapted aspects of it to eventual success. That\u2019s useful for both sides, if only to do what Calandra did and justify each other\u2019s existence and continued power.But maybe most interestingly, Abbott\u2019s decision provides an important message for Canada\u2019s grassroots conservatives, if they want to hear it.\u00a0Harper\u2019s current troubles have come since Conservative senator Mike Duffy was found to have incorrectly billed taxpayers for living and travel expenses and that, to rectify the imbalance, Harper\u2019s then-chief of staff offered to pay it out of his own pocket. The police also allege\u00a0that other member\u2019s of Harper\u2019s inner circle knew of the payment and coached Duffy to instead tell the public a different story. Harper has claimed ignorance of the entire affair, but it has severely damaged his reputation as an incorruptible straight-shooter and a no-nonsense manager \u2013 the kind of image Abbott is also trying to form despite an expenses row of his own.But here, there is one key difference between the two. Abbott leads a group of MPs that can get rid of him; Harper leads a group of MPs who cannot, as he \u2013 like all Canadian political leaders \u2013 is instead chosen by the party membership. However, coming down the pike is a bill from a backbench Conservative MP that aims, in part, to change that, and return that power to the base. It could prove crucial.\u201cThe most important thing always in politics is to stand for something,\u201d Howard said in March. \u201cAnd once a government looks as though it doesn\u2019t stand for something and has lost its way philosophically, it\u2019s only a matter of time before the public vote it out.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Tony Abbott", "Stephen Harper", "Environment", "Australian immigration and asylum", "Carbon tax"], "title": "Australia and Canada: a conservative bromance | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2013-12-12T11:36:29Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In two run-down caravans and a couple of old tents on a farm in some of Australia's best wool-growing country, a dark secret of intergenerational incest and child abuse that has dominated the lives of 40 members of one family for decades has come to light.In a community of around 2,000 people, three and a half hours' drive south-west of Sydney, genetic testing has shown 11 children in one family have parents who are related to each other, some closely. Questions are now being asked about why it took authorities so long to act on warnings that children were at risk.Each child had suffered years of sexual abuse, perpetrated by brothers, sisters, cousins, fathers, an uncle and a grandfather over four generations.The extended family first came to the attention of authorities in June 2010. Over the next two years, seven 'risk of significant harm reports' were issued, mostly relating to neglect, failure to seek necessary medical attention and failure to ensure the children attended school.The makeshift camp where the family lived had no running water or toilets. The children did not know how to use toilet paper and some could not brush their teeth and ate with their hands. Dirt covered one of the caravan's cooking facilities and rotten vegetables lay in a fridge. A kangaroo slept on one of the children's beds.Initially the family complied with a request in June 2012 from social services to improve their living conditions but a month later 12 children, all cousins, ranging in age from five to 15 years, were removed by police after the authorities concluded that they would be at risk of harm if they remained at the property.The children were filthy, malnourished and barely able to speak. Some had moderate intellectual disabilities and could not be understood by social workers. Others had chronic hearing, sight and dental issues. One child, a nine year-old girl, was described as having 'dysmorphic' features. None had attended school regularly, if at all.It soon emerged these children have been living a nightmare that went far beyond neglect. Assessed by psychologists and social workers, the children exhibited sexualised behaviour and reported that they had engaged in \"inappropriate sexual conduct\" with each other.The intergenerational abuse is thought to date back 40 years. The grandparents of the children removed, Timothy and June Colt (pseudonyms given to them by the court), married in New Zealand in 1966. They had seven children, Rhonda, Betty, Cherry, Frank, Charlie, Paula and Martha (all pseudonyms). The family moved to Australia, living in various locations across four states.Three of Timothy and June's daughters \u2013 Betty, 46, Rhonda, 47, and Martha, 33 \u2013 who lived together in squalor on the rural property, are mothers to 11 of the 12 children removed. The fourth mother is Betty's 30-year-old daughter, Raylene.Only Rhonda's five-year-old daughter was found not to have been fathered by a blood relative.Betty, Martha and Raylene each deny that their children are the progeny of incestuous relationships, despite the fact that genetic testing has proved otherwiseThree of the girls aged seven, eight and nine claimed that their uncle, Charlie Colt, was also their father. He lived on the property when the children were removed. The nine year-old also claimed Charlie Colt had sex with her.It's believed that the family patriarch, Timothy Colt, who died in 2009, fathered children with one of his daughters and one of his granddaughters.Five of the boys removed also admitted to torturing animals on the farm including puppies and cats. They also said they had mutilated the genitals of animals.All of the removed children will remain in care until the age of 18. The case came to light after the children's court of New South Wales took the unusual step of publishing its judgment in the case.", "tags": ["Australia news", "New South Wales", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Child protection"], "title": "Australia incest case shocks country"},{"date": "2013-11-28T22:00:10Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Guardian Australia has won a Walkley award for multimedia storytelling for Firestorm, an interactive project centred around the January bushfire in Dunalley, Tasmania.The judges said\u00a0Firestorm \u201cbrought to life\u201d the story of the Holmes family \u2013 whose photos of them fleeing the Dunalley fire and sheltering under a jetty were seen all over the world \u2013 through text, photographs, video, audio and graphics.\u201cCombining text with vivid imagery and high-quality video, they have woven their narrative into a compelling and immersive multimedia reconstruction,\u201d read the judgment.Guardian Australia launched just six months ago.\u201cWe are delighted to be recognised by the Walkleys for our digital journalism so soon after launching the Guardian in Australia,\u201d said the editor-in-chief, Katharine Viner.\u201cWe're trying to find innovative ways to tell Australian stories and Firestorm has had a global impact. Thanks to our fantastic readers for welcoming us so warmly.\u201dThe annual award ceremony which recognises excellence in Australian journalism was held in Brisbane and hosted by the ABC Lateline presenter Emma Alberici.Guardian Australia\u2019s deputy political editor, Katharine Murphy, was nominated for for commentary, analysis, opinion and critique for her articles analysing the leadership of former prime minister Julia Gillard and exploring the values that drive the prime minister, Tony Abbott.The nominated body of work included Julia Gillard: where did it all go wrong?, Tony Abbott has another rival in the toughest race of his life \u2013 himself and Tony Abbott keeps the Catholic faith, quietly.The Gold Walkley, the highest accolade, went to the\u00a0Newcastle Herald journalist Joanne McCarthy, whose work investigating child sexual abuse within the Newcastle and Hunter region Catholic clergy led to the royal commission.The presenter of ABC TV\u2019s Australian Story, Caroline Jones, won the Walkley for outstanding contribution to journalism, and Gerard Ryle, director of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, won the leadership award.", "tags": ["Media", "Awards and prizes", "Australia news", "Bushfires"], "title": "Guardian Australia wins Walkley award"},{"date": "2013-11-17T06:52:09Z", "country": "australia", "content": "An estimated 60,000 people have attended rallies across Australia in one of the largest ever displays of support for action on climate change.Labor and Greens politicians, alongside volunteer firefighters and environmental activists, took turns at the Climate Action Day to lambast the Coalition government, which will table bills in parliament on Monday to dismantle carbon pricing.Around 25,000 people gathered on Sunday in the Melbourne sunshine, with Labor's environment spokesman, Mark Butler, reaffirming to the crowd that the opposition would not back down in its support for carbon pricing.\"In Australia, unlike in most other countries, there's an atmosphere of denialism and scepticism,\" he said. \"So many in our media and so many of our politicians, who should know better, deny that the science is settled.\"This isn't the time to move backwards. You'll hear a lot this week from Tony Abbott about his mandate. He'll tell all of you to get out of the way as he tries to slam Australia into reverse. But we won't be taking a backwards step, not this week, not this year, or next year or ever.\"The Greens' deputy leader, Adam Bandt, told the gathering that Australia needed a \"Churchill rather than a Chamberlain\" on climate, while Peter Marshall of the United Firefighters Union said an increase in the number of severe bushfires meant there were \"no climate sceptics on the end of a fire hose\" among volunteer fire crews.Tim Flannery, head of the Climate Commission, which was axed by the Coalition after it took power, urged the crowd to use \"every effort within the law to slow the uptake of fossil fuels\".\"If we let we let the world get warmer it'll have an impact on fire weather and the ocean is going to expand,\" he said. \"These are pretty simple propositions, they aren't propositions for argument by anyone. They need to be accepted as the facts and we need to move forward with the risk in our mind.\"About 10,000 people attended a rain-drenched rally in Sydney addressed by the Labor deputy leader, Tanya Plibersek. About 5,000 turned up in Brisbane and across Australia more than 130 events were held in capital cities and regional towns, organisers said.The rallies, by early estimates from organisers, will have attracted more people than the Walk Against Warming events in 2006, in which 40,000 people urged then-prime minister John Howard to do more on the issue of climate change.Activist group GetUp, along with environmental lobby groups Australian Conservation Foundation and Greenpeace, organised the events.Sam Mclean, GetUp's national director, denied that the Coalition had the broad support of the public for its aim of scrapping carbon pricing in favour of its Direct Action policy, in which businesses will be offered incentives to reduce emissions.\"In any analysis of the election Tony Abbott has no mandate to go backwards on climate change,\" Mclean said. \"Our own polling has shown that 69% of people want stronger action on climate change. We need to know what Tony Abbott will do, because the policy he has outlined so far is a joke.\"", "tags": ["Australian politics", "Australia news", "Carbon tax", "Environment"], "title": "Climate rallies held across Australia"},{"date": "2013-12-20T01:07:03Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It was early March, 2013. Former Australian prime minister John Howard took the stage in a cavernous convention hall in Ottawa. \u201cCan I start by saying you have no reason to be concerned about the state of conservatism in this country,\u201d he told the crowd of Canadian conservatives who\u2019d gathered for the Manning Centre\u2019s annual networking conference. \u201cI can\u2019t find a better conservative leader anywhere in the world than [Canadian prime minister] Stephen Harper. I really can\u2019t.\u201d\u00a0One wonders whether Howard would say the same thing now. Not because Harper\u2019s recent domestic scandal\u00a0has called into question the purity of his party\u2019s convictions, the increasing centralisation of power in his office, and his own leadership qualities, but because he now has what many consider an ideological body-double Down Under. But as much as Canada\u2019s Conservative party membership may love to hear how similar they are to their Australian cousins, it might be one key difference that matters most in the long run.Perhaps not since Harper recited one of Howard\u2019s speeches verbatim, without credit, in the House of Commons, have the Canadian and Australian governments been reading so closely from the same page. The two nations were jointly responsible for blocking a Commonwealth initiative to establish a climate fund for poor nations in November; Abbott has, as Harper did, promised to squash asylum seekers landing ashore by boat from Asia; and Abbott\u2019s platform carried the promise of further mandatory minimum sentencing for gun crimes. The Harper government has already implemented the same for some sexual and drug offences.\u00a0So when Abbott\u2019s government killed the Australian carbon tax, it was little surprise that the loudest cheer came from Ottawa. The prime minister\u2019s parliamentary secretary, Paul Calandra, told the House\u00a0that Canada \u201capplauds\u201d the decision, and that Abbott\u2019s move \u201csends an important message.\u201d Which is true for a few reasons.It was important for the Conservative government for purely rhetorical uses. It provided fresh fodder for a tired, farcical\u00a0talking point against Canada\u2019s opposition New Democrats, who the government alleges would implement something similar if ever given power.Also important: it clearly showed the Harper Conservatives have a staunch ideological ally \u2013 finally.The fact that the two parties and leaders are allies isn\u2019t a total shock. The parallels between Abbott and Harper were easily drawn months ago. Both are economists. Both are young. Both were grown into leaders after long-term grassroots participation in conservatism. And just as easily linked are the messaging strategies, borne from continued and very close relationship between the Canadian Conservative and Australian Liberal parties. Abbott\u2019s election night promise of guaranteeing a government \u201cthat is competent, that is trustworthy, and which purposefully and steadfastly and methodically sets about delivering on our commitments,\u201d would sound nice (and familiar) to Harper\u2019s \u201cstrong, stable, national Conservative majority government.\u201d\u00a0And Conservatives will tell you the Liberals have recently turned to Harper and his team for guidance, and found a very welcoming ear. They had to return the favour, after all. Earlier this decade key figures within the Conservative party like strategic planner Patrick Muttart, were studying Australia\u2019s successes \u2013 particularly Howard\u2019s ability to covet the working- and middle-class. They adopted and adapted aspects of it to eventual success. That\u2019s useful for both sides, if only to do what Calandra did and justify each other\u2019s existence and continued power.But maybe most interestingly, Abbott\u2019s decision provides an important message for Canada\u2019s grassroots conservatives, if they want to hear it.\u00a0Harper\u2019s current troubles have come since Conservative senator Mike Duffy was found to have incorrectly billed taxpayers for living and travel expenses and that, to rectify the imbalance, Harper\u2019s then-chief of staff offered to pay it out of his own pocket. The police also allege\u00a0that other member\u2019s of Harper\u2019s inner circle knew of the payment and coached Duffy to instead tell the public a different story. Harper has claimed ignorance of the entire affair, but it has severely damaged his reputation as an incorruptible straight-shooter and a no-nonsense manager \u2013 the kind of image Abbott is also trying to form despite an expenses row of his own.But here, there is one key difference between the two. Abbott leads a group of MPs that can get rid of him; Harper leads a group of MPs who cannot, as he \u2013 like all Canadian political leaders \u2013 is instead chosen by the party membership. However, coming down the pike is a bill from a backbench Conservative MP that aims, in part, to change that, and return that power to the base. It could prove crucial.\u201cThe most important thing always in politics is to stand for something,\u201d Howard said in March. \u201cAnd once a government looks as though it doesn\u2019t stand for something and has lost its way philosophically, it\u2019s only a matter of time before the public vote it out.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Tony Abbott", "Stephen Harper", "Environment", "Australian immigration and asylum", "Carbon tax"], "title": "Australia and Canada: a conservative bromance | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2013-12-13T10:09:39Z", "country": "australia", "content": " 10.09am GMT From 143-5, 326-6 represents a magnificent comeback for Australia, for whom Smith has been the best batsman by a margin. So another disappointing day in the end for England, who desperately need to bat to their potential when they get their opportunity tomorrow. Well, I'm assuming it'll be tomorrow\u2026That's all for me. Thanks for your emails and your attention, and I'll be back a little after 4am (gulp) tomorrow morning.Aus 326 for six at the close, Smith 103 and Johnson 39. Initiative to Aus in last hour but this is a top pitch on which to bat. 10.03am GMT Five Bresnan dot balls and a simple two through midwicket, and today is officially over, cricket-wise. \"Despite the wicket of Haddin, this is depressing stuff,\" moans Guy Hornsby. \"I know the talk is of 'well if we can get them for under 350', but right now Smith looks about as likely to give his wicket away as Beefy is to sing Let It Snow with a Santa hat on. I can't help feeling that Australia's tail will wag, and we'll be stuffed trying to chase 450. Yes, I'm a pessimist. But I'm also hung over, and tired, and nothing grinds you down like a dominant Australian cricket team. Feel my pain.\" You are not alone. 9.58am GMT The shadows are long and dark now, and that's just under my eyes. We'll have one more over before stumps, and if this isn't to go down as Australia's day it needs to be a two-wicket maiden. 9.54am GMT England are taking their time here, fiddling with the field between each delivery, and Johnson, unbothered, smacks successive boundaries. He's now scored 144 runs this series; England's most successful batsman, Joe Root has scored 130. 9.49am GMT Anderson beats Johnson's edge, and then Smith's, but the Australians survive with ball unedged. Anderson's economy rate, at 2.68, is the best of England's bowlers by a way. 9.43am GMT Johnson edges the ball this time, but it goes nowhere near a fielder, instead flashing through an empty gully and away for four. 9.39am GMT Three runs off Anderson's first two nballs and none off the other four. Signs of an imminent new-ball-based breakthrough unforthcoming. \"We haven't been subjected to Jerusalem at the start of play in this series (the cricket equivalent of the England football's brass band), so it was a nice reminder last night when an office party was booted out of my local pub for singing it very loudly whilst hugging one another,\" writes David Hopkins. In my limited experience that sounds like unusual office behaviour, even at the end of a Christmas party. Certainly doesn't happen on the sports desk nights out.Updated at 9.41am GMT 9.34am GMT Stuart Broad takes the first over with the new ball, as we enter a bonus half-hour tacked on to the end of today's play because we're all enjoying it so much. Johnson grabs a single. 9.30am GMT The batsmen grab a one each from Swann's over, the last with the old ball. 9.27am GMT Joe Root does some bowling, and Johnson thumps the ball dead straight for a one-bounce four. \"With all the talk in the Guardian recently of 'selfies', 'lelfies' and 'belfies', was that a 'selvie'?\" ponders Charles Evison of that Selvey-with-fan shot. I think it most probably was. 9.24am GMT Johnson swats Swann through point for four. Jokes I wish I got part 2: \"I\u2019d like to reassure Fergus (over 75) that he\u2019ll be able to see plenty of \u2018nasty, brutish and short\u2019 when the Australians are bowling,\" snorts Phil Deans. 9.21am GMT Stokes bowls, Smith edges, Cook collects, but the ball bounced a foot in front of him. A lucky let-off there! Smith regains his composure over the next couple of balls, and then slaps one down the ground for four, and pulls yet another short ball, and an over that could have seen his downfall instead sees him bring up his century. \"Over on TMS Vaughan is talking about how it's an amazing stat that we've got to the third test and only had one LBW,\" reports Tim Zobu. \"I think the amazing stat is that it wasn't Shane Watson.\" 9.14am GMT Johnson hits Swann's first two deliveries in the air, but safe. \"A very adaptable body part, the thigh, for euphemistic purposes,\" notes Matthew Clapham. \"I remember back in the day of watching too much test cricket (1980s in my case) that a blow to the box would invariably be described as having 'struck him very painfully at the top of the inner thigh'.\" 9.10am GMT \"I've an exam on political philosophy at 12 but can't tear myself away from the OBO,\" writes Fergus Carroll, as Australia get some ones ands twos off Stokes. \"I don't know whether to spend my remaining time reading a depressing manifesto on the nature of man or Leviathan by Thomas Hobbes\u2026\" I suspect that people who know what Leviathan by Thomas Hobbes is about will see a clever joke there. 9.06am GMT Despite the imminent new ball, Anderson bowls. Nothing much happens.@selvecricket with his first fan pic.twitter.com/ClPJ8Et3g8 9.04am GMT The ball hits Johnson and Australia run a leg bye. \"It's come off the thigh, slightly higher,\" says David Gower on Sky. It came off his buttock, a word that Gower obviously just can't bring himself to say on air. 8.57am GMT \"Nevermind Mitchell Johnson, surely Brad Haddin has been Australia's man of the series so far?\" suggests Kevin Wilson, as Johnson slams the ball through midwicket for four. \"He's either dug them out of a hole or made a good total insurmountable pretty much every innings. It's easier for Mitch to bowl with loads of runs on the board than when they're defending 250.\" Johnson also has had a useful innings with the bat, but it's all to play for between the two of them. 8.53am GMT Stokes really needs to watch that no ball. The ball before the wicket-taking delivery could easily have been called, too. Bresnan will take over 72, but after that, with eight overs remaining before the new ball, we might get some spin. 8.50am GMT The breakthrough! Haddin is caught by Anderson at midwicket and though there's a heart-in-mouth moment as replays show Stokes' foot mere millimetres from no-ball territory, Haddin's gone! 8.45am GMT Ian Botham is complaining about the number of short deliveries England have bowled today (too many, in his opinion). I can only recall one ball-on-pad collision since I took over OBO duties at lunch, which feels unusually low. 8.41am GMT A rare moment of discomfort for Smith, who tries to work a Stokes delivery through the covers but misses it completely, the ball flashing past his edge. 8.37am GMT Extended shots of Cooke stroking his chin, literally stroking his chin, as he ponders the state of this match and what his ICC-approved captaincy is going to do about it. Bresnan bowls another maiden, and his last three overs have gone for a combined one run. 8.33am GMT Smith cuts a wide delivery from Broad for four, and lets the rest of the over pass him by, his work done. 8.28am GMT Bresnan's third maiden of the day. \"Yes, Smith is obviously doing pretty well,\" John Starbuck concedes, \"but how does his international career compare with all the other Smiths who've played the game?\" These are the key questions facing the lad. As ever, the OBO takes you right to the heart of the game. 8.22am GMT The temperature has dropped to a positively chillsome 33.1C \u2013 nearly 10C lower than today's peak \u2013 which should make England's travails in the field a very small amount more bearable. \"The first sniff of a wicket to break this partnership and it is a complete balls up between Carberry and Root,\" moans Ivan Kinsman. \"England are starting to throw this match away.\" 8.16am GMT Haddin gets away with one there! He scoops the ball into the air off the foot of the bat, but Carberry at deep cover point can't get to it in time to take the catch \u2013 it's not clear that the Englishman knew where it was going until it was too late to do anything about it. He's had a few escapes today, has Haddin. 8.13am GMT Broad comes on, and Smith smacks him through the covers for four. This is serense stuff from Smith, who's sniffing a century and also what would be his first ever series win\u2026 8.06am GMT Haddin watches the first couple of deliveries, and then thumps the third, without moving his feet, over the bowler's head for six. He tries to repeat the dose a couple of balls later, and though the ball doesn't reach the rope this time, there's nobody there to catch it, he runs a couple and that's his half-century. 8.02am GMT And that's another maiden from Anderson, after which Cook, Prior and Bresnan converse at length, trying to work out where a wicket might possibly come from. 7.59am GMT Swann's second ball is thundered away for four, and Smith nearly gets another only for Broad to deal well with his proximity to the boundary rope. \"143-5 seems a long time ago,\" writes Aran Scutcher. \"We dared to dream only for that dream to degenerate into a familiar nightmare. Australia appear to have some steel in the middle of the order which can correct the misdeeds of the earlier batsmen whereas England just seem to crumble like a biscuit dipped too long in tea. I've Haddin-ough.\" 7.56am GMT A maiden from Anderson, but there's been no suddenly increased threat post-tea. 7.51am GMT Time for Cook to show his captain-of-the-year chops, perhaps, with England in need of a wicket from somewhere. Can he conjure anything up? The batsmen grab a single each from Swann's latest over. 7.48am GMT Steve Smith can pull the ball for four. This has been established. But Anderson gives him another chance to show us, which he takes. \"This strikes me as so far being exactly what has happened in the first two Tests,\" reckons Bill Iliffe. \"Unless Billy Bowden intervenes, by reducing Johnson's overs to a couple of balls maybe, I can only see this going one way.\" 7.42am GMT The first ball of the 56th over meets the same fate as the first of the 55th, though this time it's Smith smacking it away for four. 7.39am GMT \"Why has Michael Clarke been named ICC Cricketer of the Year?\" rages Simon Clark, as Haddin boshes Anderson's first delivery of the session through the covers for four. \"Do the ICC only judge performance based on\u00a0what happens in December?! The man lost an Ashes series in England 3-0 and apart from this month, its been a bad year for the Aussie cricket team.\"Australia's 6th and 7th wicket are averaging 91 in this series. England's 6th and 7th average 11.8 #ashes #bbccricket 7.36am GMT The Australia flag flaps merrily as the batsmen come out, the Doctor doing its thing. The ICC awards have just been announced, incidentally, and it's good news for today's 100-cap winners: Alastair Cook is the captain of the year, while Michael Clarke is the cricketer and the Test cricketer of the year. 7.28am GMT Or \"breakfast\", as I call it. From 143-5, England will be disappointed to see Australia now at 220 without further loss, with Smith looking good and Haddin improving after a rocky start. It's all delicately poised ahead of what could turn into a marathon final session. \"I like Billy Bowden as umpire,\" writes Peter Brown, of the seven- and five-ball overs we enjoyed during that session. \"It's a bit of a lucky dip. Maybe he'll forget it's the last session coming up and we'll get a 4th session. Or he'll think it's lunch and we'll get a 40 minute break. Cricktainment at its best.\" 7.13am GMT Bresnan's 14th over of the day, which is three more than Broad and five more than Stokes and Anderson. At least he'll get a breather now, because it's TEA.Tea, 220-5. Another cut and thrust session. 7.10am GMT Hadding pushes Swann's last ball through point and it trundles away slowly with Carberry in hot pursuit, eventually earning the batsman three runs. 7.07am GMT It's turned a bit sedate, Australia's score rolling gently upwards and England currently receiving little encouragement. This is bad news, particularly if, as in my case, your alarm went at 3.45am, you're currently sitting on your sofa in your nightwear and your head is pretty insistent that you should be asleep.Updated at 7.08am GMT 7.05am GMT The batsmen help themselves to a single run each from Swann's latest.Updated at 7.08am GMT 7.00am GMT This pair have put on 60 runs so far, and needs to be broken. Haddin plays and misses, but things improve rapidly thereafter as he slams one through the covers for four and pulls the last ball of the over for another.STAT ALERT: England have conceded a record 72 sixes in 13 Tests in 2013. Their previous record was 53, in 2002. http://t.co/TxhKKAchqO 6.56am GMT Haddin slog-sweeps Swann's second ball over square leg for six, a sign perhaps that his early-innings dodginess is coming to an end. We shall see. 6.52am GMT Smith reaches an excellent half-century with a fine pull shot that sends the ball trundling through midwicket for four, and then does it again for good measure. 6.48am GMT Smith slams Swann's first ball back over his head for six, and then Haddin gets away with another loose shot, which lands between Bresnan and the boundary, at which point his bat decides it's had enough and self-destructs. Updated at 6.52am GMT 6.43am GMT \u2026and then he hits Stokes' first ball, straight and full, off his ankles and away for four. A short ball ends up in an almost identical location, pulled through midwicket for four more. Billy Bowden, who earlier allowed Broad to bowl a five-ball over, makes Stokes bowl a seven-ball over, which is a bit odd.Updated at 6.44am GMT 6.38am GMT Now Swann returns, and after five dot balls we find ourselves precisely three overs on from the last run scored. At which point, Smith scores another run. 6.35am GMT Now Stokes bowls a maiden. Shane Warne reckons that if you bowl three consecutive maidens you get a wicket more often than not, and we're now two-thirds of the way to testing his thesis\u2026Updated at 6.44am GMT 6.30am GMT Another maiden from Bresnan, a chanceless, actionless over bowled to Smith. 6.27am GMT Ben Stokes replaces Broad, and Haddin works the ball through the space where third slip isn't for four. \"All I want for Christmas is for England to run through these last five wickets cheaply please,\" pleads Steven Pye. \"A Haddin century may result in me lashing out at Father Christmas and that would be a little upsetting.\" I don't know, I reckon he's got it coming. 6.23am GMT Smith this time top-edges a pull shot, from Bresnan's last ball, and gets away with it. They've handed England a few cheap wickets today, but they've got away with a few lapses as well. 6.15am GMT Broad, told to have a breather, instead demands another over, and he very nearly has a wicket from it, as Haddin bottom-edges the ball onto his thigh pad, which deflects it half an inch wide of the stumps. He could so easily have been out twice already. One run from the over, a wide from a bouncer that flew too far over the batsman's head. Only five proper deliveries were bowled. Drinks will now be taken. 6.10am GMT Haddin gets away with one here, playing the signature shot of the 2013-14 Ashes series \u2013 a terrible hook \u2013 but seeing the ball land safely, short of Broad. 6.06am GMT Broad gets five-sixths of the way to a maiden of his own, until Smith pulls the final delivery with extreme prejudice for four. 6.02am GMT A maiden over from the boy Bresnan. 5.57am GMT Key moments these now, with Australia wobbling like Weebles. They need a good partnership, smartish. 5.54am GMT Broad starts the over with a couple of short ball to Bailey, both easily evaded, but when the third is also short the batsman lets rip \u2013 but top-edges his pull to Pietersen at deep square leg!Now Broad gets Bailey, top edge pull, well taken at deep sq leg by KP. Aus 143 for 5 5.51am GMT Apparently this is the hottest day of the year in Perth, with temperatures in the Waca exceeding a sweltering 40C. So Anderson gets a breather, and Bresnan works up a sweat. Smith grabs a couple off the first ball, but that's his lot. 5.47am GMT Swann is replaced with Broad, and that's a pretty expensive over \u2013 no runs off the first ball or the last, but a couple of singles and both Smith (for three) and then Bailey (for four) push the ball through the covers. 5.43am GMT The batsmen help themselves to a single each. Here's the sledging latest courtesy of the Mail's former OBOer Lawrence Booth.Story this morning about how David Warner had been taunting Carberry at Adelaide for \"dropping the Ashes\"... 5.42am GMT Props to Shahril Hamdan, who emailed from Kuala Lumpur perhaps 90 seconds before Warner fell to say he \"felt a wicket coming\". He should really have stopped there, rather than continuing to predict that someone would get stumped off Swann, rather than caught off Anderson, but I'm impressed all the same. 5.36am GMT That's a big wicket for England! Warner cuts the ball straight down the throat of Carberry, whose hands are safe enough this time!Swann gets Warner, top edging cut to backward point where Carberry makes no mistake this time. 5.34am GMT Anderson's first ball is tucked away by Smith through midwicket for four, and those are the only runs from the over. Mike Selvey points out that his planned OBO \"evening with\u2026\" event in January will be involve not David Sake, as suggested here earlier today, but with the England bowling coach David Saker. 5.29am GMT Warner now smacks Swann back past the bowler, this time for four. Nine runs off the over, though the last couple came from a mighty swing, also from Warner, the ball catching the top edge and looping to safety. \"First ball I saw this morning was Warner sending a pretty ugly long-hop from Bresnan over wide long on. Nearly went back to bed,\" writes Dave Adams. \"Seeing Bresnan doing a passable Martin McCague impression made me wonder though - why are Finn and Rankin not playing? There won't be a more suitable pitch for them. If England have places in the squad for players who won't be picked under any circumstances, I'd like to volunteer for the next tour.\" 5.24am GMT Warner doesn't hit it cleanly, but still grabs a couple off Anderson's first ball. Turns out that was a record-breaking six from Smith:Smith off the mark with a 6. Aus' 23rd of the series, their record for most sixes hit in an Ashes. Only England in 2005 have hit more (36). 5.22am GMT With four balls bowled, and Smith still to score having faced 15 deliveries, the pressure was perhaps starting to build on the batsman. And then he smites the next one over the bowler's head for six. Pressure lifted. \"That poem you just posted freaked me out,\" writes Tim Reichelt. \"We haven\u2019t won the Ashes yet and at certain times in the past we have shown that we can crumble to dust with the best of them.\" 5.18am GMT A maiden from Anderson. \"Our office party is tonight at a Sydney harbourside location \u2013 all very swish,\" writes Peter Leybourne in, well, Sydney. \"It starts at 7pm but because of the time difference, the cricket is on the telly here until 8.30pm. I may have to be very late. There's also the matter of my two-year-old's kindergarten concert at 5.30 this afternoon. If I miss that, the wife will be livid. Does anyone know what a two-year-old's concert involves? Eating crisps in time to Jingle Bells perhaps? Crying because the crisps have run out?\" I myself have endured two-year-olds' concerts, and think your child will want to see at least one familiar face in the audience, but if your wife is going that's quite enough representation for one family and you should watch the cricket with a clear conscience. 5.14am GMT Swann restarts proceedings, and Warner brings up his half-century with a single. \"Am I wrong to think that the groundsmen (or is it the chief executives?) can't be trusted with the foreknowledge of who will be batting first in Tests two thru five?\" asks Marie Meyer of the single-toss plan. Well they wouldn't really know \u2013 the captain whose turn it was to choose would do so on the morning of the Test. 5.10am GMT Dab the corners of your mouth with your napkin. Lunch is over, the players are back out, and action is very much about to happen. 5.05am GMT A tasty first session, with England visibly sharper in the field than they have been recently, and getting all the encouragement they need to remain so. 'Tis a shame about the toss, which is one of the things I'd change about Test cricket \u2013 me, I'd have a single coin toss before the first match of a series, with the decision to bat or field alternating between the teams thereafter, to avoid a run of toss victories/defeats that has the potential to skew a series.Anyway, email me please at simon.burnton@theguardian.com. Whatever happens in Perth, the next five hours will pass more pleasurably with your help.Updated at 5.05am GMT 4.56am GMT It was The Guardian's Christmas party last night. The drinks flowed free in a central London location as the newspaper's staff let their haird down in officially-sanctioned style. All except for this OBOer, tucked up in bed nice and early in preparation for a 3.55am alarm. And England reckon they lost the toss.Anyway, this arrived overnight from James Anderson (not that one) and Duncan Innes, who were unusually moved to poetry, rather than tears and tantrums, by England's first-couple-of-Tests performances:The Australian came down like the wolf on the fold,And his cohorts were gleaming in em'rald and gold;And the Englishmen quailed at the sight of their 'taches,And meekly collapsed to surrender the Ashes.Yet back in the old times, when Summer was here,T'was then that the Aussies did tremble in fear;But now tables are turning as Winter draws nighAnd hopes for a victory dwindle and die.While far round the world all their countrymen slept,The English, once brilliant, were wholly inept;And the dreams of those sleepers waxed deadly and chill,Till they woke in the morn to a score of two-nil.And there stood the batsman with eyes pale and wide, With fear in his heart where there once had been pride;After tortuous minutes pinned back in his crease,He holed out legside with perplexing caprice.And there stood the bowler, all taken apart,With sweat on his brow and dismay in his heart.And the army was silent, not even a groan,Their banners unlifted, their trumpet unblown.The press and the pundits cry out in despair,And Boycott and Aggers are tearing their hair;And the might of the English, once lauded so high,Hath melted like snow 'neath the hot southern sky. 4.40am GMT And that is LUNCH. Break out the lobsterfish, crack a frothy bottle of fromage, lay out the sherry platter and polish the shrimp spoons. We're having a caviar cheesecake aperitif for dessert.Big session both ways - over a hundred runs in it for the Aussies, but England will be pumped to have three wickets, including the main main Clarke. Warner is the big wicket now. His scores this series: 49, 124, 29, 83*, 49*. That's some run.Mike Selvey has let us know that David Saker will be joining him for an \"Evening With...\" event in January, in a pub to be decided by consultation with OBO readers. It's part of the cancer research fundraiser we mentioned earlier, check that out here.That's it for me, I will be handing over to Simon Burnton to take you through the rest of the day's play, bless his carpal tunnel. It's a beautifully poised match right now, and we've got plenty to look forward to. Thanks for having me - this is Geoff Lemon signing off.Updated at 5.41am GMT 4.33am GMT Another quiet one from Stokes, Warner just gets the single that moves him to the verge of a third 50 in this series. Stokes keeping things tight in the lead-up to lunch.Fashionistas. Sedhu wants to know something. \"My question is rather casual and probably less significant in the larger scheme of things,\" he says - false modesty, Sedhu. \"But why is Clarke batting with full sleeve in the first innings and half sleeve in the second?\"We demand answers.Updated at 4.52am GMT 4.27am GMT So it's Steve Smith finishing that over, and he repeats Clarke's shot but keeps it on the ground, then drives lavishly to mid off but can't get through. Also skipping around to the off spinner. Success for Swann in his first over, one wicket and one run conceded. 4.24am GMT That's a huge one, and not just because it's Clarke. Swann came on for his first ball, conceded a single to Warner, then struck with his second ball. Clarke just tried to drive to mid on with his usual footwork, and instead got that ball wider toward midwicket, and accidentally lifted it a little. It was dying on Cook at a shortish midwicket, but he leapt forward and got his fingers under the ball. Huge win for Swann to get some confidence, and for Cook to get into the game. 4.22am GMT Stokes has bowled four overs for ten runs now, not bad at all on this deck. That one's a maiden, Clarke content to stay watchful. Fair call, no need to rush with Warner on the move. 4.18am GMT Salt, meet wounds. The reports will record that as a dropped catch - Warner pulled, Bresnan stuck a hand out but the ball was well wide of him and just deflected off his fingers. To celebrate the reprieve, Warner drove a boundary through cover, then pulled a thigh-high ball way into the midwicket stand for six. What a shot that was. Some sixes these days seem almost apologetic, but that one had its feet on the coffee table and was drinking Bresnan's best Scotch. 4.13am GMT A quiet Stokes over there, just a single from the first ball. Australia consolidating here, their two form batsmen of the series settling in at the crease. 4.09am GMT Bresnan returns to try and force some kind of change. The thermometer has topped 40 degrees at the ground. Bresnan gets amazing lift from a full ball, but Clarke pulls it hard for four.The upside of England's recent form has been an upsurge in productivity. Says Alex, \"I've noticed a significant shift in my attitude towards the OBO. During the last two Ashes series, I got almost nothing done, constantly flicking to the browser for the score. With the exception of the first couple of days in Brisbane, I'm now doing everything possible to avoid it. Such as actually working.\" 4.04am GMT Another reasonable over from Stokes, he's showing a bit. Got a slight mis-hit from Clarke, but then conceded a four steered through gully. Clarke got a single off a short ball, but wasn't entirely comfortable, then Warner got a sharp bouncer to duck under. 3.59am GMT Warner has been resisting Broad's short balls, but gets on on a line that he likes and lifts it with the uppercut over slips. It goes for four, but went very high and rolled away slowly after it pitched. Not entirely controlled. His next shot was, a hard cover drive to a ball that wasn't at all full, but Warner held the bat high and drove almost off the back foot. Hit is perfectly - not the highest-percentage shot though. He sways away from a follow-up bouncer, so he can still resist some temptation. 3.57am GMT Ben Stokes comes on for his first bowl of the day. Interesting to see him keep his place, he looked more likely with the ball than the bat in Adelaide. His fourth ball is a wide full toss that Clarke redirects with a gentle placement of the bat for four. A couple of nice deliveries in that over though. He's a prospect, is Stokes. 3.51am GMT A maiden! Much better from Broad there, got his lengths right and started using that lift from the pitch. Had Warner hopping a couple of times. 3.47am GMT That was looking a tight over from Bresilad, but Clarke drove the fifth ball down the ground with far more style than his last such shot. It wasn't too full, but Clarke manged better than Watson did. 3.43am GMT Huge over, this, from Broad. Warner takes three with another off-side punch. Four leg byes from a deflection through fine leg, then Clarke cracks one down the ground for four. That wasn't his most elegant shot, he had an angled bat and it was a bit of a heave, but it worked. Gets the quick single to cover next ball. Broad has leaked runs today - technically 23 from four overs, but the leg byes came from his poor line.I'm getting of mail in from around the world. Worried Englishmen and women in WA who need the win to stay sane. A shout-out to Martin dodging traffic in Mumbai. The Americans are following the lead of US Cricket Guy to get involved . From Jake in the States: \"I'm an American, married to an Australian, and raising a little Australian-Yank 4 year old boy in DC. Like me, and unlike his aghast Aussie mum (who thought she'd escaped the game upon hieing to the US), he took to cricket like a duck to water, and has been following these Ashes with great interest and enjoyment.\"Well played sir. Also Simon would like to salute his friend Cecilia Lee, \"an American working with some Aussies in Scotland, who finds herself in the unenviable position of siding with England against the Aussie co-workers but also sharing in the general Scottish schadenfreude with everyone else. Top marks though for even giving a toss about the cricket.\" I concur. But was that toss an advantage? 3.35am GMT Bresnan bowling with a short leg to Clarke. Taps a single to midwicket. Warner forces three with a back-foot punch through cover point. Bresnan bowling with some control here. 3.29am GMT Two more low scores for the men who can least afford them, on a brilliant batting pitch. Interesting comments from Mark Taylor (I know!) that Watson is so intent on getting forward and avoiding the lbw that he's not reading the length of the ball. Here and at Brisbane he's driven at balls that just weren't full enough, as well as that pull shot to one that wasn't short enough.First wicket for Broad, Clarke sees out the next couple of balls, without alarm gets off the mark with a quick single to cover. England will be glad to have him out there this early.Updated at 3.33am GMT 3.26am GMT What did I say... Watson gone. Just a length ball, Watson drove too boldly at it, and got a big fat edge to slip. 3.24am GMT Bit of a streaky over for Watson, he needs to settle. Edges four to third man of a big swatted top edge, then scores three in the air past mid off to raise the Australian 50. 3.22am GMT Chris Pitts wants to know, \"Has anyone, or a well trained computer, quantified how much it's worth for one team to win the toss? Like, how many first innings runs?\"On the same theme, Kieran Bettely has pointed out the table below, with this question. (I am not trusted to do anything with numbers - you've heard how the scorecard confuses me - so I'd appreciate your help, dear reader.)\"Now, I can't work out how this would happen.\u00a0Surely if I win the toss and win, then the other team lost the toss and lost. So shouldn't the number match up? I'm sure there's some logical explanation for this...\" 3.16am GMT The first maiden of the day. Anderson beat Warner with a snorter first up, and a quiet over followed. 3.12am GMT It's the eighth over and things are already looking dire for England. Tim Bresnan brought on to replace the expensive Broad, but Watson has seen how Warner's going and wants in. First ball from Bresnan is clanged through cover for another boundary.A fair question from Toyin on this bouncy deck. \"No Finn. No Tremlett. No Rankin. What was all that twaddle about our seven-foot bowlers trundling in to deliver steepling bouncers at afrighted antipodeans?\" So why did they bring the tall ones? Bresnan has skid, Anderson swing, only Broad is a bouncy fellow. 3.07am GMT Bang. First ball of Anderson's next over is over-pitched, and Warner gets that nicely down the ground. Three boundaries in five balls from Warner now, 16 from 13 balls. Drives the next one in sliced fashion through the covers and gets two, wasn't a firm hit, took the outside half of the bat. A sighter for Warner who nails the next cover drive three balls later. 22 from 18 at the over's end. That's a gear change.Updated at 3.11am GMT 3.03am GMT Well, that didn't last long. Warner punches Broad down the ground for that first boundary, then gets one on his hip that he helps round to square leg for another. Bat pad is out now, and deep square leg has been sent out. Chappelli is livid. \"Captain has to stand up to his bowler.\" Warner pinches a single with a defensive shot that rolls out toward cover. 2.59am GMT Warner starting in singles here, collects one more from Anderson, before Watson gets a half glide, half edge along the ground to third man. What odds on two other batsmen hitting a boundary before Warner's first?Updated at 3.04am GMT 2.58am GMT Hahaha oh my, that was humour! There was a car ad on the TV, and the couple are buying a car, and the man says something about room for his golf clubs and the pregnant wife is all like \"You mean the baby gear\" - oh that's funny, do you get it? Because men and women are different, right, and men only ever think about sport, and women only ever think about babies, and men have to fool their tyrannical wives to get to their sport and then they get busted and put on that goofy man-who's-been-caught face, and how witty was that agency's observation about people, right? Right? And basically the human race should end itself right now. 2.53am GMT What a stop by Anderson. Watson utterly creamed a cover drive, but Anderson was full length, off the ground, and stretching one hand right out to snare that ball, then bounced up like compo rubber to aim at the stumps in case they'd set off for another Self-Destructo Single. Hot stuff in the field from your lead paceman. Watto did get two through midwicket before that though. 2.50am GMT A quiet one from Anderson, Watto off the mark with one, then a wide from a high bouncer to Warner.Do you English people have any idea how hard it is to reverse the habit of a lifetime and write 15 for 1? I keep trying to write 1/15 and then realising you'd get over-excited. 2.47am GMT Elizabeth Saxton is telling me that Land of Hope and Glory is actually England's national anthem, not God Save the Queen. I won't dare dispute it, perhaps someone out there knows the full story.In the meantime, some nice words from Greg Pemberton on the anthems: \"I definitely regret the intrusion of jingoism into cricket where the the shared creams/whites of either team emphasised their sharing of cricket as an ethos above tribe, with only caps or ties-as-belts gave subtle hints of origins. At the SCG as a teenager, I much preferred the silent expectation before a ripple of polite applause greeted what Cardus called something like a white waterfall as the players skipped down the stairs of the grandstand.\" 2.44am GMT What an eventful over. The first ball from Broad was short and had Warner fending. But Warner got a single from the second, then Rogers nudged two through midwicket, then played a beautiful on-drive to the midwicket boundary, followed by a leg glance for four, then ran himself out off the last ball. He called yes, Warner responded, then Rogers just paused. Put in the dive, but it was no good. He had 11 from 9 balls on what was his home deck for years. A huge waste of an opportunity. 2.40am GMT Oh, calamity. The third umpire is called for, but it was clear from the live shot. Rogers had taken runs at ease through that over, then tapped the last ball to the on side, hesitated a split second, then set off for one that wasn't there. Anderson had the stumps down in a flash from a shortish mid on. What an absolute waste of a dismissal from Rogers.Updated at 2.42am GMT 2.36am GMT Holy nickels. This pitch is zinging. James Anderson hasn't bowled a bouncer with that much pep in... well, the recorded history of time. Rogers played a lot of state cricket for WA for many years before moving to Victoria, so he's unfazed. Gets one outside off, then the big bouncer over middle stump, then shovels a fuller ball to the gap wide of mid on for a scurried single. Warner's also off from his first ball with a leg glance, misdirect there from Jimmy. 2.32am GMT Chris Roget's Thesaurus facing Hams Handerson. Did I read that right? 2.29am GMT ... to make themselves known. There's no need, they are. Plenty of excellent correspondence so far about the West. From Dan Osborn, \"It's interesting to note that England's anxieties may not be confined to the field of play whilst in Perth. Local custom dictates that residents and visitors alike must make a suitable offering to the giant squid which lurks in the mighty Swan River.\"From Tom Johnstone: \"I'm from Perth and remember waking to the hot easterly with a day of (distinctly medium pace) bowling ahead. My only comment to the English: don't let the flies bother you - they're just patting you on the back for trying your best.\"And from Nick, \"As an Englishman, I'll make the blanket assumption the State of Western Australia is rubbish. Too hot, too far away, too bouncy a Walkabout. That's post-colonialism: making stuff up is all we have left now. Enjoy your lovely country/Ashes win.\" 2.26am GMT Does anyone think it's a bit unnecessary having all this national anthem business? I know we've got two national teams here, but we all know where they're from. 2.25am GMT At least for Dom the Pom in Geelong (his title, not mine).Cometh the hour, cometh the man. Today, Friday the 13th, will be Cook's day.**Conditions apply: see caveats** for details**Assuming he wins the toss, bats first, Ryan Harris declared unfit and Mitchell Johnson gets a nasty attack of migraine / nerves / gastro / drug induced psychosis / leprosy / beard rash******delete as appropriate 2.21am GMT Our cricketing spiritual leader, Mike Selvey, has been asking for OBO readers' help. His wife Sarah is doing good work trying to raise money for research into an extremely rare cancer, Cholangiocarcinoma. Sarah's brother David died of this extremely quickly earlier this year, and there's very little research into the disease.Sarah is raising money through a JustGiving page, by doing a charity run. She's had great support from OBO readers, but it would be great to get her over the 2000-pound mark this match. If you can help out, please head over to http://www.justgiving.com/Sarah-Selvey1 and leave a message for Sarah and the rest of David's family. 2.15am GMT There's some extremely poignant symphonic music playing over a Clarke montage. A brave spaceship pilot will sacrifice himself to save his planet by flying straight into the invading fleet leader's reactor core any minute now... any minute.I wonder what tunes Cook will get. Something ordered and Teutonic. 2.10am GMT How unlikely is it that two opposing captains would manage to play their 100th Tests matches at the same time. That's some Illuminati business happening right there, I can tell you. It's also a bit mean, because one of them is going to have to have a miserable time while the other is happy. Would you rather lose your milestone Test against your full-strength arch-enemy, or win it against an understrength West Indies side completely out of their depth in three days? 2.05am GMT We've got minimal changes on the team front. The same XI for Australia - how long since they played the seam team three matches in a row. Only one change for England - Bresnan coming back in for Monty. Should they have kept Swann on here? Should they have given old Lanky Rankin a run on this pitch? Should I phrase everything as a rhetorical question? 2.00am GMT Nothing going England's way here. Michael Clarke even does a little dance as he tries to step the wrong way and falls over. Australia are, you will be shocked to know, going to bat. 1.58am GMT Good to see the coverage off to a great start, with a video report on Michael Vaughan playing a knockabout football match. It must be extremely validating to have every mundane facet of your life captured by camera crews for distribution to a national and international audience. Now if only we could a few banter-filled anecdotes about commentators' playing days! 1.54am GMT The start. It's easy, hey? No one is winning, no one is losing, no one has gobbed off at anyone yet. Geoff Lemon joining you from the far Antipodes for this civilised early encounter. It is blazing hot here in Perth, and not yet 10am, and that's the real 10am because they hold no truck with this daylight savings rubbish here in the West. So it's going to be a tough old day.Fire off an email as you see fit on the state of play, the state of commentary, or the State of Western Australia. 1.00am GMT Geoff's at the Waca and will be here shortly. In the meantime, here are a few things to keep you occupied \u2026Alastair Cook has described the third Test as \"do or die\" for England, though the captain's cause was immediately hindered when Monty Panesar suffered an injury scare to further complicate England's delicate selection process.Panesar, who made his first international appearance in almost nine months in the second Test defeat at Adelaide, was unable to bowl in the team's penultimate practice session at the Waca because of a sore side. He did some fitness and fielding drills on the outfield and England say he is still available but they will not want to take any chances given the forecast temperatures of up to 39C over the weekend.Continue reading here \u2026Back in 2001 I was a novice reporter working for Australia's Channel Seven in Sydney when I interviewed a relatively unknown 19-year-old left-arm fast bowler called Mitchell Johnson.I wanted to write a profile for its sports website after seeing some comments online from the legendary Dennis Lillee about a young fast bowler he was calling a \"once-in-a-lifetime prospect\". Two years earlier, so the story goes, Lillee had phoned his old team-mate Rod Marsh and told him to \"get this kid into the [Australian Cricket] Academy\" after seeing him bowl only three balls.Continue reading here \u2026Updated at 6.01am GMT", "tags": ["Ashes 2013-14", "Australia cricket team", "England cricket team", "The Ashes", "Cricket", "Over by over reports", "Australia sport"], "title": "Ashes: Australia v England \u2013 as it happened | Geoff Lemon and Simon Burnton"},{"date": "2013-12-12T11:36:29Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In two run-down caravans and a couple of old tents on a farm in some of Australia's best wool-growing country, a dark secret of intergenerational incest and child abuse that has dominated the lives of 40 members of one family for decades has come to light.In a community of around 2,000 people, three and a half hours' drive south-west of Sydney, genetic testing has shown 11 children in one family have parents who are related to each other, some closely. Questions are now being asked about why it took authorities so long to act on warnings that children were at risk.Each child had suffered years of sexual abuse, perpetrated by brothers, sisters, cousins, fathers, an uncle and a grandfather over four generations.The extended family first came to the attention of authorities in June 2010. Over the next two years, seven 'risk of significant harm reports' were issued, mostly relating to neglect, failure to seek necessary medical attention and failure to ensure the children attended school.The makeshift camp where the family lived had no running water or toilets. The children did not know how to use toilet paper and some could not brush their teeth and ate with their hands. Dirt covered one of the caravan's cooking facilities and rotten vegetables lay in a fridge. A kangaroo slept on one of the children's beds.Initially the family complied with a request in June 2012 from social services to improve their living conditions but a month later 12 children, all cousins, ranging in age from five to 15 years, were removed by police after the authorities concluded that they would be at risk of harm if they remained at the property.The children were filthy, malnourished and barely able to speak. Some had moderate intellectual disabilities and could not be understood by social workers. Others had chronic hearing, sight and dental issues. One child, a nine year-old girl, was described as having 'dysmorphic' features. None had attended school regularly, if at all.It soon emerged these children have been living a nightmare that went far beyond neglect. Assessed by psychologists and social workers, the children exhibited sexualised behaviour and reported that they had engaged in \"inappropriate sexual conduct\" with each other.The intergenerational abuse is thought to date back 40 years. The grandparents of the children removed, Timothy and June Colt (pseudonyms given to them by the court), married in New Zealand in 1966. They had seven children, Rhonda, Betty, Cherry, Frank, Charlie, Paula and Martha (all pseudonyms). The family moved to Australia, living in various locations across four states.Three of Timothy and June's daughters \u2013 Betty, 46, Rhonda, 47, and Martha, 33 \u2013 who lived together in squalor on the rural property, are mothers to 11 of the 12 children removed. The fourth mother is Betty's 30-year-old daughter, Raylene.Only Rhonda's five-year-old daughter was found not to have been fathered by a blood relative.Betty, Martha and Raylene each deny that their children are the progeny of incestuous relationships, despite the fact that genetic testing has proved otherwiseThree of the girls aged seven, eight and nine claimed that their uncle, Charlie Colt, was also their father. He lived on the property when the children were removed. The nine year-old also claimed Charlie Colt had sex with her.It's believed that the family patriarch, Timothy Colt, who died in 2009, fathered children with one of his daughters and one of his granddaughters.Five of the boys removed also admitted to torturing animals on the farm including puppies and cats. They also said they had mutilated the genitals of animals.All of the removed children will remain in care until the age of 18. The case came to light after the children's court of New South Wales took the unusual step of publishing its judgment in the case.", "tags": ["Australia news", "New South Wales", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Child protection"], "title": "Australia incest case shocks country"},{"date": "2013-11-28T22:00:10Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Guardian Australia has won a Walkley award for multimedia storytelling for Firestorm, an interactive project centred around the January bushfire in Dunalley, Tasmania.The judges said\u00a0Firestorm \u201cbrought to life\u201d the story of the Holmes family \u2013 whose photos of them fleeing the Dunalley fire and sheltering under a jetty were seen all over the world \u2013 through text, photographs, video, audio and graphics.\u201cCombining text with vivid imagery and high-quality video, they have woven their narrative into a compelling and immersive multimedia reconstruction,\u201d read the judgment.Guardian Australia launched just six months ago.\u201cWe are delighted to be recognised by the Walkleys for our digital journalism so soon after launching the Guardian in Australia,\u201d said the editor-in-chief, Katharine Viner.\u201cWe're trying to find innovative ways to tell Australian stories and Firestorm has had a global impact. Thanks to our fantastic readers for welcoming us so warmly.\u201dThe annual award ceremony which recognises excellence in Australian journalism was held in Brisbane and hosted by the ABC Lateline presenter Emma Alberici.Guardian Australia\u2019s deputy political editor, Katharine Murphy, was nominated for for commentary, analysis, opinion and critique for her articles analysing the leadership of former prime minister Julia Gillard and exploring the values that drive the prime minister, Tony Abbott.The nominated body of work included Julia Gillard: where did it all go wrong?, Tony Abbott has another rival in the toughest race of his life \u2013 himself and Tony Abbott keeps the Catholic faith, quietly.The Gold Walkley, the highest accolade, went to the\u00a0Newcastle Herald journalist Joanne McCarthy, whose work investigating child sexual abuse within the Newcastle and Hunter region Catholic clergy led to the royal commission.The presenter of ABC TV\u2019s Australian Story, Caroline Jones, won the Walkley for outstanding contribution to journalism, and Gerard Ryle, director of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, won the leadership award.", "tags": ["Media", "Awards and prizes", "Australia news", "Bushfires"], "title": "Guardian Australia wins Walkley award"},{"date": "2013-11-17T06:52:09Z", "country": "australia", "content": "An estimated 60,000 people have attended rallies across Australia in one of the largest ever displays of support for action on climate change.Labor and Greens politicians, alongside volunteer firefighters and environmental activists, took turns at the Climate Action Day to lambast the Coalition government, which will table bills in parliament on Monday to dismantle carbon pricing.Around 25,000 people gathered on Sunday in the Melbourne sunshine, with Labor's environment spokesman, Mark Butler, reaffirming to the crowd that the opposition would not back down in its support for carbon pricing.\"In Australia, unlike in most other countries, there's an atmosphere of denialism and scepticism,\" he said. \"So many in our media and so many of our politicians, who should know better, deny that the science is settled.\"This isn't the time to move backwards. You'll hear a lot this week from Tony Abbott about his mandate. He'll tell all of you to get out of the way as he tries to slam Australia into reverse. But we won't be taking a backwards step, not this week, not this year, or next year or ever.\"The Greens' deputy leader, Adam Bandt, told the gathering that Australia needed a \"Churchill rather than a Chamberlain\" on climate, while Peter Marshall of the United Firefighters Union said an increase in the number of severe bushfires meant there were \"no climate sceptics on the end of a fire hose\" among volunteer fire crews.Tim Flannery, head of the Climate Commission, which was axed by the Coalition after it took power, urged the crowd to use \"every effort within the law to slow the uptake of fossil fuels\".\"If we let we let the world get warmer it'll have an impact on fire weather and the ocean is going to expand,\" he said. \"These are pretty simple propositions, they aren't propositions for argument by anyone. They need to be accepted as the facts and we need to move forward with the risk in our mind.\"About 10,000 people attended a rain-drenched rally in Sydney addressed by the Labor deputy leader, Tanya Plibersek. About 5,000 turned up in Brisbane and across Australia more than 130 events were held in capital cities and regional towns, organisers said.The rallies, by early estimates from organisers, will have attracted more people than the Walk Against Warming events in 2006, in which 40,000 people urged then-prime minister John Howard to do more on the issue of climate change.Activist group GetUp, along with environmental lobby groups Australian Conservation Foundation and Greenpeace, organised the events.Sam Mclean, GetUp's national director, denied that the Coalition had the broad support of the public for its aim of scrapping carbon pricing in favour of its Direct Action policy, in which businesses will be offered incentives to reduce emissions.\"In any analysis of the election Tony Abbott has no mandate to go backwards on climate change,\" Mclean said. \"Our own polling has shown that 69% of people want stronger action on climate change. We need to know what Tony Abbott will do, because the policy he has outlined so far is a joke.\"", "tags": ["Australian politics", "Australia news", "Carbon tax", "Environment"], "title": "Climate rallies held across Australia"},{"date": "2013-12-20T01:07:03Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It was early March, 2013. Former Australian prime minister John Howard took the stage in a cavernous convention hall in Ottawa. \u201cCan I start by saying you have no reason to be concerned about the state of conservatism in this country,\u201d he told the crowd of Canadian conservatives who\u2019d gathered for the Manning Centre\u2019s annual networking conference. \u201cI can\u2019t find a better conservative leader anywhere in the world than [Canadian prime minister] Stephen Harper. I really can\u2019t.\u201d\u00a0One wonders whether Howard would say the same thing now. Not because Harper\u2019s recent domestic scandal\u00a0has called into question the purity of his party\u2019s convictions, the increasing centralisation of power in his office, and his own leadership qualities, but because he now has what many consider an ideological body-double Down Under. But as much as Canada\u2019s Conservative party membership may love to hear how similar they are to their Australian cousins, it might be one key difference that matters most in the long run.Perhaps not since Harper recited one of Howard\u2019s speeches verbatim, without credit, in the House of Commons, have the Canadian and Australian governments been reading so closely from the same page. The two nations were jointly responsible for blocking a Commonwealth initiative to establish a climate fund for poor nations in November; Abbott has, as Harper did, promised to squash asylum seekers landing ashore by boat from Asia; and Abbott\u2019s platform carried the promise of further mandatory minimum sentencing for gun crimes. The Harper government has already implemented the same for some sexual and drug offences.\u00a0So when Abbott\u2019s government killed the Australian carbon tax, it was little surprise that the loudest cheer came from Ottawa. The prime minister\u2019s parliamentary secretary, Paul Calandra, told the House\u00a0that Canada \u201capplauds\u201d the decision, and that Abbott\u2019s move \u201csends an important message.\u201d Which is true for a few reasons.It was important for the Conservative government for purely rhetorical uses. It provided fresh fodder for a tired, farcical\u00a0talking point against Canada\u2019s opposition New Democrats, who the government alleges would implement something similar if ever given power.Also important: it clearly showed the Harper Conservatives have a staunch ideological ally \u2013 finally.The fact that the two parties and leaders are allies isn\u2019t a total shock. The parallels between Abbott and Harper were easily drawn months ago. Both are economists. Both are young. Both were grown into leaders after long-term grassroots participation in conservatism. And just as easily linked are the messaging strategies, borne from continued and very close relationship between the Canadian Conservative and Australian Liberal parties. Abbott\u2019s election night promise of guaranteeing a government \u201cthat is competent, that is trustworthy, and which purposefully and steadfastly and methodically sets about delivering on our commitments,\u201d would sound nice (and familiar) to Harper\u2019s \u201cstrong, stable, national Conservative majority government.\u201d\u00a0And Conservatives will tell you the Liberals have recently turned to Harper and his team for guidance, and found a very welcoming ear. They had to return the favour, after all. Earlier this decade key figures within the Conservative party like strategic planner Patrick Muttart, were studying Australia\u2019s successes \u2013 particularly Howard\u2019s ability to covet the working- and middle-class. They adopted and adapted aspects of it to eventual success. That\u2019s useful for both sides, if only to do what Calandra did and justify each other\u2019s existence and continued power.But maybe most interestingly, Abbott\u2019s decision provides an important message for Canada\u2019s grassroots conservatives, if they want to hear it.\u00a0Harper\u2019s current troubles have come since Conservative senator Mike Duffy was found to have incorrectly billed taxpayers for living and travel expenses and that, to rectify the imbalance, Harper\u2019s then-chief of staff offered to pay it out of his own pocket. The police also allege\u00a0that other member\u2019s of Harper\u2019s inner circle knew of the payment and coached Duffy to instead tell the public a different story. Harper has claimed ignorance of the entire affair, but it has severely damaged his reputation as an incorruptible straight-shooter and a no-nonsense manager \u2013 the kind of image Abbott is also trying to form despite an expenses row of his own.But here, there is one key difference between the two. Abbott leads a group of MPs that can get rid of him; Harper leads a group of MPs who cannot, as he \u2013 like all Canadian political leaders \u2013 is instead chosen by the party membership. However, coming down the pike is a bill from a backbench Conservative MP that aims, in part, to change that, and return that power to the base. It could prove crucial.\u201cThe most important thing always in politics is to stand for something,\u201d Howard said in March. \u201cAnd once a government looks as though it doesn\u2019t stand for something and has lost its way philosophically, it\u2019s only a matter of time before the public vote it out.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Tony Abbott", "Stephen Harper", "Environment", "Australian immigration and asylum", "Carbon tax"], "title": "Australia and Canada: a conservative bromance | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2013-12-13T10:09:39Z", "country": "australia", "content": " 10.09am GMT From 143-5, 326-6 represents a magnificent comeback for Australia, for whom Smith has been the best batsman by a margin. So another disappointing day in the end for England, who desperately need to bat to their potential when they get their opportunity tomorrow. Well, I'm assuming it'll be tomorrow\u2026That's all for me. Thanks for your emails and your attention, and I'll be back a little after 4am (gulp) tomorrow morning.Aus 326 for six at the close, Smith 103 and Johnson 39. Initiative to Aus in last hour but this is a top pitch on which to bat. 10.03am GMT Five Bresnan dot balls and a simple two through midwicket, and today is officially over, cricket-wise. \"Despite the wicket of Haddin, this is depressing stuff,\" moans Guy Hornsby. \"I know the talk is of 'well if we can get them for under 350', but right now Smith looks about as likely to give his wicket away as Beefy is to sing Let It Snow with a Santa hat on. I can't help feeling that Australia's tail will wag, and we'll be stuffed trying to chase 450. Yes, I'm a pessimist. But I'm also hung over, and tired, and nothing grinds you down like a dominant Australian cricket team. Feel my pain.\" You are not alone. 9.58am GMT The shadows are long and dark now, and that's just under my eyes. We'll have one more over before stumps, and if this isn't to go down as Australia's day it needs to be a two-wicket maiden. 9.54am GMT England are taking their time here, fiddling with the field between each delivery, and Johnson, unbothered, smacks successive boundaries. He's now scored 144 runs this series; England's most successful batsman, Joe Root has scored 130. 9.49am GMT Anderson beats Johnson's edge, and then Smith's, but the Australians survive with ball unedged. Anderson's economy rate, at 2.68, is the best of England's bowlers by a way. 9.43am GMT Johnson edges the ball this time, but it goes nowhere near a fielder, instead flashing through an empty gully and away for four. 9.39am GMT Three runs off Anderson's first two nballs and none off the other four. Signs of an imminent new-ball-based breakthrough unforthcoming. \"We haven't been subjected to Jerusalem at the start of play in this series (the cricket equivalent of the England football's brass band), so it was a nice reminder last night when an office party was booted out of my local pub for singing it very loudly whilst hugging one another,\" writes David Hopkins. In my limited experience that sounds like unusual office behaviour, even at the end of a Christmas party. Certainly doesn't happen on the sports desk nights out.Updated at 9.41am GMT 9.34am GMT Stuart Broad takes the first over with the new ball, as we enter a bonus half-hour tacked on to the end of today's play because we're all enjoying it so much. Johnson grabs a single. 9.30am GMT The batsmen grab a one each from Swann's over, the last with the old ball. 9.27am GMT Joe Root does some bowling, and Johnson thumps the ball dead straight for a one-bounce four. \"With all the talk in the Guardian recently of 'selfies', 'lelfies' and 'belfies', was that a 'selvie'?\" ponders Charles Evison of that Selvey-with-fan shot. I think it most probably was. 9.24am GMT Johnson swats Swann through point for four. Jokes I wish I got part 2: \"I\u2019d like to reassure Fergus (over 75) that he\u2019ll be able to see plenty of \u2018nasty, brutish and short\u2019 when the Australians are bowling,\" snorts Phil Deans. 9.21am GMT Stokes bowls, Smith edges, Cook collects, but the ball bounced a foot in front of him. A lucky let-off there! Smith regains his composure over the next couple of balls, and then slaps one down the ground for four, and pulls yet another short ball, and an over that could have seen his downfall instead sees him bring up his century. \"Over on TMS Vaughan is talking about how it's an amazing stat that we've got to the third test and only had one LBW,\" reports Tim Zobu. \"I think the amazing stat is that it wasn't Shane Watson.\" 9.14am GMT Johnson hits Swann's first two deliveries in the air, but safe. \"A very adaptable body part, the thigh, for euphemistic purposes,\" notes Matthew Clapham. \"I remember back in the day of watching too much test cricket (1980s in my case) that a blow to the box would invariably be described as having 'struck him very painfully at the top of the inner thigh'.\" 9.10am GMT \"I've an exam on political philosophy at 12 but can't tear myself away from the OBO,\" writes Fergus Carroll, as Australia get some ones ands twos off Stokes. \"I don't know whether to spend my remaining time reading a depressing manifesto on the nature of man or Leviathan by Thomas Hobbes\u2026\" I suspect that people who know what Leviathan by Thomas Hobbes is about will see a clever joke there. 9.06am GMT Despite the imminent new ball, Anderson bowls. Nothing much happens.@selvecricket with his first fan pic.twitter.com/ClPJ8Et3g8 9.04am GMT The ball hits Johnson and Australia run a leg bye. \"It's come off the thigh, slightly higher,\" says David Gower on Sky. It came off his buttock, a word that Gower obviously just can't bring himself to say on air. 8.57am GMT \"Nevermind Mitchell Johnson, surely Brad Haddin has been Australia's man of the series so far?\" suggests Kevin Wilson, as Johnson slams the ball through midwicket for four. \"He's either dug them out of a hole or made a good total insurmountable pretty much every innings. It's easier for Mitch to bowl with loads of runs on the board than when they're defending 250.\" Johnson also has had a useful innings with the bat, but it's all to play for between the two of them. 8.53am GMT Stokes really needs to watch that no ball. The ball before the wicket-taking delivery could easily have been called, too. Bresnan will take over 72, but after that, with eight overs remaining before the new ball, we might get some spin. 8.50am GMT The breakthrough! Haddin is caught by Anderson at midwicket and though there's a heart-in-mouth moment as replays show Stokes' foot mere millimetres from no-ball territory, Haddin's gone! 8.45am GMT Ian Botham is complaining about the number of short deliveries England have bowled today (too many, in his opinion). I can only recall one ball-on-pad collision since I took over OBO duties at lunch, which feels unusually low. 8.41am GMT A rare moment of discomfort for Smith, who tries to work a Stokes delivery through the covers but misses it completely, the ball flashing past his edge. 8.37am GMT Extended shots of Cooke stroking his chin, literally stroking his chin, as he ponders the state of this match and what his ICC-approved captaincy is going to do about it. Bresnan bowls another maiden, and his last three overs have gone for a combined one run. 8.33am GMT Smith cuts a wide delivery from Broad for four, and lets the rest of the over pass him by, his work done. 8.28am GMT Bresnan's third maiden of the day. \"Yes, Smith is obviously doing pretty well,\" John Starbuck concedes, \"but how does his international career compare with all the other Smiths who've played the game?\" These are the key questions facing the lad. As ever, the OBO takes you right to the heart of the game. 8.22am GMT The temperature has dropped to a positively chillsome 33.1C \u2013 nearly 10C lower than today's peak \u2013 which should make England's travails in the field a very small amount more bearable. \"The first sniff of a wicket to break this partnership and it is a complete balls up between Carberry and Root,\" moans Ivan Kinsman. \"England are starting to throw this match away.\" 8.16am GMT Haddin gets away with one there! He scoops the ball into the air off the foot of the bat, but Carberry at deep cover point can't get to it in time to take the catch \u2013 it's not clear that the Englishman knew where it was going until it was too late to do anything about it. He's had a few escapes today, has Haddin. 8.13am GMT Broad comes on, and Smith smacks him through the covers for four. This is serense stuff from Smith, who's sniffing a century and also what would be his first ever series win\u2026 8.06am GMT Haddin watches the first couple of deliveries, and then thumps the third, without moving his feet, over the bowler's head for six. He tries to repeat the dose a couple of balls later, and though the ball doesn't reach the rope this time, there's nobody there to catch it, he runs a couple and that's his half-century. 8.02am GMT And that's another maiden from Anderson, after which Cook, Prior and Bresnan converse at length, trying to work out where a wicket might possibly come from. 7.59am GMT Swann's second ball is thundered away for four, and Smith nearly gets another only for Broad to deal well with his proximity to the boundary rope. \"143-5 seems a long time ago,\" writes Aran Scutcher. \"We dared to dream only for that dream to degenerate into a familiar nightmare. Australia appear to have some steel in the middle of the order which can correct the misdeeds of the earlier batsmen whereas England just seem to crumble like a biscuit dipped too long in tea. I've Haddin-ough.\" 7.56am GMT A maiden from Anderson, but there's been no suddenly increased threat post-tea. 7.51am GMT Time for Cook to show his captain-of-the-year chops, perhaps, with England in need of a wicket from somewhere. Can he conjure anything up? The batsmen grab a single each from Swann's latest over. 7.48am GMT Steve Smith can pull the ball for four. This has been established. But Anderson gives him another chance to show us, which he takes. \"This strikes me as so far being exactly what has happened in the first two Tests,\" reckons Bill Iliffe. \"Unless Billy Bowden intervenes, by reducing Johnson's overs to a couple of balls maybe, I can only see this going one way.\" 7.42am GMT The first ball of the 56th over meets the same fate as the first of the 55th, though this time it's Smith smacking it away for four. 7.39am GMT \"Why has Michael Clarke been named ICC Cricketer of the Year?\" rages Simon Clark, as Haddin boshes Anderson's first delivery of the session through the covers for four. \"Do the ICC only judge performance based on\u00a0what happens in December?! The man lost an Ashes series in England 3-0 and apart from this month, its been a bad year for the Aussie cricket team.\"Australia's 6th and 7th wicket are averaging 91 in this series. England's 6th and 7th average 11.8 #ashes #bbccricket 7.36am GMT The Australia flag flaps merrily as the batsmen come out, the Doctor doing its thing. The ICC awards have just been announced, incidentally, and it's good news for today's 100-cap winners: Alastair Cook is the captain of the year, while Michael Clarke is the cricketer and the Test cricketer of the year. 7.28am GMT Or \"breakfast\", as I call it. From 143-5, England will be disappointed to see Australia now at 220 without further loss, with Smith looking good and Haddin improving after a rocky start. It's all delicately poised ahead of what could turn into a marathon final session. \"I like Billy Bowden as umpire,\" writes Peter Brown, of the seven- and five-ball overs we enjoyed during that session. \"It's a bit of a lucky dip. Maybe he'll forget it's the last session coming up and we'll get a 4th session. Or he'll think it's lunch and we'll get a 40 minute break. Cricktainment at its best.\" 7.13am GMT Bresnan's 14th over of the day, which is three more than Broad and five more than Stokes and Anderson. At least he'll get a breather now, because it's TEA.Tea, 220-5. Another cut and thrust session. 7.10am GMT Hadding pushes Swann's last ball through point and it trundles away slowly with Carberry in hot pursuit, eventually earning the batsman three runs. 7.07am GMT It's turned a bit sedate, Australia's score rolling gently upwards and England currently receiving little encouragement. This is bad news, particularly if, as in my case, your alarm went at 3.45am, you're currently sitting on your sofa in your nightwear and your head is pretty insistent that you should be asleep.Updated at 7.08am GMT 7.05am GMT The batsmen help themselves to a single run each from Swann's latest.Updated at 7.08am GMT 7.00am GMT This pair have put on 60 runs so far, and needs to be broken. Haddin plays and misses, but things improve rapidly thereafter as he slams one through the covers for four and pulls the last ball of the over for another.STAT ALERT: England have conceded a record 72 sixes in 13 Tests in 2013. Their previous record was 53, in 2002. http://t.co/TxhKKAchqO 6.56am GMT Haddin slog-sweeps Swann's second ball over square leg for six, a sign perhaps that his early-innings dodginess is coming to an end. We shall see. 6.52am GMT Smith reaches an excellent half-century with a fine pull shot that sends the ball trundling through midwicket for four, and then does it again for good measure. 6.48am GMT Smith slams Swann's first ball back over his head for six, and then Haddin gets away with another loose shot, which lands between Bresnan and the boundary, at which point his bat decides it's had enough and self-destructs. Updated at 6.52am GMT 6.43am GMT \u2026and then he hits Stokes' first ball, straight and full, off his ankles and away for four. A short ball ends up in an almost identical location, pulled through midwicket for four more. Billy Bowden, who earlier allowed Broad to bowl a five-ball over, makes Stokes bowl a seven-ball over, which is a bit odd.Updated at 6.44am GMT 6.38am GMT Now Swann returns, and after five dot balls we find ourselves precisely three overs on from the last run scored. At which point, Smith scores another run. 6.35am GMT Now Stokes bowls a maiden. Shane Warne reckons that if you bowl three consecutive maidens you get a wicket more often than not, and we're now two-thirds of the way to testing his thesis\u2026Updated at 6.44am GMT 6.30am GMT Another maiden from Bresnan, a chanceless, actionless over bowled to Smith. 6.27am GMT Ben Stokes replaces Broad, and Haddin works the ball through the space where third slip isn't for four. \"All I want for Christmas is for England to run through these last five wickets cheaply please,\" pleads Steven Pye. \"A Haddin century may result in me lashing out at Father Christmas and that would be a little upsetting.\" I don't know, I reckon he's got it coming. 6.23am GMT Smith this time top-edges a pull shot, from Bresnan's last ball, and gets away with it. They've handed England a few cheap wickets today, but they've got away with a few lapses as well. 6.15am GMT Broad, told to have a breather, instead demands another over, and he very nearly has a wicket from it, as Haddin bottom-edges the ball onto his thigh pad, which deflects it half an inch wide of the stumps. He could so easily have been out twice already. One run from the over, a wide from a bouncer that flew too far over the batsman's head. Only five proper deliveries were bowled. Drinks will now be taken. 6.10am GMT Haddin gets away with one here, playing the signature shot of the 2013-14 Ashes series \u2013 a terrible hook \u2013 but seeing the ball land safely, short of Broad. 6.06am GMT Broad gets five-sixths of the way to a maiden of his own, until Smith pulls the final delivery with extreme prejudice for four. 6.02am GMT A maiden over from the boy Bresnan. 5.57am GMT Key moments these now, with Australia wobbling like Weebles. They need a good partnership, smartish. 5.54am GMT Broad starts the over with a couple of short ball to Bailey, both easily evaded, but when the third is also short the batsman lets rip \u2013 but top-edges his pull to Pietersen at deep square leg!Now Broad gets Bailey, top edge pull, well taken at deep sq leg by KP. Aus 143 for 5 5.51am GMT Apparently this is the hottest day of the year in Perth, with temperatures in the Waca exceeding a sweltering 40C. So Anderson gets a breather, and Bresnan works up a sweat. Smith grabs a couple off the first ball, but that's his lot. 5.47am GMT Swann is replaced with Broad, and that's a pretty expensive over \u2013 no runs off the first ball or the last, but a couple of singles and both Smith (for three) and then Bailey (for four) push the ball through the covers. 5.43am GMT The batsmen help themselves to a single each. Here's the sledging latest courtesy of the Mail's former OBOer Lawrence Booth.Story this morning about how David Warner had been taunting Carberry at Adelaide for \"dropping the Ashes\"... 5.42am GMT Props to Shahril Hamdan, who emailed from Kuala Lumpur perhaps 90 seconds before Warner fell to say he \"felt a wicket coming\". He should really have stopped there, rather than continuing to predict that someone would get stumped off Swann, rather than caught off Anderson, but I'm impressed all the same. 5.36am GMT That's a big wicket for England! Warner cuts the ball straight down the throat of Carberry, whose hands are safe enough this time!Swann gets Warner, top edging cut to backward point where Carberry makes no mistake this time. 5.34am GMT Anderson's first ball is tucked away by Smith through midwicket for four, and those are the only runs from the over. Mike Selvey points out that his planned OBO \"evening with\u2026\" event in January will be involve not David Sake, as suggested here earlier today, but with the England bowling coach David Saker. 5.29am GMT Warner now smacks Swann back past the bowler, this time for four. Nine runs off the over, though the last couple came from a mighty swing, also from Warner, the ball catching the top edge and looping to safety. \"First ball I saw this morning was Warner sending a pretty ugly long-hop from Bresnan over wide long on. Nearly went back to bed,\" writes Dave Adams. \"Seeing Bresnan doing a passable Martin McCague impression made me wonder though - why are Finn and Rankin not playing? There won't be a more suitable pitch for them. If England have places in the squad for players who won't be picked under any circumstances, I'd like to volunteer for the next tour.\" 5.24am GMT Warner doesn't hit it cleanly, but still grabs a couple off Anderson's first ball. Turns out that was a record-breaking six from Smith:Smith off the mark with a 6. Aus' 23rd of the series, their record for most sixes hit in an Ashes. Only England in 2005 have hit more (36). 5.22am GMT With four balls bowled, and Smith still to score having faced 15 deliveries, the pressure was perhaps starting to build on the batsman. And then he smites the next one over the bowler's head for six. Pressure lifted. \"That poem you just posted freaked me out,\" writes Tim Reichelt. \"We haven\u2019t won the Ashes yet and at certain times in the past we have shown that we can crumble to dust with the best of them.\" 5.18am GMT A maiden from Anderson. \"Our office party is tonight at a Sydney harbourside location \u2013 all very swish,\" writes Peter Leybourne in, well, Sydney. \"It starts at 7pm but because of the time difference, the cricket is on the telly here until 8.30pm. I may have to be very late. There's also the matter of my two-year-old's kindergarten concert at 5.30 this afternoon. If I miss that, the wife will be livid. Does anyone know what a two-year-old's concert involves? Eating crisps in time to Jingle Bells perhaps? Crying because the crisps have run out?\" I myself have endured two-year-olds' concerts, and think your child will want to see at least one familiar face in the audience, but if your wife is going that's quite enough representation for one family and you should watch the cricket with a clear conscience. 5.14am GMT Swann restarts proceedings, and Warner brings up his half-century with a single. \"Am I wrong to think that the groundsmen (or is it the chief executives?) can't be trusted with the foreknowledge of who will be batting first in Tests two thru five?\" asks Marie Meyer of the single-toss plan. Well they wouldn't really know \u2013 the captain whose turn it was to choose would do so on the morning of the Test. 5.10am GMT Dab the corners of your mouth with your napkin. Lunch is over, the players are back out, and action is very much about to happen. 5.05am GMT A tasty first session, with England visibly sharper in the field than they have been recently, and getting all the encouragement they need to remain so. 'Tis a shame about the toss, which is one of the things I'd change about Test cricket \u2013 me, I'd have a single coin toss before the first match of a series, with the decision to bat or field alternating between the teams thereafter, to avoid a run of toss victories/defeats that has the potential to skew a series.Anyway, email me please at simon.burnton@theguardian.com. Whatever happens in Perth, the next five hours will pass more pleasurably with your help.Updated at 5.05am GMT 4.56am GMT It was The Guardian's Christmas party last night. The drinks flowed free in a central London location as the newspaper's staff let their haird down in officially-sanctioned style. All except for this OBOer, tucked up in bed nice and early in preparation for a 3.55am alarm. And England reckon they lost the toss.Anyway, this arrived overnight from James Anderson (not that one) and Duncan Innes, who were unusually moved to poetry, rather than tears and tantrums, by England's first-couple-of-Tests performances:The Australian came down like the wolf on the fold,And his cohorts were gleaming in em'rald and gold;And the Englishmen quailed at the sight of their 'taches,And meekly collapsed to surrender the Ashes.Yet back in the old times, when Summer was here,T'was then that the Aussies did tremble in fear;But now tables are turning as Winter draws nighAnd hopes for a victory dwindle and die.While far round the world all their countrymen slept,The English, once brilliant, were wholly inept;And the dreams of those sleepers waxed deadly and chill,Till they woke in the morn to a score of two-nil.And there stood the batsman with eyes pale and wide, With fear in his heart where there once had been pride;After tortuous minutes pinned back in his crease,He holed out legside with perplexing caprice.And there stood the bowler, all taken apart,With sweat on his brow and dismay in his heart.And the army was silent, not even a groan,Their banners unlifted, their trumpet unblown.The press and the pundits cry out in despair,And Boycott and Aggers are tearing their hair;And the might of the English, once lauded so high,Hath melted like snow 'neath the hot southern sky. 4.40am GMT And that is LUNCH. Break out the lobsterfish, crack a frothy bottle of fromage, lay out the sherry platter and polish the shrimp spoons. We're having a caviar cheesecake aperitif for dessert.Big session both ways - over a hundred runs in it for the Aussies, but England will be pumped to have three wickets, including the main main Clarke. Warner is the big wicket now. His scores this series: 49, 124, 29, 83*, 49*. That's some run.Mike Selvey has let us know that David Saker will be joining him for an \"Evening With...\" event in January, in a pub to be decided by consultation with OBO readers. It's part of the cancer research fundraiser we mentioned earlier, check that out here.That's it for me, I will be handing over to Simon Burnton to take you through the rest of the day's play, bless his carpal tunnel. It's a beautifully poised match right now, and we've got plenty to look forward to. Thanks for having me - this is Geoff Lemon signing off.Updated at 5.41am GMT 4.33am GMT Another quiet one from Stokes, Warner just gets the single that moves him to the verge of a third 50 in this series. Stokes keeping things tight in the lead-up to lunch.Fashionistas. Sedhu wants to know something. \"My question is rather casual and probably less significant in the larger scheme of things,\" he says - false modesty, Sedhu. \"But why is Clarke batting with full sleeve in the first innings and half sleeve in the second?\"We demand answers.Updated at 4.52am GMT 4.27am GMT So it's Steve Smith finishing that over, and he repeats Clarke's shot but keeps it on the ground, then drives lavishly to mid off but can't get through. Also skipping around to the off spinner. Success for Swann in his first over, one wicket and one run conceded. 4.24am GMT That's a huge one, and not just because it's Clarke. Swann came on for his first ball, conceded a single to Warner, then struck with his second ball. Clarke just tried to drive to mid on with his usual footwork, and instead got that ball wider toward midwicket, and accidentally lifted it a little. It was dying on Cook at a shortish midwicket, but he leapt forward and got his fingers under the ball. Huge win for Swann to get some confidence, and for Cook to get into the game. 4.22am GMT Stokes has bowled four overs for ten runs now, not bad at all on this deck. That one's a maiden, Clarke content to stay watchful. Fair call, no need to rush with Warner on the move. 4.18am GMT Salt, meet wounds. The reports will record that as a dropped catch - Warner pulled, Bresnan stuck a hand out but the ball was well wide of him and just deflected off his fingers. To celebrate the reprieve, Warner drove a boundary through cover, then pulled a thigh-high ball way into the midwicket stand for six. What a shot that was. Some sixes these days seem almost apologetic, but that one had its feet on the coffee table and was drinking Bresnan's best Scotch. 4.13am GMT A quiet Stokes over there, just a single from the first ball. Australia consolidating here, their two form batsmen of the series settling in at the crease. 4.09am GMT Bresnan returns to try and force some kind of change. The thermometer has topped 40 degrees at the ground. Bresnan gets amazing lift from a full ball, but Clarke pulls it hard for four.The upside of England's recent form has been an upsurge in productivity. Says Alex, \"I've noticed a significant shift in my attitude towards the OBO. During the last two Ashes series, I got almost nothing done, constantly flicking to the browser for the score. With the exception of the first couple of days in Brisbane, I'm now doing everything possible to avoid it. Such as actually working.\" 4.04am GMT Another reasonable over from Stokes, he's showing a bit. Got a slight mis-hit from Clarke, but then conceded a four steered through gully. Clarke got a single off a short ball, but wasn't entirely comfortable, then Warner got a sharp bouncer to duck under. 3.59am GMT Warner has been resisting Broad's short balls, but gets on on a line that he likes and lifts it with the uppercut over slips. It goes for four, but went very high and rolled away slowly after it pitched. Not entirely controlled. His next shot was, a hard cover drive to a ball that wasn't at all full, but Warner held the bat high and drove almost off the back foot. Hit is perfectly - not the highest-percentage shot though. He sways away from a follow-up bouncer, so he can still resist some temptation. 3.57am GMT Ben Stokes comes on for his first bowl of the day. Interesting to see him keep his place, he looked more likely with the ball than the bat in Adelaide. His fourth ball is a wide full toss that Clarke redirects with a gentle placement of the bat for four. A couple of nice deliveries in that over though. He's a prospect, is Stokes. 3.51am GMT A maiden! Much better from Broad there, got his lengths right and started using that lift from the pitch. Had Warner hopping a couple of times. 3.47am GMT That was looking a tight over from Bresilad, but Clarke drove the fifth ball down the ground with far more style than his last such shot. It wasn't too full, but Clarke manged better than Watson did. 3.43am GMT Huge over, this, from Broad. Warner takes three with another off-side punch. Four leg byes from a deflection through fine leg, then Clarke cracks one down the ground for four. That wasn't his most elegant shot, he had an angled bat and it was a bit of a heave, but it worked. Gets the quick single to cover next ball. Broad has leaked runs today - technically 23 from four overs, but the leg byes came from his poor line.I'm getting of mail in from around the world. Worried Englishmen and women in WA who need the win to stay sane. A shout-out to Martin dodging traffic in Mumbai. The Americans are following the lead of US Cricket Guy to get involved . From Jake in the States: \"I'm an American, married to an Australian, and raising a little Australian-Yank 4 year old boy in DC. Like me, and unlike his aghast Aussie mum (who thought she'd escaped the game upon hieing to the US), he took to cricket like a duck to water, and has been following these Ashes with great interest and enjoyment.\"Well played sir. Also Simon would like to salute his friend Cecilia Lee, \"an American working with some Aussies in Scotland, who finds herself in the unenviable position of siding with England against the Aussie co-workers but also sharing in the general Scottish schadenfreude with everyone else. Top marks though for even giving a toss about the cricket.\" I concur. But was that toss an advantage? 3.35am GMT Bresnan bowling with a short leg to Clarke. Taps a single to midwicket. Warner forces three with a back-foot punch through cover point. Bresnan bowling with some control here. 3.29am GMT Two more low scores for the men who can least afford them, on a brilliant batting pitch. Interesting comments from Mark Taylor (I know!) that Watson is so intent on getting forward and avoiding the lbw that he's not reading the length of the ball. Here and at Brisbane he's driven at balls that just weren't full enough, as well as that pull shot to one that wasn't short enough.First wicket for Broad, Clarke sees out the next couple of balls, without alarm gets off the mark with a quick single to cover. England will be glad to have him out there this early.Updated at 3.33am GMT 3.26am GMT What did I say... Watson gone. Just a length ball, Watson drove too boldly at it, and got a big fat edge to slip. 3.24am GMT Bit of a streaky over for Watson, he needs to settle. Edges four to third man of a big swatted top edge, then scores three in the air past mid off to raise the Australian 50. 3.22am GMT Chris Pitts wants to know, \"Has anyone, or a well trained computer, quantified how much it's worth for one team to win the toss? Like, how many first innings runs?\"On the same theme, Kieran Bettely has pointed out the table below, with this question. (I am not trusted to do anything with numbers - you've heard how the scorecard confuses me - so I'd appreciate your help, dear reader.)\"Now, I can't work out how this would happen.\u00a0Surely if I win the toss and win, then the other team lost the toss and lost. So shouldn't the number match up? I'm sure there's some logical explanation for this...\" 3.16am GMT The first maiden of the day. Anderson beat Warner with a snorter first up, and a quiet over followed. 3.12am GMT It's the eighth over and things are already looking dire for England. Tim Bresnan brought on to replace the expensive Broad, but Watson has seen how Warner's going and wants in. First ball from Bresnan is clanged through cover for another boundary.A fair question from Toyin on this bouncy deck. \"No Finn. No Tremlett. No Rankin. What was all that twaddle about our seven-foot bowlers trundling in to deliver steepling bouncers at afrighted antipodeans?\" So why did they bring the tall ones? Bresnan has skid, Anderson swing, only Broad is a bouncy fellow. 3.07am GMT Bang. First ball of Anderson's next over is over-pitched, and Warner gets that nicely down the ground. Three boundaries in five balls from Warner now, 16 from 13 balls. Drives the next one in sliced fashion through the covers and gets two, wasn't a firm hit, took the outside half of the bat. A sighter for Warner who nails the next cover drive three balls later. 22 from 18 at the over's end. That's a gear change.Updated at 3.11am GMT 3.03am GMT Well, that didn't last long. Warner punches Broad down the ground for that first boundary, then gets one on his hip that he helps round to square leg for another. Bat pad is out now, and deep square leg has been sent out. Chappelli is livid. \"Captain has to stand up to his bowler.\" Warner pinches a single with a defensive shot that rolls out toward cover. 2.59am GMT Warner starting in singles here, collects one more from Anderson, before Watson gets a half glide, half edge along the ground to third man. What odds on two other batsmen hitting a boundary before Warner's first?Updated at 3.04am GMT 2.58am GMT Hahaha oh my, that was humour! There was a car ad on the TV, and the couple are buying a car, and the man says something about room for his golf clubs and the pregnant wife is all like \"You mean the baby gear\" - oh that's funny, do you get it? Because men and women are different, right, and men only ever think about sport, and women only ever think about babies, and men have to fool their tyrannical wives to get to their sport and then they get busted and put on that goofy man-who's-been-caught face, and how witty was that agency's observation about people, right? Right? And basically the human race should end itself right now. 2.53am GMT What a stop by Anderson. Watson utterly creamed a cover drive, but Anderson was full length, off the ground, and stretching one hand right out to snare that ball, then bounced up like compo rubber to aim at the stumps in case they'd set off for another Self-Destructo Single. Hot stuff in the field from your lead paceman. Watto did get two through midwicket before that though. 2.50am GMT A quiet one from Anderson, Watto off the mark with one, then a wide from a high bouncer to Warner.Do you English people have any idea how hard it is to reverse the habit of a lifetime and write 15 for 1? I keep trying to write 1/15 and then realising you'd get over-excited. 2.47am GMT Elizabeth Saxton is telling me that Land of Hope and Glory is actually England's national anthem, not God Save the Queen. I won't dare dispute it, perhaps someone out there knows the full story.In the meantime, some nice words from Greg Pemberton on the anthems: \"I definitely regret the intrusion of jingoism into cricket where the the shared creams/whites of either team emphasised their sharing of cricket as an ethos above tribe, with only caps or ties-as-belts gave subtle hints of origins. At the SCG as a teenager, I much preferred the silent expectation before a ripple of polite applause greeted what Cardus called something like a white waterfall as the players skipped down the stairs of the grandstand.\" 2.44am GMT What an eventful over. The first ball from Broad was short and had Warner fending. But Warner got a single from the second, then Rogers nudged two through midwicket, then played a beautiful on-drive to the midwicket boundary, followed by a leg glance for four, then ran himself out off the last ball. He called yes, Warner responded, then Rogers just paused. Put in the dive, but it was no good. He had 11 from 9 balls on what was his home deck for years. A huge waste of an opportunity. 2.40am GMT Oh, calamity. The third umpire is called for, but it was clear from the live shot. Rogers had taken runs at ease through that over, then tapped the last ball to the on side, hesitated a split second, then set off for one that wasn't there. Anderson had the stumps down in a flash from a shortish mid on. What an absolute waste of a dismissal from Rogers.Updated at 2.42am GMT 2.36am GMT Holy nickels. This pitch is zinging. James Anderson hasn't bowled a bouncer with that much pep in... well, the recorded history of time. Rogers played a lot of state cricket for WA for many years before moving to Victoria, so he's unfazed. Gets one outside off, then the big bouncer over middle stump, then shovels a fuller ball to the gap wide of mid on for a scurried single. Warner's also off from his first ball with a leg glance, misdirect there from Jimmy. 2.32am GMT Chris Roget's Thesaurus facing Hams Handerson. Did I read that right? 2.29am GMT ... to make themselves known. There's no need, they are. Plenty of excellent correspondence so far about the West. From Dan Osborn, \"It's interesting to note that England's anxieties may not be confined to the field of play whilst in Perth. Local custom dictates that residents and visitors alike must make a suitable offering to the giant squid which lurks in the mighty Swan River.\"From Tom Johnstone: \"I'm from Perth and remember waking to the hot easterly with a day of (distinctly medium pace) bowling ahead. My only comment to the English: don't let the flies bother you - they're just patting you on the back for trying your best.\"And from Nick, \"As an Englishman, I'll make the blanket assumption the State of Western Australia is rubbish. Too hot, too far away, too bouncy a Walkabout. That's post-colonialism: making stuff up is all we have left now. Enjoy your lovely country/Ashes win.\" 2.26am GMT Does anyone think it's a bit unnecessary having all this national anthem business? I know we've got two national teams here, but we all know where they're from. 2.25am GMT At least for Dom the Pom in Geelong (his title, not mine).Cometh the hour, cometh the man. Today, Friday the 13th, will be Cook's day.**Conditions apply: see caveats** for details**Assuming he wins the toss, bats first, Ryan Harris declared unfit and Mitchell Johnson gets a nasty attack of migraine / nerves / gastro / drug induced psychosis / leprosy / beard rash******delete as appropriate 2.21am GMT Our cricketing spiritual leader, Mike Selvey, has been asking for OBO readers' help. His wife Sarah is doing good work trying to raise money for research into an extremely rare cancer, Cholangiocarcinoma. Sarah's brother David died of this extremely quickly earlier this year, and there's very little research into the disease.Sarah is raising money through a JustGiving page, by doing a charity run. She's had great support from OBO readers, but it would be great to get her over the 2000-pound mark this match. If you can help out, please head over to http://www.justgiving.com/Sarah-Selvey1 and leave a message for Sarah and the rest of David's family. 2.15am GMT There's some extremely poignant symphonic music playing over a Clarke montage. A brave spaceship pilot will sacrifice himself to save his planet by flying straight into the invading fleet leader's reactor core any minute now... any minute.I wonder what tunes Cook will get. Something ordered and Teutonic. 2.10am GMT How unlikely is it that two opposing captains would manage to play their 100th Tests matches at the same time. That's some Illuminati business happening right there, I can tell you. It's also a bit mean, because one of them is going to have to have a miserable time while the other is happy. Would you rather lose your milestone Test against your full-strength arch-enemy, or win it against an understrength West Indies side completely out of their depth in three days? 2.05am GMT We've got minimal changes on the team front. The same XI for Australia - how long since they played the seam team three matches in a row. Only one change for England - Bresnan coming back in for Monty. Should they have kept Swann on here? Should they have given old Lanky Rankin a run on this pitch? Should I phrase everything as a rhetorical question? 2.00am GMT Nothing going England's way here. Michael Clarke even does a little dance as he tries to step the wrong way and falls over. Australia are, you will be shocked to know, going to bat. 1.58am GMT Good to see the coverage off to a great start, with a video report on Michael Vaughan playing a knockabout football match. It must be extremely validating to have every mundane facet of your life captured by camera crews for distribution to a national and international audience. Now if only we could a few banter-filled anecdotes about commentators' playing days! 1.54am GMT The start. It's easy, hey? No one is winning, no one is losing, no one has gobbed off at anyone yet. Geoff Lemon joining you from the far Antipodes for this civilised early encounter. It is blazing hot here in Perth, and not yet 10am, and that's the real 10am because they hold no truck with this daylight savings rubbish here in the West. So it's going to be a tough old day.Fire off an email as you see fit on the state of play, the state of commentary, or the State of Western Australia. 1.00am GMT Geoff's at the Waca and will be here shortly. In the meantime, here are a few things to keep you occupied \u2026Alastair Cook has described the third Test as \"do or die\" for England, though the captain's cause was immediately hindered when Monty Panesar suffered an injury scare to further complicate England's delicate selection process.Panesar, who made his first international appearance in almost nine months in the second Test defeat at Adelaide, was unable to bowl in the team's penultimate practice session at the Waca because of a sore side. He did some fitness and fielding drills on the outfield and England say he is still available but they will not want to take any chances given the forecast temperatures of up to 39C over the weekend.Continue reading here \u2026Back in 2001 I was a novice reporter working for Australia's Channel Seven in Sydney when I interviewed a relatively unknown 19-year-old left-arm fast bowler called Mitchell Johnson.I wanted to write a profile for its sports website after seeing some comments online from the legendary Dennis Lillee about a young fast bowler he was calling a \"once-in-a-lifetime prospect\". Two years earlier, so the story goes, Lillee had phoned his old team-mate Rod Marsh and told him to \"get this kid into the [Australian Cricket] Academy\" after seeing him bowl only three balls.Continue reading here \u2026Updated at 6.01am GMT", "tags": ["Ashes 2013-14", "Australia cricket team", "England cricket team", "The Ashes", "Cricket", "Over by over reports", "Australia sport"], "title": "Ashes: Australia v England \u2013 as it happened | Geoff Lemon and Simon Burnton"},{"date": "2013-12-17T06:35:29Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The government has insisted it has no intention of introducing nuclear power to Australia after releasing a paper that states the technology continues to be an option for \u201cfuture reliable energy\u201d.An issues paper released by the Department of Industry, which will inform an upcoming energy white paper, states that the need for low-carbon fuels means that nuclear is an option that can be \u201creadily dispatched into the market\u201d.The UK, the paper notes, has announced plans for new nuclear power generation, although Germany is looking to shut down its nuclear capacity in the wake of the Fukushima disaster in Japan.\u201cA growing area of global interest is in the use of small modular reactors, which have the potential to reduce the cost uncertainties and construction timeframes associated with current generation reactor designs,\u201d the paper states. \u201cThese reactors could be factory built, highly standardised and even used in locations without advanced infrastructure.\u201cThe smaller size of the reactors may allow for more flexible deployment, making nuclear electricity available to isolated areas or countries with small or distributed electricity grid systems that cannot support conventional large-scale nuclear power.\u201dThe paper adds that while the government recognises that the cost of renewable energy, such as wind and solar, will continue to fall, it is seeking comments on how \u201cthe uptake of high-efficiency, low-emissions intensity electricity generation can be progressed\u201d.While nuclear power isn\u2019t as carbon intensive as coal, there has been longstanding bipartisan opposition to developing the energy source in Australia. The Howard government banned domestic nuclear energy, despite Australia having some of the largest uranium deposits in the world.A spokeswoman for the industry minister, Ian Macfarlane, told Guardian Australia the government\u2019s position was unchanged despite the paper\u2019s seemingly warm words for nuclear.\u201cThe government\u2019s energy white paper process will be comprehensive. However, the Coalition has no plans to pursue nuclear energy,\u201d she said.\u201cNuclear energy won\u2019t become part of Australia\u2019s energy mix without bipartisan and community support.\u201dThe risks of the processes involved in nuclear energy have been highlighted recently by the spill at the Ranger uranium mine in Kakadu. The incident, anti-nuclear activists claim, is a stark reminder of why Australia should remain nuclear-free.\u201cI think the Coalition is trying to keep the door open to the option of nuclear, although it can see politically and economically it doesn\u2019t add up,\u201d said Dave Sweeney, nuclear free campaigner at the Australian Conservation Foundation.\u201cThere\u2019s no doubt there are people within the Coalition who would want to embrace nuclear. We are aware of that and that sort of ideology concerns us, so we aren\u2019t complacent. But it\u2019s quite unthinkable that any private company would want to fund nuclear in Australia due to the huge start-up cost.\u201cThe government doesn\u2019t want to critique nuclear because it raises the question \u2018why then are we digging it up and having spills in the Kakadu?\u2019. But there are huge political and economic hurdles to bringing in nuclear power. The numbers just don\u2019t stack up, in dollars or votes.\u201d", "tags": ["Nuclear power", "Australia news", "Energy", "Coalition"], "title": "Government rules out nuclear power for Australia"},{"date": "2014-02-25T22:13:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "We\u2019ve all done it. We walk down the street and see a homeless guy asking for some small change and we stride straight past avoiding his eye. Or we read about children in Syria being maimed and tortured and quickly flick over the page without a second of thought, continuing to munch on our toast.These kinds of empathy failures are pretty normal. Although the neuroscientists now tell us that 98% of people have the ability to empathise, the reality is that we lead busy, stressful lives, and often feel we don\u2019t have the time or energy to step into other people\u2019s shoes, look at the world from their perspective \u2013 and give them some support. In other words, we fail to bring our neural circuitry to life, so our empathic potential lies dormant.But something more serious is going on: Australia, the lucky country, is losing its empathy. A recent report based on a national survey by the Scanlon Foundation highlights some powerful statistics:What are figures like these telling us? Without anyone really noticing, communities are fracturing and social cohesion being eroded. More and more people are caught up in a culture of hyper-individualism where the question \u201cwhat\u2019s in it for me?\u201d dominates their minds. They are turning their backs on socially marginalised groups such as asylum seekers and becoming less willing to trust others, or listen to the views of people whose beliefs differ from their own \u2013 whether it\u2019s on issues such as climate change or private schools. The big picture is clear: there\u2019s a growing empathy deficit that is creating new levels of social division.In some ways these attitudes are surprising. You might expect them in a country that is suffering chronic economic recession, where people scapegoat immigrants and blame them for their economic woes. But Australia hardly qualifies on these grounds, having done better than most countries to survive the repercussions of the global financial meltdown in 2008. It\u2019s also a little strange for a nation that prides itself on its multiculturalism (of which I am a product, with a mixed heritage including Polish, Croatian, Romanian and Scottish). In fact, 84% of respondents in the Scanlon study said they thought multiculturalism had been good for the country, and 70% believed it benefited the nation economically.On the other hand, it\u2019s clear the prevalent political culture is hardly conducive to creating empathy, even if the past decade has seen growing recognition of the perspectives and rights of Indigenous Australians. Just think how much stereotyping remains a staple of the contemporary political scene. Politicians from across the spectrum frequently refer to asylum seekers as \u201cillegals\u201d \u2013 Tony Abbott\u2019s government decreed that they should be described as such in all official correspondence \u2013 despite the Refugee Council of Australia and the United Nations pointing out that it is an inaccurate term since there is nothing illegal about seeking asylum.\u201cIf you wanted to disenfranchise refugees, and leave the public thinking they have no rights, then call them \u2018illegal\u2019 over and over again,\u201d the former Paul Keating speechwriter Don Watson told me. Politicians, he says, do everything they can to \u201ckeep any kind of empathy at bay\u201d, finding language that \u201cdulls the instinct to ask \u2018What if that were me and my children in one of those boats, or in one of those detention centres?\u2019\u201d Thomas Keneally \u2013 author of the empathic bestseller Schindler\u2019s Ark \u2013 has made similar remarks, commenting on the \u201cracial hysteria\u201d politicians have whipped up against asylum seekers.It is this kind of stereotyping, where we fail to see the real individuals behind the labels we impose on them, that is at the root of the empathy crisis. This empathy decline is not, however, Australia\u2019s alone. Across the western world there is evidence of a growing empathy deficit. A study at the University of Michigan revealed empathy levels in the United States have dropped 48% over the past 40 years, with the steepest fall happening over the last decade. This means that fewer and fewer people are making the effort to extend their moral concern towards strangers, or to take into account the feelings and perspectives of others. In the UK, the empathy deficit is reflected in a chronic decline of social trust. In 1959 60% of people thought most other people could be trusted. That figure has now halved. A creeping, self-centred individualism has become dominant in public culture.It all sounds a bit depressing. But there\u2019s good news. There is a quiet revolution of empathic thinking and social action going on around the globe. With a little imagination, Australians could learn to harness the power of empathy to shift the contours of society. So what does this empathy revolution look like?Intriguingly, empathy is a more popular concept today than at any moment in its history. It\u2019s on the lips of everyone from the Dalai Lama to Barack Obama, from business gurus to happiness experts. Internet searches for the word \u201cempathy\u201d have more than doubled in frequency in the past ten years.A major reason for this surge of interest is because of extraordinary new insights into the science of empathy. For more than three centuries we\u2019ve been fed a dangerous piece of propaganda, which is that human beings are essentially selfish, individualistic creatures. But the scientific consensus has shifted in the last decade. We are also Homo empathicus: alongside our selfish inner drives is a more empathic, co-operative self.Neuroscientists have discovered that almost all of us (exceptions include psychopaths) have a ten-section \u201cempathy-circuit\u201d wired into our brains. Damage part of it and you may be unable to recognise fear or other emotions on someone\u2019s face. Evolutionary biologists have shown this co-operative, empathic self is a trait we share with our primate cousins, such as the hippie-like bonobo chimp. And psychologists have demonstrated that the empathic ability to step into another\u2019s shoes and appreciate that their viewpoint may differ from our own develops in most children by the age of about two.The problem is that we\u2019re still not very skilled at tapping into our full empathic potential. But luckily empathy can be learned, like learning to ride a bike or drive a car. The best place to start is at school. I believe every child should have the right to take part in programmes such as Roots of Empathy, the world\u2019s most successful empathy teaching initiative. Having started in Canada, it has now spread to countries such as New Zealand and Germany, and more than half a million children have done it. How does it work? The teacher is a baby. True. A class of kids adopts a baby for the year, who visits every few weeks with a parent and an instructor from the programme. The children sit around the baby and discuss things such as: why\u2019s the baby crying? Why is the baby laughing? What might she be feeling? This effort to step into the baby\u2019s shoes is then extended outwards. What\u2019s it like to be bullied in the playground, or to be made fun of if you\u2019re in a wheelchair? The results are remarkable. A study in Scotland showed the programme boosted co-operative behaviour in 55% of pupils, decreased bullying and increased academic attainment. Roots of Empathy has been piloted in Western Australia. It\u2019s now time to roll it out across the nation\u2019s classrooms.But we can\u2019t wait 20 years for a new generation of empathic citizens to emerge. We also need to work on ourselves. On a personal level, try having a conversation with a stranger at least once a week. Get beyond superficial chatter and talk about the stuff that really matters in life \u2013 love, family, death or politics. Conversations with strangers are one of the best ways to overcome our prejudices and assumptions about others, and can cure us of making snap stereotyped judgements about people based on appearance or accent. On the political level, we need to generate these kinds of conversations on a mass scale. One inspiring organisation that does this is the Parents Circle, which creates grassroots dialogues between Israelis and Palestinians. One of their most powerful projects was the Hello Peace phone line. Any Israeli citizen could call a free phone number and talk to a Palestinian stranger for up to half an hour, and Palestinians could similarly call Israelis. In its first five years of operation, more than a million calls were made.Just imagine if there were similar phone lines (or online video dialogue projects) across Australia, which created conversations between climate change activists and climate change sceptics, between anti-immigrant advocates and new immigrants themselves, between bombastic politicians and their constituents who feel voiceless; between rich and poor, young and old. It would be the beginning of an empathy revolution. Not an old-fashioned revolution of new laws or policies, but something much more radical: a revolution of human relationships.Roman Krznaric\u2019s new book is Empathy: A Handbook for Revolution. ", "tags": ["Life and style", "Australia news", "Philosophy", "Australian politics", "Books"], "title": "Is Australia losing its empathy?"},{"date": "2014-02-25T22:13:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "We\u2019ve all done it. We walk down the street and see a homeless guy asking for some small change and we stride straight past avoiding his eye. Or we read about children in Syria being maimed and tortured and quickly flick over the page without a second of thought, continuing to munch on our toast.These kinds of empathy failures are pretty normal. Although the neuroscientists now tell us that 98% of people have the ability to empathise, the reality is that we lead busy, stressful lives, and often feel we don\u2019t have the time or energy to step into other people\u2019s shoes, look at the world from their perspective \u2013 and give them some support. In other words, we fail to bring our neural circuitry to life, so our empathic potential lies dormant.But something more serious is going on: Australia, the lucky country, is losing its empathy. A recent report based on a national survey by the Scanlon Foundation highlights some powerful statistics:What are figures like these telling us? Without anyone really noticing, communities are fracturing and social cohesion being eroded. More and more people are caught up in a culture of hyper-individualism where the question \u201cwhat\u2019s in it for me?\u201d dominates their minds. They are turning their backs on socially marginalised groups such as asylum seekers and becoming less willing to trust others, or listen to the views of people whose beliefs differ from their own \u2013 whether it\u2019s on issues such as climate change or private schools. The big picture is clear: there\u2019s a growing empathy deficit that is creating new levels of social division.In some ways these attitudes are surprising. You might expect them in a country that is suffering chronic economic recession, where people scapegoat immigrants and blame them for their economic woes. But Australia hardly qualifies on these grounds, having done better than most countries to survive the repercussions of the global financial meltdown in 2008. It\u2019s also a little strange for a nation that prides itself on its multiculturalism (of which I am a product, with a mixed heritage including Polish, Croatian, Romanian and Scottish). In fact, 84% of respondents in the Scanlon study said they thought multiculturalism had been good for the country, and 70% believed it benefited the nation economically.On the other hand, it\u2019s clear the prevalent political culture is hardly conducive to creating empathy, even if the past decade has seen growing recognition of the perspectives and rights of Indigenous Australians. Just think how much stereotyping remains a staple of the contemporary political scene. Politicians from across the spectrum frequently refer to asylum seekers as \u201cillegals\u201d \u2013 Tony Abbott\u2019s government decreed that they should be described as such in all official correspondence \u2013 despite the Refugee Council of Australia and the United Nations pointing out that it is an inaccurate term since there is nothing illegal about seeking asylum.\u201cIf you wanted to disenfranchise refugees, and leave the public thinking they have no rights, then call them \u2018illegal\u2019 over and over again,\u201d the former Paul Keating speechwriter Don Watson told me. Politicians, he says, do everything they can to \u201ckeep any kind of empathy at bay\u201d, finding language that \u201cdulls the instinct to ask \u2018What if that were me and my children in one of those boats, or in one of those detention centres?\u2019\u201d Thomas Keneally \u2013 author of the empathic bestseller Schindler\u2019s Ark \u2013 has made similar remarks, commenting on the \u201cracial hysteria\u201d politicians have whipped up against asylum seekers.It is this kind of stereotyping, where we fail to see the real individuals behind the labels we impose on them, that is at the root of the empathy crisis. This empathy decline is not, however, Australia\u2019s alone. Across the western world there is evidence of a growing empathy deficit. A study at the University of Michigan revealed empathy levels in the United States have dropped 48% over the past 40 years, with the steepest fall happening over the last decade. This means that fewer and fewer people are making the effort to extend their moral concern towards strangers, or to take into account the feelings and perspectives of others. In the UK, the empathy deficit is reflected in a chronic decline of social trust. In 1959 60% of people thought most other people could be trusted. That figure has now halved. A creeping, self-centred individualism has become dominant in public culture.It all sounds a bit depressing. But there\u2019s good news. There is a quiet revolution of empathic thinking and social action going on around the globe. With a little imagination, Australians could learn to harness the power of empathy to shift the contours of society. So what does this empathy revolution look like?Intriguingly, empathy is a more popular concept today than at any moment in its history. It\u2019s on the lips of everyone from the Dalai Lama to Barack Obama, from business gurus to happiness experts. Internet searches for the word \u201cempathy\u201d have more than doubled in frequency in the past ten years.A major reason for this surge of interest is because of extraordinary new insights into the science of empathy. For more than three centuries we\u2019ve been fed a dangerous piece of propaganda, which is that human beings are essentially selfish, individualistic creatures. But the scientific consensus has shifted in the last decade. We are also Homo empathicus: alongside our selfish inner drives is a more empathic, co-operative self.Neuroscientists have discovered that almost all of us (exceptions include psychopaths) have a ten-section \u201cempathy-circuit\u201d wired into our brains. Damage part of it and you may be unable to recognise fear or other emotions on someone\u2019s face. Evolutionary biologists have shown this co-operative, empathic self is a trait we share with our primate cousins, such as the hippie-like bonobo chimp. And psychologists have demonstrated that the empathic ability to step into another\u2019s shoes and appreciate that their viewpoint may differ from our own develops in most children by the age of about two.The problem is that we\u2019re still not very skilled at tapping into our full empathic potential. But luckily empathy can be learned, like learning to ride a bike or drive a car. The best place to start is at school. I believe every child should have the right to take part in programmes such as Roots of Empathy, the world\u2019s most successful empathy teaching initiative. Having started in Canada, it has now spread to countries such as New Zealand and Germany, and more than half a million children have done it. How does it work? The teacher is a baby. True. A class of kids adopts a baby for the year, who visits every few weeks with a parent and an instructor from the programme. The children sit around the baby and discuss things such as: why\u2019s the baby crying? Why is the baby laughing? What might she be feeling? This effort to step into the baby\u2019s shoes is then extended outwards. What\u2019s it like to be bullied in the playground, or to be made fun of if you\u2019re in a wheelchair? The results are remarkable. A study in Scotland showed the programme boosted co-operative behaviour in 55% of pupils, decreased bullying and increased academic attainment. Roots of Empathy has been piloted in Western Australia. It\u2019s now time to roll it out across the nation\u2019s classrooms.But we can\u2019t wait 20 years for a new generation of empathic citizens to emerge. We also need to work on ourselves. On a personal level, try having a conversation with a stranger at least once a week. Get beyond superficial chatter and talk about the stuff that really matters in life \u2013 love, family, death or politics. Conversations with strangers are one of the best ways to overcome our prejudices and assumptions about others, and can cure us of making snap stereotyped judgements about people based on appearance or accent. On the political level, we need to generate these kinds of conversations on a mass scale. One inspiring organisation that does this is the Parents Circle, which creates grassroots dialogues between Israelis and Palestinians. One of their most powerful projects was the Hello Peace phone line. Any Israeli citizen could call a free phone number and talk to a Palestinian stranger for up to half an hour, and Palestinians could similarly call Israelis. In its first five years of operation, more than a million calls were made.Just imagine if there were similar phone lines (or online video dialogue projects) across Australia, which created conversations between climate change activists and climate change sceptics, between anti-immigrant advocates and new immigrants themselves, between bombastic politicians and their constituents who feel voiceless; between rich and poor, young and old. It would be the beginning of an empathy revolution. Not an old-fashioned revolution of new laws or policies, but something much more radical: a revolution of human relationships.Roman Krznaric\u2019s new book is Empathy: A Handbook for Revolution. ", "tags": ["Life and style", "Australia news", "Philosophy", "Australian politics", "Books"], "title": "Is Australia losing its empathy?"},{"date": "2014-01-30T01:27:19Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Another signal has emerged that the Abbott government intends to strip the ABC of its international broadcasting service \u2013 the Australia Network \u2013 in a significant concession to Rupert Murdoch and to conservative commentators critical of public broadcasting.The foreign affairs minister, Julie Bishop, has been preparing the public ground since opposition for the ABC to lose its Australia Network regional broadcasting service, which it was awarded by the previous Labor government after a bitterly contested process.In January Bishop criticised the quality of the programming on the Australia Network, and argued it was not serving Australia\u2019s regional interests as \u201ca tool of public diplomacy\u201d.The Australian newspaper reported on Thursday that the service was likely to be scrapped in the May budget as a savings measure. The commission of audit established by the government will also run the ruler over other ABC services.The Sky News network lost out to the ABC in the Australia Network tender process carried out under the previous Labor government. The multimillion-dollar tender was botched due to sharp divisions within Labor over whether the ABC or Sky should emerge with the regional service.Sky, a broadcaster part owned by BSkyB \u2013 a British company controlled by 21st Century Fox, which is a sister company to Murdoch\u2019s Australian publishing arm, News Corp \u2013 has made no secret of its fury about that process, and has lobbied the Coalition to have the ABC\u2019s contract dumped.In its aborted media reform package in early 2013, Labor did manage to legislate a provision where only the ABC or its associated companies could provide \u201ccommonwealth funded international broadcasting services\u201d. It was a means of trying to lock in the ABC\u2019s position regarding the Australian Network after any change of government.The reform suggests the Coalition would need further legislation if it wanted not to bank the saving, but clear the field for a commercial broadcaster. Whether the ABC would need to be compensated for the dumped contract is unclear.The acting opposition leader, Tanya Plibersek, said she did not watch a lot of the Australia Network because she lived in Australia, but believed the channel was providing \u201ca very valuable service\u201d in projecting Australian values to the region.She said the government was \"proposing to cut almost a quarter of a billion dollars\" through the axing of the Australia Network contract, despite signalling before the election that it would not reduce funding to the ABC.Asked whether the Australia Network should reflect support for Australia to achieve the aim of soft diplomacy, Plibersek said freedom of speech was a worthy value to promote.\u201cI'm very happy for the world to see that in Australia you can stand up, you can criticise the government, the government can respond and everybody goes home that night safe and sound,\u201d she said.The Greens leader, Christine Milne, said the Australia Network did an \"outstanding job\" and it would be \"a very bad mistake\" for Abbott to abandon the service.In addition to bruised feelings over the Australia Network process, the Murdoch-owned News Corp is also campaigning to have the ABC pushed out of digital news services. The ABC\u2019s online content is offered free to readers and viewers, and News Corp is one of several publishers arguing the national broadcaster\u2019s ongoing digital expansion threatens their business.News Corp faces further commercial pressure in 2014. The tabloids will face competition in Australia for the first time in many years with the entry of the British-owned Daily Mail \u2013 one of the most successful digital news sites in the world.The prime minister, Tony Abbott, launched a strong public criticism of the ABC on Wednesday during a radio appearance on 2GB in Sydney.Abbott took issue with the ABC's reporting of claims by asylum seekers of mistreatment at the hands of the Australian navy. The prime minister suggested the national broadcaster needed to be more patriotic, and should be inclined to give the navy the benefit of the doubt.The ABC has taken steps to check the accuracy of the claims made by the asylum seekers, and an email from an ABC researcher made its way into the public domain indicating that some editorial executives doubted the allegations were accurate.This email has given impetus to the broadcaster\u2019s critics who contend the story should not have been broadcast. A spokeswoman for the national broadcaster said: \u201cIn a climate where official information about asylum seeker operations is scarce and hard to come by, the ABC makes no apologies for seeking as much information as it can from as many sources as it can to either verify or disprove the allegations at the centre of the story.\u201dAbbott also reaffirmed his concerns about the ABC's collaboration with Guardian Australia on the story that revealed Australian spy agencies\u2019 past efforts to target the phones of the Indonesian president, his wife and inner circle. Those disclosures were based on documents provided by the former US intelligence contractor Edward Snowden.Abbott\u2019s intervention was amplified in Sydney\u2019s Daily Telegraph newspaper on Thursday with strong page one treatment.The paper quoted Abbott\u2019s key business adviser, and former ABC chairman Maurice Newman as saying: \u201cIn relation to the navy, [the ABC has] given credence to the idea that the navy may well have tortured people \u2026 99% of Australians would think that's highly unlikely. I think [the allegations] are inimical to Australia's best interests.\u201cIt casts doubt on Australia's reputation and I think it's regrettable.\u201dThe communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, however, launched a defence of the ABC. He told Fairfax Media that politicians may have issues with ABC content, but could not tell media outlets what to write.\u201cWhat's the alternative \u2026 the editor-in-chief [of the ABC] becomes the prime minister?\u201d Turnbull said. \u201cPoliticians, whether prime ministers or communications ministers, will often be unhappy with the ABC \u2026 but you can't tell them what to write.'\u201d- with Daniel Hurst", "tags": ["Australian Broadcasting Corporation", "Rupert Murdoch", "Australia news", "Australian politics", "Media", "Asia Pacific", "Julie Bishop", "Tony Abbott", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Coalition", "Labor party", "Indonesia", "Edward Snowden", "Surveillance"], "title": "ABC may lose Australia Network"},{"date": "2014-02-25T22:13:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "We\u2019ve all done it. We walk down the street and see a homeless guy asking for some small change and we stride straight past avoiding his eye. Or we read about children in Syria being maimed and tortured and quickly flick over the page without a second of thought, continuing to munch on our toast.These kinds of empathy failures are pretty normal. Although the neuroscientists now tell us that 98% of people have the ability to empathise, the reality is that we lead busy, stressful lives, and often feel we don\u2019t have the time or energy to step into other people\u2019s shoes, look at the world from their perspective \u2013 and give them some support. In other words, we fail to bring our neural circuitry to life, so our empathic potential lies dormant.But something more serious is going on: Australia, the lucky country, is losing its empathy. A recent report based on a national survey by the Scanlon Foundation highlights some powerful statistics:What are figures like these telling us? Without anyone really noticing, communities are fracturing and social cohesion being eroded. More and more people are caught up in a culture of hyper-individualism where the question \u201cwhat\u2019s in it for me?\u201d dominates their minds. They are turning their backs on socially marginalised groups such as asylum seekers and becoming less willing to trust others, or listen to the views of people whose beliefs differ from their own \u2013 whether it\u2019s on issues such as climate change or private schools. The big picture is clear: there\u2019s a growing empathy deficit that is creating new levels of social division.In some ways these attitudes are surprising. You might expect them in a country that is suffering chronic economic recession, where people scapegoat immigrants and blame them for their economic woes. But Australia hardly qualifies on these grounds, having done better than most countries to survive the repercussions of the global financial meltdown in 2008. It\u2019s also a little strange for a nation that prides itself on its multiculturalism (of which I am a product, with a mixed heritage including Polish, Croatian, Romanian and Scottish). In fact, 84% of respondents in the Scanlon study said they thought multiculturalism had been good for the country, and 70% believed it benefited the nation economically.On the other hand, it\u2019s clear the prevalent political culture is hardly conducive to creating empathy, even if the past decade has seen growing recognition of the perspectives and rights of Indigenous Australians. Just think how much stereotyping remains a staple of the contemporary political scene. Politicians from across the spectrum frequently refer to asylum seekers as \u201cillegals\u201d \u2013 Tony Abbott\u2019s government decreed that they should be described as such in all official correspondence \u2013 despite the Refugee Council of Australia and the United Nations pointing out that it is an inaccurate term since there is nothing illegal about seeking asylum.\u201cIf you wanted to disenfranchise refugees, and leave the public thinking they have no rights, then call them \u2018illegal\u2019 over and over again,\u201d the former Paul Keating speechwriter Don Watson told me. Politicians, he says, do everything they can to \u201ckeep any kind of empathy at bay\u201d, finding language that \u201cdulls the instinct to ask \u2018What if that were me and my children in one of those boats, or in one of those detention centres?\u2019\u201d Thomas Keneally \u2013 author of the empathic bestseller Schindler\u2019s Ark \u2013 has made similar remarks, commenting on the \u201cracial hysteria\u201d politicians have whipped up against asylum seekers.It is this kind of stereotyping, where we fail to see the real individuals behind the labels we impose on them, that is at the root of the empathy crisis. This empathy decline is not, however, Australia\u2019s alone. Across the western world there is evidence of a growing empathy deficit. A study at the University of Michigan revealed empathy levels in the United States have dropped 48% over the past 40 years, with the steepest fall happening over the last decade. This means that fewer and fewer people are making the effort to extend their moral concern towards strangers, or to take into account the feelings and perspectives of others. In the UK, the empathy deficit is reflected in a chronic decline of social trust. In 1959 60% of people thought most other people could be trusted. That figure has now halved. A creeping, self-centred individualism has become dominant in public culture.It all sounds a bit depressing. But there\u2019s good news. There is a quiet revolution of empathic thinking and social action going on around the globe. With a little imagination, Australians could learn to harness the power of empathy to shift the contours of society. So what does this empathy revolution look like?Intriguingly, empathy is a more popular concept today than at any moment in its history. It\u2019s on the lips of everyone from the Dalai Lama to Barack Obama, from business gurus to happiness experts. Internet searches for the word \u201cempathy\u201d have more than doubled in frequency in the past ten years.A major reason for this surge of interest is because of extraordinary new insights into the science of empathy. For more than three centuries we\u2019ve been fed a dangerous piece of propaganda, which is that human beings are essentially selfish, individualistic creatures. But the scientific consensus has shifted in the last decade. We are also Homo empathicus: alongside our selfish inner drives is a more empathic, co-operative self.Neuroscientists have discovered that almost all of us (exceptions include psychopaths) have a ten-section \u201cempathy-circuit\u201d wired into our brains. Damage part of it and you may be unable to recognise fear or other emotions on someone\u2019s face. Evolutionary biologists have shown this co-operative, empathic self is a trait we share with our primate cousins, such as the hippie-like bonobo chimp. And psychologists have demonstrated that the empathic ability to step into another\u2019s shoes and appreciate that their viewpoint may differ from our own develops in most children by the age of about two.The problem is that we\u2019re still not very skilled at tapping into our full empathic potential. But luckily empathy can be learned, like learning to ride a bike or drive a car. The best place to start is at school. I believe every child should have the right to take part in programmes such as Roots of Empathy, the world\u2019s most successful empathy teaching initiative. Having started in Canada, it has now spread to countries such as New Zealand and Germany, and more than half a million children have done it. How does it work? The teacher is a baby. True. A class of kids adopts a baby for the year, who visits every few weeks with a parent and an instructor from the programme. The children sit around the baby and discuss things such as: why\u2019s the baby crying? Why is the baby laughing? What might she be feeling? This effort to step into the baby\u2019s shoes is then extended outwards. What\u2019s it like to be bullied in the playground, or to be made fun of if you\u2019re in a wheelchair? The results are remarkable. A study in Scotland showed the programme boosted co-operative behaviour in 55% of pupils, decreased bullying and increased academic attainment. Roots of Empathy has been piloted in Western Australia. It\u2019s now time to roll it out across the nation\u2019s classrooms.But we can\u2019t wait 20 years for a new generation of empathic citizens to emerge. We also need to work on ourselves. On a personal level, try having a conversation with a stranger at least once a week. Get beyond superficial chatter and talk about the stuff that really matters in life \u2013 love, family, death or politics. Conversations with strangers are one of the best ways to overcome our prejudices and assumptions about others, and can cure us of making snap stereotyped judgements about people based on appearance or accent. On the political level, we need to generate these kinds of conversations on a mass scale. One inspiring organisation that does this is the Parents Circle, which creates grassroots dialogues between Israelis and Palestinians. One of their most powerful projects was the Hello Peace phone line. Any Israeli citizen could call a free phone number and talk to a Palestinian stranger for up to half an hour, and Palestinians could similarly call Israelis. In its first five years of operation, more than a million calls were made.Just imagine if there were similar phone lines (or online video dialogue projects) across Australia, which created conversations between climate change activists and climate change sceptics, between anti-immigrant advocates and new immigrants themselves, between bombastic politicians and their constituents who feel voiceless; between rich and poor, young and old. It would be the beginning of an empathy revolution. Not an old-fashioned revolution of new laws or policies, but something much more radical: a revolution of human relationships.Roman Krznaric\u2019s new book is Empathy: A Handbook for Revolution. ", "tags": ["Life and style", "Australia news", "Philosophy", "Australian politics", "Books"], "title": "Is Australia losing its empathy?"},{"date": "2014-01-30T01:27:19Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Another signal has emerged that the Abbott government intends to strip the ABC of its international broadcasting service \u2013 the Australia Network \u2013 in a significant concession to Rupert Murdoch and to conservative commentators critical of public broadcasting.The foreign affairs minister, Julie Bishop, has been preparing the public ground since opposition for the ABC to lose its Australia Network regional broadcasting service, which it was awarded by the previous Labor government after a bitterly contested process.In January Bishop criticised the quality of the programming on the Australia Network, and argued it was not serving Australia\u2019s regional interests as \u201ca tool of public diplomacy\u201d.The Australian newspaper reported on Thursday that the service was likely to be scrapped in the May budget as a savings measure. The commission of audit established by the government will also run the ruler over other ABC services.The Sky News network lost out to the ABC in the Australia Network tender process carried out under the previous Labor government. The multimillion-dollar tender was botched due to sharp divisions within Labor over whether the ABC or Sky should emerge with the regional service.Sky, a broadcaster part owned by BSkyB \u2013 a British company controlled by 21st Century Fox, which is a sister company to Murdoch\u2019s Australian publishing arm, News Corp \u2013 has made no secret of its fury about that process, and has lobbied the Coalition to have the ABC\u2019s contract dumped.In its aborted media reform package in early 2013, Labor did manage to legislate a provision where only the ABC or its associated companies could provide \u201ccommonwealth funded international broadcasting services\u201d. It was a means of trying to lock in the ABC\u2019s position regarding the Australian Network after any change of government.The reform suggests the Coalition would need further legislation if it wanted not to bank the saving, but clear the field for a commercial broadcaster. Whether the ABC would need to be compensated for the dumped contract is unclear.The acting opposition leader, Tanya Plibersek, said she did not watch a lot of the Australia Network because she lived in Australia, but believed the channel was providing \u201ca very valuable service\u201d in projecting Australian values to the region.She said the government was \"proposing to cut almost a quarter of a billion dollars\" through the axing of the Australia Network contract, despite signalling before the election that it would not reduce funding to the ABC.Asked whether the Australia Network should reflect support for Australia to achieve the aim of soft diplomacy, Plibersek said freedom of speech was a worthy value to promote.\u201cI'm very happy for the world to see that in Australia you can stand up, you can criticise the government, the government can respond and everybody goes home that night safe and sound,\u201d she said.The Greens leader, Christine Milne, said the Australia Network did an \"outstanding job\" and it would be \"a very bad mistake\" for Abbott to abandon the service.In addition to bruised feelings over the Australia Network process, the Murdoch-owned News Corp is also campaigning to have the ABC pushed out of digital news services. The ABC\u2019s online content is offered free to readers and viewers, and News Corp is one of several publishers arguing the national broadcaster\u2019s ongoing digital expansion threatens their business.News Corp faces further commercial pressure in 2014. The tabloids will face competition in Australia for the first time in many years with the entry of the British-owned Daily Mail \u2013 one of the most successful digital news sites in the world.The prime minister, Tony Abbott, launched a strong public criticism of the ABC on Wednesday during a radio appearance on 2GB in Sydney.Abbott took issue with the ABC's reporting of claims by asylum seekers of mistreatment at the hands of the Australian navy. The prime minister suggested the national broadcaster needed to be more patriotic, and should be inclined to give the navy the benefit of the doubt.The ABC has taken steps to check the accuracy of the claims made by the asylum seekers, and an email from an ABC researcher made its way into the public domain indicating that some editorial executives doubted the allegations were accurate.This email has given impetus to the broadcaster\u2019s critics who contend the story should not have been broadcast. A spokeswoman for the national broadcaster said: \u201cIn a climate where official information about asylum seeker operations is scarce and hard to come by, the ABC makes no apologies for seeking as much information as it can from as many sources as it can to either verify or disprove the allegations at the centre of the story.\u201dAbbott also reaffirmed his concerns about the ABC's collaboration with Guardian Australia on the story that revealed Australian spy agencies\u2019 past efforts to target the phones of the Indonesian president, his wife and inner circle. Those disclosures were based on documents provided by the former US intelligence contractor Edward Snowden.Abbott\u2019s intervention was amplified in Sydney\u2019s Daily Telegraph newspaper on Thursday with strong page one treatment.The paper quoted Abbott\u2019s key business adviser, and former ABC chairman Maurice Newman as saying: \u201cIn relation to the navy, [the ABC has] given credence to the idea that the navy may well have tortured people \u2026 99% of Australians would think that's highly unlikely. I think [the allegations] are inimical to Australia's best interests.\u201cIt casts doubt on Australia's reputation and I think it's regrettable.\u201dThe communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, however, launched a defence of the ABC. He told Fairfax Media that politicians may have issues with ABC content, but could not tell media outlets what to write.\u201cWhat's the alternative \u2026 the editor-in-chief [of the ABC] becomes the prime minister?\u201d Turnbull said. \u201cPoliticians, whether prime ministers or communications ministers, will often be unhappy with the ABC \u2026 but you can't tell them what to write.'\u201d- with Daniel Hurst", "tags": ["Australian Broadcasting Corporation", "Rupert Murdoch", "Australia news", "Australian politics", "Media", "Asia Pacific", "Julie Bishop", "Tony Abbott", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Coalition", "Labor party", "Indonesia", "Edward Snowden", "Surveillance"], "title": "ABC may lose Australia Network"},{"date": "2014-01-24T07:41:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "\n[if gte mso 9]><xml> <o:OfficeDocumentSettings> <o:AllowPNG/> </o:OfficeDocumentSettings> </xml><![endif] \n[if gte mso 9]><xml> <w:WordDocument> <w:View>Normal</w:View> <w:Zoom>0</w:Zoom> <w:TrackMoves/> <w:TrackFormatting/> <w:PunctuationKerning/> <w:ValidateAgainstSchemas/> <w:SaveIfXMLInvalid>false</w:SaveIfXMLInvalid> <w:IgnoreMixedContent>false</w:IgnoreMixedContent> <w:AlwaysShowPlaceholderText>false</w:AlwaysShowPlaceholderText> <w:DoNotPromoteQF/> <w:LidThemeOther>EN-GB</w:LidThemeOther> <w:LidThemeAsian>JA</w:LidThemeAsian> <w:LidThemeComplexScript>X-NONE</w:LidThemeComplexScript> <w:Compatibility> <w:BreakWrappedTables/> <w:SnapToGridInCell/> <w:WrapTextWithPunct/> <w:UseAsianBreakRules/> <w:DontGrowAutofit/> <w:SplitPgBreakAndParaMark/> <w:EnableOpenTypeKerning/> <w:DontFlipMirrorIndents/> <w:OverrideTableStyleHps/> </w:Compatibility> <m:mathPr> <m:mathFont m:val=\"Cambria Math\"/> <m:brkBin m:val=\"before\"/> <m:brkBinSub m:val=\"&#45;-\"/> <m:smallFrac m:val=\"off\"/> <m:dispDef/> <m:lMargin m:val=\"0\"/> <m:rMargin m:val=\"0\"/> <m:defJc m:val=\"centerGroup\"/> <m:wrapIndent m:val=\"1440\"/> <m:intLim m:val=\"subSup\"/> <m:naryLim m:val=\"undOvr\"/> </m:mathPr></w:WordDocument> </xml><![endif]\n[if gte mso 9]><xml> <w:LatentStyles DefLockedState=\"false\" DefUnhideWhenUsed=\"true\" DefSemiHidden=\"true\" DefQFormat=\"false\" DefPriority=\"99\" LatentStyleCount=\"276\"> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"0\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Normal\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 7\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 8\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 9\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 7\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 8\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 9\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"35\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"caption\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"10\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Title\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"1\" Name=\"Default Paragraph Font\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"11\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Subtitle\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"22\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Strong\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"20\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Emphasis\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"59\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Table Grid\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Placeholder Text\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"1\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"No Spacing\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Revision\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"34\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"List Paragraph\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"29\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Quote\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"30\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Intense Quote\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"19\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Subtle Emphasis\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"21\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Intense Emphasis\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"31\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Subtle Reference\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"32\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Intense Reference\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"33\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Book Title\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"37\" Name=\"Bibliography\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"TOC Heading\"/> </w:LatentStyles> </xml><![endif]The first thing I thought when I saw the artist's impression of the planned Australia 108 skyscraper for Melbourne\u2019s Southbank district was that it reminded me of a Dyson vacuum cleaner. Perhaps it\u2019s the contorted angular form, or the metallic purple spire and detailing. Whatever it is, I wondered whether, like our Dyson DC59 Animal, Australia 108 comes with two-tier radial cyclone technology. Or is its ugliness simply a monument to putting too much trust in computer aided design? Australia 108 will be Melbourne\u2019s tallest building, a fact that isn\u2019t lost on the folks hubristically marketing the project. And while the developer \u2013 Singapore\u2019s Aspial Corporation \u2013 had high hopes of sending it soaring 388 metres above the Yarra, aviation authorities had other ideas.\u00a0Architect Nonda Katsalidis (of Fender Katsalidis) has had to rejig the design, bringing it down a peg or two, to allow planes to make an emergency landing at Essendon without whacking into somebody\u2019s lurid purple balcony.And so Aspial will have to make do with 312 metres instead, still a good 15 metres above the city's current mine-is-bigger-than-yours champion, Eureka Tower at 297m (though 13m shorter than the Gold Coast's Q1). Indeed, Eureka is just down the road from the proposed Australia 108, meaning they will be flopped out almost side-by-side for an easy comparison of size.\u00a0 It is tempting to point the finger at Aspial chief executive Koh Wee Seng. He has been quoted saying he wants his erection to stand among the world\u2019s most iconic. However, somebody should have told Koh that it\u2019s not how big it is, it\u2019s how you use it. And setting out to create an icon never really works out; just look towards James Packer with his Barangaroo casino. Aspial hopes to create a mixed-use development, incorporating apartments, a hotel, and some retail. However this is currently being reviewed. Architecture critic and author Philip Drew believes Australia 108 is \u201ctotally unnecessary.\u201cWhat\u2019s the point of yet another tower claiming it is higher than the rest?\u201d he says. \u201cThe simple fact is that we really do not need buildings more than 10-storeys high, and pushing them up over 300 metres is extremely energy inefficient, highly expensive to maintain, and inconvenient for the people who live in the buildings.\u201d As for the design, Drew is less than impressed: \u201cIt\u2019s a tortured shape, pretending to be a meaningful sculpture,\u201d he says. \u201cWhereas something such as the Willis Tower in Chicago is actually a rational design, this is just junk crying out to be labelled as an icon. It will be Melbourne\u2019s tallest residential building, until some other godawful thing supplants it.\u201d Philip Goad, professor of architecture at the University of Melbourne, believes Australia 108 will make Melbourne\u2019s Southbank almost an equal partner in the visual weight of the city\u2019s overall skyline.\u201cThis has been happening over the last decade where south of the Yarra has now become an almost high-rise residential suburb of Melbourne,\u201d says Goad. \u201cSouthbank is rapidly becoming Melbourne\u2019s Manhattan.\u201d And he believes that Southbank is a city of 21st century where the vertical has precedence over the horizontal. \u201cThat part of Southbank is physically bound by freeways and overpasses, so it is a contained little knot that\u2019s very, very tall. It\u2019s not necessarily my idea of place to live but to many people it will be just across the river from the city proper.\u201d And what does he think of the tower itself? \u201cWell, Nonda Katsalidis's interests are sculptural and so the building is meant to read like a piece of constructivist sculpture,\u201d he says.\u201cI think tall buildings in Australia talk about aspirations for personal legacy at the level of the skyline, and that\u2019s not unusual. It\u2019s interesting thought that once skyscrapers were symbols of corporations. Now they\u2019re no longer that because of the complexity of tenancies. They have become visual landmarks rather than bearers of meaning. It\u2019s no surprise then that the architects these days are treating them like sculptural totems.\u201d ", "tags": ["Architecture", "Melbourne", "Australia news", "Skyscrapers"], "title": "Does Melbourne need Australia 108?"},{"date": "2014-02-25T22:13:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "We\u2019ve all done it. We walk down the street and see a homeless guy asking for some small change and we stride straight past avoiding his eye. Or we read about children in Syria being maimed and tortured and quickly flick over the page without a second of thought, continuing to munch on our toast.These kinds of empathy failures are pretty normal. Although the neuroscientists now tell us that 98% of people have the ability to empathise, the reality is that we lead busy, stressful lives, and often feel we don\u2019t have the time or energy to step into other people\u2019s shoes, look at the world from their perspective \u2013 and give them some support. In other words, we fail to bring our neural circuitry to life, so our empathic potential lies dormant.But something more serious is going on: Australia, the lucky country, is losing its empathy. A recent report based on a national survey by the Scanlon Foundation highlights some powerful statistics:What are figures like these telling us? Without anyone really noticing, communities are fracturing and social cohesion being eroded. More and more people are caught up in a culture of hyper-individualism where the question \u201cwhat\u2019s in it for me?\u201d dominates their minds. They are turning their backs on socially marginalised groups such as asylum seekers and becoming less willing to trust others, or listen to the views of people whose beliefs differ from their own \u2013 whether it\u2019s on issues such as climate change or private schools. The big picture is clear: there\u2019s a growing empathy deficit that is creating new levels of social division.In some ways these attitudes are surprising. You might expect them in a country that is suffering chronic economic recession, where people scapegoat immigrants and blame them for their economic woes. But Australia hardly qualifies on these grounds, having done better than most countries to survive the repercussions of the global financial meltdown in 2008. It\u2019s also a little strange for a nation that prides itself on its multiculturalism (of which I am a product, with a mixed heritage including Polish, Croatian, Romanian and Scottish). In fact, 84% of respondents in the Scanlon study said they thought multiculturalism had been good for the country, and 70% believed it benefited the nation economically.On the other hand, it\u2019s clear the prevalent political culture is hardly conducive to creating empathy, even if the past decade has seen growing recognition of the perspectives and rights of Indigenous Australians. Just think how much stereotyping remains a staple of the contemporary political scene. Politicians from across the spectrum frequently refer to asylum seekers as \u201cillegals\u201d \u2013 Tony Abbott\u2019s government decreed that they should be described as such in all official correspondence \u2013 despite the Refugee Council of Australia and the United Nations pointing out that it is an inaccurate term since there is nothing illegal about seeking asylum.\u201cIf you wanted to disenfranchise refugees, and leave the public thinking they have no rights, then call them \u2018illegal\u2019 over and over again,\u201d the former Paul Keating speechwriter Don Watson told me. Politicians, he says, do everything they can to \u201ckeep any kind of empathy at bay\u201d, finding language that \u201cdulls the instinct to ask \u2018What if that were me and my children in one of those boats, or in one of those detention centres?\u2019\u201d Thomas Keneally \u2013 author of the empathic bestseller Schindler\u2019s Ark \u2013 has made similar remarks, commenting on the \u201cracial hysteria\u201d politicians have whipped up against asylum seekers.It is this kind of stereotyping, where we fail to see the real individuals behind the labels we impose on them, that is at the root of the empathy crisis. This empathy decline is not, however, Australia\u2019s alone. Across the western world there is evidence of a growing empathy deficit. A study at the University of Michigan revealed empathy levels in the United States have dropped 48% over the past 40 years, with the steepest fall happening over the last decade. This means that fewer and fewer people are making the effort to extend their moral concern towards strangers, or to take into account the feelings and perspectives of others. In the UK, the empathy deficit is reflected in a chronic decline of social trust. In 1959 60% of people thought most other people could be trusted. That figure has now halved. A creeping, self-centred individualism has become dominant in public culture.It all sounds a bit depressing. But there\u2019s good news. There is a quiet revolution of empathic thinking and social action going on around the globe. With a little imagination, Australians could learn to harness the power of empathy to shift the contours of society. So what does this empathy revolution look like?Intriguingly, empathy is a more popular concept today than at any moment in its history. It\u2019s on the lips of everyone from the Dalai Lama to Barack Obama, from business gurus to happiness experts. Internet searches for the word \u201cempathy\u201d have more than doubled in frequency in the past ten years.A major reason for this surge of interest is because of extraordinary new insights into the science of empathy. For more than three centuries we\u2019ve been fed a dangerous piece of propaganda, which is that human beings are essentially selfish, individualistic creatures. But the scientific consensus has shifted in the last decade. We are also Homo empathicus: alongside our selfish inner drives is a more empathic, co-operative self.Neuroscientists have discovered that almost all of us (exceptions include psychopaths) have a ten-section \u201cempathy-circuit\u201d wired into our brains. Damage part of it and you may be unable to recognise fear or other emotions on someone\u2019s face. Evolutionary biologists have shown this co-operative, empathic self is a trait we share with our primate cousins, such as the hippie-like bonobo chimp. And psychologists have demonstrated that the empathic ability to step into another\u2019s shoes and appreciate that their viewpoint may differ from our own develops in most children by the age of about two.The problem is that we\u2019re still not very skilled at tapping into our full empathic potential. But luckily empathy can be learned, like learning to ride a bike or drive a car. The best place to start is at school. I believe every child should have the right to take part in programmes such as Roots of Empathy, the world\u2019s most successful empathy teaching initiative. Having started in Canada, it has now spread to countries such as New Zealand and Germany, and more than half a million children have done it. How does it work? The teacher is a baby. True. A class of kids adopts a baby for the year, who visits every few weeks with a parent and an instructor from the programme. The children sit around the baby and discuss things such as: why\u2019s the baby crying? Why is the baby laughing? What might she be feeling? This effort to step into the baby\u2019s shoes is then extended outwards. What\u2019s it like to be bullied in the playground, or to be made fun of if you\u2019re in a wheelchair? The results are remarkable. A study in Scotland showed the programme boosted co-operative behaviour in 55% of pupils, decreased bullying and increased academic attainment. Roots of Empathy has been piloted in Western Australia. It\u2019s now time to roll it out across the nation\u2019s classrooms.But we can\u2019t wait 20 years for a new generation of empathic citizens to emerge. We also need to work on ourselves. On a personal level, try having a conversation with a stranger at least once a week. Get beyond superficial chatter and talk about the stuff that really matters in life \u2013 love, family, death or politics. Conversations with strangers are one of the best ways to overcome our prejudices and assumptions about others, and can cure us of making snap stereotyped judgements about people based on appearance or accent. On the political level, we need to generate these kinds of conversations on a mass scale. One inspiring organisation that does this is the Parents Circle, which creates grassroots dialogues between Israelis and Palestinians. One of their most powerful projects was the Hello Peace phone line. Any Israeli citizen could call a free phone number and talk to a Palestinian stranger for up to half an hour, and Palestinians could similarly call Israelis. In its first five years of operation, more than a million calls were made.Just imagine if there were similar phone lines (or online video dialogue projects) across Australia, which created conversations between climate change activists and climate change sceptics, between anti-immigrant advocates and new immigrants themselves, between bombastic politicians and their constituents who feel voiceless; between rich and poor, young and old. It would be the beginning of an empathy revolution. Not an old-fashioned revolution of new laws or policies, but something much more radical: a revolution of human relationships.Roman Krznaric\u2019s new book is Empathy: A Handbook for Revolution. ", "tags": ["Life and style", "Australia news", "Philosophy", "Australian politics", "Books"], "title": "Is Australia losing its empathy?"},{"date": "2014-01-30T01:27:19Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Another signal has emerged that the Abbott government intends to strip the ABC of its international broadcasting service \u2013 the Australia Network \u2013 in a significant concession to Rupert Murdoch and to conservative commentators critical of public broadcasting.The foreign affairs minister, Julie Bishop, has been preparing the public ground since opposition for the ABC to lose its Australia Network regional broadcasting service, which it was awarded by the previous Labor government after a bitterly contested process.In January Bishop criticised the quality of the programming on the Australia Network, and argued it was not serving Australia\u2019s regional interests as \u201ca tool of public diplomacy\u201d.The Australian newspaper reported on Thursday that the service was likely to be scrapped in the May budget as a savings measure. The commission of audit established by the government will also run the ruler over other ABC services.The Sky News network lost out to the ABC in the Australia Network tender process carried out under the previous Labor government. The multimillion-dollar tender was botched due to sharp divisions within Labor over whether the ABC or Sky should emerge with the regional service.Sky, a broadcaster part owned by BSkyB \u2013 a British company controlled by 21st Century Fox, which is a sister company to Murdoch\u2019s Australian publishing arm, News Corp \u2013 has made no secret of its fury about that process, and has lobbied the Coalition to have the ABC\u2019s contract dumped.In its aborted media reform package in early 2013, Labor did manage to legislate a provision where only the ABC or its associated companies could provide \u201ccommonwealth funded international broadcasting services\u201d. It was a means of trying to lock in the ABC\u2019s position regarding the Australian Network after any change of government.The reform suggests the Coalition would need further legislation if it wanted not to bank the saving, but clear the field for a commercial broadcaster. Whether the ABC would need to be compensated for the dumped contract is unclear.The acting opposition leader, Tanya Plibersek, said she did not watch a lot of the Australia Network because she lived in Australia, but believed the channel was providing \u201ca very valuable service\u201d in projecting Australian values to the region.She said the government was \"proposing to cut almost a quarter of a billion dollars\" through the axing of the Australia Network contract, despite signalling before the election that it would not reduce funding to the ABC.Asked whether the Australia Network should reflect support for Australia to achieve the aim of soft diplomacy, Plibersek said freedom of speech was a worthy value to promote.\u201cI'm very happy for the world to see that in Australia you can stand up, you can criticise the government, the government can respond and everybody goes home that night safe and sound,\u201d she said.The Greens leader, Christine Milne, said the Australia Network did an \"outstanding job\" and it would be \"a very bad mistake\" for Abbott to abandon the service.In addition to bruised feelings over the Australia Network process, the Murdoch-owned News Corp is also campaigning to have the ABC pushed out of digital news services. The ABC\u2019s online content is offered free to readers and viewers, and News Corp is one of several publishers arguing the national broadcaster\u2019s ongoing digital expansion threatens their business.News Corp faces further commercial pressure in 2014. The tabloids will face competition in Australia for the first time in many years with the entry of the British-owned Daily Mail \u2013 one of the most successful digital news sites in the world.The prime minister, Tony Abbott, launched a strong public criticism of the ABC on Wednesday during a radio appearance on 2GB in Sydney.Abbott took issue with the ABC's reporting of claims by asylum seekers of mistreatment at the hands of the Australian navy. The prime minister suggested the national broadcaster needed to be more patriotic, and should be inclined to give the navy the benefit of the doubt.The ABC has taken steps to check the accuracy of the claims made by the asylum seekers, and an email from an ABC researcher made its way into the public domain indicating that some editorial executives doubted the allegations were accurate.This email has given impetus to the broadcaster\u2019s critics who contend the story should not have been broadcast. A spokeswoman for the national broadcaster said: \u201cIn a climate where official information about asylum seeker operations is scarce and hard to come by, the ABC makes no apologies for seeking as much information as it can from as many sources as it can to either verify or disprove the allegations at the centre of the story.\u201dAbbott also reaffirmed his concerns about the ABC's collaboration with Guardian Australia on the story that revealed Australian spy agencies\u2019 past efforts to target the phones of the Indonesian president, his wife and inner circle. Those disclosures were based on documents provided by the former US intelligence contractor Edward Snowden.Abbott\u2019s intervention was amplified in Sydney\u2019s Daily Telegraph newspaper on Thursday with strong page one treatment.The paper quoted Abbott\u2019s key business adviser, and former ABC chairman Maurice Newman as saying: \u201cIn relation to the navy, [the ABC has] given credence to the idea that the navy may well have tortured people \u2026 99% of Australians would think that's highly unlikely. I think [the allegations] are inimical to Australia's best interests.\u201cIt casts doubt on Australia's reputation and I think it's regrettable.\u201dThe communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, however, launched a defence of the ABC. He told Fairfax Media that politicians may have issues with ABC content, but could not tell media outlets what to write.\u201cWhat's the alternative \u2026 the editor-in-chief [of the ABC] becomes the prime minister?\u201d Turnbull said. \u201cPoliticians, whether prime ministers or communications ministers, will often be unhappy with the ABC \u2026 but you can't tell them what to write.'\u201d- with Daniel Hurst", "tags": ["Australian Broadcasting Corporation", "Rupert Murdoch", "Australia news", "Australian politics", "Media", "Asia Pacific", "Julie Bishop", "Tony Abbott", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Coalition", "Labor party", "Indonesia", "Edward Snowden", "Surveillance"], "title": "ABC may lose Australia Network"},{"date": "2014-01-24T07:41:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "\n[if gte mso 9]><xml> <o:OfficeDocumentSettings> <o:AllowPNG/> </o:OfficeDocumentSettings> </xml><![endif] \n[if gte mso 9]><xml> <w:WordDocument> <w:View>Normal</w:View> <w:Zoom>0</w:Zoom> <w:TrackMoves/> <w:TrackFormatting/> <w:PunctuationKerning/> <w:ValidateAgainstSchemas/> <w:SaveIfXMLInvalid>false</w:SaveIfXMLInvalid> <w:IgnoreMixedContent>false</w:IgnoreMixedContent> <w:AlwaysShowPlaceholderText>false</w:AlwaysShowPlaceholderText> <w:DoNotPromoteQF/> <w:LidThemeOther>EN-GB</w:LidThemeOther> <w:LidThemeAsian>JA</w:LidThemeAsian> <w:LidThemeComplexScript>X-NONE</w:LidThemeComplexScript> <w:Compatibility> <w:BreakWrappedTables/> <w:SnapToGridInCell/> <w:WrapTextWithPunct/> <w:UseAsianBreakRules/> <w:DontGrowAutofit/> <w:SplitPgBreakAndParaMark/> <w:EnableOpenTypeKerning/> <w:DontFlipMirrorIndents/> <w:OverrideTableStyleHps/> </w:Compatibility> <m:mathPr> <m:mathFont m:val=\"Cambria Math\"/> <m:brkBin m:val=\"before\"/> <m:brkBinSub m:val=\"&#45;-\"/> <m:smallFrac m:val=\"off\"/> <m:dispDef/> <m:lMargin m:val=\"0\"/> <m:rMargin m:val=\"0\"/> <m:defJc m:val=\"centerGroup\"/> <m:wrapIndent m:val=\"1440\"/> <m:intLim m:val=\"subSup\"/> <m:naryLim m:val=\"undOvr\"/> </m:mathPr></w:WordDocument> </xml><![endif]\n[if gte mso 9]><xml> <w:LatentStyles DefLockedState=\"false\" DefUnhideWhenUsed=\"true\" DefSemiHidden=\"true\" DefQFormat=\"false\" DefPriority=\"99\" LatentStyleCount=\"276\"> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"0\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Normal\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 7\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 8\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 9\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 7\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 8\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 9\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"35\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"caption\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"10\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Title\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"1\" Name=\"Default Paragraph Font\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"11\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Subtitle\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"22\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Strong\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"20\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Emphasis\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"59\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Table Grid\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Placeholder Text\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"1\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"No Spacing\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Revision\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"34\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"List Paragraph\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"29\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Quote\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"30\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Intense Quote\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"19\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Subtle Emphasis\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"21\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Intense Emphasis\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"31\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Subtle Reference\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"32\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Intense Reference\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"33\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Book Title\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"37\" Name=\"Bibliography\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"TOC Heading\"/> </w:LatentStyles> </xml><![endif]The first thing I thought when I saw the artist's impression of the planned Australia 108 skyscraper for Melbourne\u2019s Southbank district was that it reminded me of a Dyson vacuum cleaner. Perhaps it\u2019s the contorted angular form, or the metallic purple spire and detailing. Whatever it is, I wondered whether, like our Dyson DC59 Animal, Australia 108 comes with two-tier radial cyclone technology. Or is its ugliness simply a monument to putting too much trust in computer aided design? Australia 108 will be Melbourne\u2019s tallest building, a fact that isn\u2019t lost on the folks hubristically marketing the project. And while the developer \u2013 Singapore\u2019s Aspial Corporation \u2013 had high hopes of sending it soaring 388 metres above the Yarra, aviation authorities had other ideas.\u00a0Architect Nonda Katsalidis (of Fender Katsalidis) has had to rejig the design, bringing it down a peg or two, to allow planes to make an emergency landing at Essendon without whacking into somebody\u2019s lurid purple balcony.And so Aspial will have to make do with 312 metres instead, still a good 15 metres above the city's current mine-is-bigger-than-yours champion, Eureka Tower at 297m (though 13m shorter than the Gold Coast's Q1). Indeed, Eureka is just down the road from the proposed Australia 108, meaning they will be flopped out almost side-by-side for an easy comparison of size.\u00a0 It is tempting to point the finger at Aspial chief executive Koh Wee Seng. He has been quoted saying he wants his erection to stand among the world\u2019s most iconic. However, somebody should have told Koh that it\u2019s not how big it is, it\u2019s how you use it. And setting out to create an icon never really works out; just look towards James Packer with his Barangaroo casino. Aspial hopes to create a mixed-use development, incorporating apartments, a hotel, and some retail. However this is currently being reviewed. Architecture critic and author Philip Drew believes Australia 108 is \u201ctotally unnecessary.\u201cWhat\u2019s the point of yet another tower claiming it is higher than the rest?\u201d he says. \u201cThe simple fact is that we really do not need buildings more than 10-storeys high, and pushing them up over 300 metres is extremely energy inefficient, highly expensive to maintain, and inconvenient for the people who live in the buildings.\u201d As for the design, Drew is less than impressed: \u201cIt\u2019s a tortured shape, pretending to be a meaningful sculpture,\u201d he says. \u201cWhereas something such as the Willis Tower in Chicago is actually a rational design, this is just junk crying out to be labelled as an icon. It will be Melbourne\u2019s tallest residential building, until some other godawful thing supplants it.\u201d Philip Goad, professor of architecture at the University of Melbourne, believes Australia 108 will make Melbourne\u2019s Southbank almost an equal partner in the visual weight of the city\u2019s overall skyline.\u201cThis has been happening over the last decade where south of the Yarra has now become an almost high-rise residential suburb of Melbourne,\u201d says Goad. \u201cSouthbank is rapidly becoming Melbourne\u2019s Manhattan.\u201d And he believes that Southbank is a city of 21st century where the vertical has precedence over the horizontal. \u201cThat part of Southbank is physically bound by freeways and overpasses, so it is a contained little knot that\u2019s very, very tall. It\u2019s not necessarily my idea of place to live but to many people it will be just across the river from the city proper.\u201d And what does he think of the tower itself? \u201cWell, Nonda Katsalidis's interests are sculptural and so the building is meant to read like a piece of constructivist sculpture,\u201d he says.\u201cI think tall buildings in Australia talk about aspirations for personal legacy at the level of the skyline, and that\u2019s not unusual. It\u2019s interesting thought that once skyscrapers were symbols of corporations. Now they\u2019re no longer that because of the complexity of tenancies. They have become visual landmarks rather than bearers of meaning. It\u2019s no surprise then that the architects these days are treating them like sculptural totems.\u201d ", "tags": ["Architecture", "Melbourne", "Australia news", "Skyscrapers"], "title": "Does Melbourne need Australia 108?"},{"date": "2014-03-23T03:01:25Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Labor will return to government in South Australia with the support of Geoff Brock, an independent MP.Jay Weatherill, the incumbent premier, announced Brock had agreed to support a minority Labor government and would receive a ministry. The announcement comes a week after a state election left Labor with 23 seats and the conservatives with 22, leaving two independents holding the keys to government.\"Mr Brock has chosen the Labor minority government here in South Australia.\"Brock told reporters in Adelaide he had accepted the position of regional development minister in Weatherill's cabinet, as well as responsibility for state and local government relations. \"These portfolios will allow me to provide a voice for regional South Australia,\" Brock said.He has pledged to back the government on issues of confidence or supply but will remain free to vote against Labor on other issues.Brock said fundamental to his decision was the potential instability that could have resulted had he opted to support the Liberals.With Labor holding 23 seats in the 47-seat House of Assembly after the election and the Liberals 22, the balance of power was to rest with Brock and fellow independent MP Bob Such.Labor needed the support of just one independent to form a minority government; the Liberals needed both.But the uncertainty escalated on Saturday when it was revealed that Such was in hospital ahead of surgery on Wednesday and will take up to two months' sick leave.Had Brock sided with the Liberals, it would have left the major parties tied at 23 votes each and the potential for a fresh election to be called.Opposition leader Steven Marshall is yet to respond.South Australian Greens senator Sarah Hanson-Young said: \"Progressive South Australians have had a win today.\" There would have been election fatigue if the state had been forced to go back to the polls, she said.", "tags": ["South Australian politics", "South Australia", "Jay Weatherill", "Labor party", "Australia news"], "title": "Labor to form government in South Australia"},{"date": "2014-02-25T22:13:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "We\u2019ve all done it. We walk down the street and see a homeless guy asking for some small change and we stride straight past avoiding his eye. Or we read about children in Syria being maimed and tortured and quickly flick over the page without a second of thought, continuing to munch on our toast.These kinds of empathy failures are pretty normal. Although the neuroscientists now tell us that 98% of people have the ability to empathise, the reality is that we lead busy, stressful lives, and often feel we don\u2019t have the time or energy to step into other people\u2019s shoes, look at the world from their perspective \u2013 and give them some support. In other words, we fail to bring our neural circuitry to life, so our empathic potential lies dormant.But something more serious is going on: Australia, the lucky country, is losing its empathy. A recent report based on a national survey by the Scanlon Foundation highlights some powerful statistics:What are figures like these telling us? Without anyone really noticing, communities are fracturing and social cohesion being eroded. More and more people are caught up in a culture of hyper-individualism where the question \u201cwhat\u2019s in it for me?\u201d dominates their minds. They are turning their backs on socially marginalised groups such as asylum seekers and becoming less willing to trust others, or listen to the views of people whose beliefs differ from their own \u2013 whether it\u2019s on issues such as climate change or private schools. The big picture is clear: there\u2019s a growing empathy deficit that is creating new levels of social division.In some ways these attitudes are surprising. You might expect them in a country that is suffering chronic economic recession, where people scapegoat immigrants and blame them for their economic woes. But Australia hardly qualifies on these grounds, having done better than most countries to survive the repercussions of the global financial meltdown in 2008. It\u2019s also a little strange for a nation that prides itself on its multiculturalism (of which I am a product, with a mixed heritage including Polish, Croatian, Romanian and Scottish). In fact, 84% of respondents in the Scanlon study said they thought multiculturalism had been good for the country, and 70% believed it benefited the nation economically.On the other hand, it\u2019s clear the prevalent political culture is hardly conducive to creating empathy, even if the past decade has seen growing recognition of the perspectives and rights of Indigenous Australians. Just think how much stereotyping remains a staple of the contemporary political scene. Politicians from across the spectrum frequently refer to asylum seekers as \u201cillegals\u201d \u2013 Tony Abbott\u2019s government decreed that they should be described as such in all official correspondence \u2013 despite the Refugee Council of Australia and the United Nations pointing out that it is an inaccurate term since there is nothing illegal about seeking asylum.\u201cIf you wanted to disenfranchise refugees, and leave the public thinking they have no rights, then call them \u2018illegal\u2019 over and over again,\u201d the former Paul Keating speechwriter Don Watson told me. Politicians, he says, do everything they can to \u201ckeep any kind of empathy at bay\u201d, finding language that \u201cdulls the instinct to ask \u2018What if that were me and my children in one of those boats, or in one of those detention centres?\u2019\u201d Thomas Keneally \u2013 author of the empathic bestseller Schindler\u2019s Ark \u2013 has made similar remarks, commenting on the \u201cracial hysteria\u201d politicians have whipped up against asylum seekers.It is this kind of stereotyping, where we fail to see the real individuals behind the labels we impose on them, that is at the root of the empathy crisis. This empathy decline is not, however, Australia\u2019s alone. Across the western world there is evidence of a growing empathy deficit. A study at the University of Michigan revealed empathy levels in the United States have dropped 48% over the past 40 years, with the steepest fall happening over the last decade. This means that fewer and fewer people are making the effort to extend their moral concern towards strangers, or to take into account the feelings and perspectives of others. In the UK, the empathy deficit is reflected in a chronic decline of social trust. In 1959 60% of people thought most other people could be trusted. That figure has now halved. A creeping, self-centred individualism has become dominant in public culture.It all sounds a bit depressing. But there\u2019s good news. There is a quiet revolution of empathic thinking and social action going on around the globe. With a little imagination, Australians could learn to harness the power of empathy to shift the contours of society. So what does this empathy revolution look like?Intriguingly, empathy is a more popular concept today than at any moment in its history. It\u2019s on the lips of everyone from the Dalai Lama to Barack Obama, from business gurus to happiness experts. Internet searches for the word \u201cempathy\u201d have more than doubled in frequency in the past ten years.A major reason for this surge of interest is because of extraordinary new insights into the science of empathy. For more than three centuries we\u2019ve been fed a dangerous piece of propaganda, which is that human beings are essentially selfish, individualistic creatures. But the scientific consensus has shifted in the last decade. We are also Homo empathicus: alongside our selfish inner drives is a more empathic, co-operative self.Neuroscientists have discovered that almost all of us (exceptions include psychopaths) have a ten-section \u201cempathy-circuit\u201d wired into our brains. Damage part of it and you may be unable to recognise fear or other emotions on someone\u2019s face. Evolutionary biologists have shown this co-operative, empathic self is a trait we share with our primate cousins, such as the hippie-like bonobo chimp. And psychologists have demonstrated that the empathic ability to step into another\u2019s shoes and appreciate that their viewpoint may differ from our own develops in most children by the age of about two.The problem is that we\u2019re still not very skilled at tapping into our full empathic potential. But luckily empathy can be learned, like learning to ride a bike or drive a car. The best place to start is at school. I believe every child should have the right to take part in programmes such as Roots of Empathy, the world\u2019s most successful empathy teaching initiative. Having started in Canada, it has now spread to countries such as New Zealand and Germany, and more than half a million children have done it. How does it work? The teacher is a baby. True. A class of kids adopts a baby for the year, who visits every few weeks with a parent and an instructor from the programme. The children sit around the baby and discuss things such as: why\u2019s the baby crying? Why is the baby laughing? What might she be feeling? This effort to step into the baby\u2019s shoes is then extended outwards. What\u2019s it like to be bullied in the playground, or to be made fun of if you\u2019re in a wheelchair? The results are remarkable. A study in Scotland showed the programme boosted co-operative behaviour in 55% of pupils, decreased bullying and increased academic attainment. Roots of Empathy has been piloted in Western Australia. It\u2019s now time to roll it out across the nation\u2019s classrooms.But we can\u2019t wait 20 years for a new generation of empathic citizens to emerge. We also need to work on ourselves. On a personal level, try having a conversation with a stranger at least once a week. Get beyond superficial chatter and talk about the stuff that really matters in life \u2013 love, family, death or politics. Conversations with strangers are one of the best ways to overcome our prejudices and assumptions about others, and can cure us of making snap stereotyped judgements about people based on appearance or accent. On the political level, we need to generate these kinds of conversations on a mass scale. One inspiring organisation that does this is the Parents Circle, which creates grassroots dialogues between Israelis and Palestinians. One of their most powerful projects was the Hello Peace phone line. Any Israeli citizen could call a free phone number and talk to a Palestinian stranger for up to half an hour, and Palestinians could similarly call Israelis. In its first five years of operation, more than a million calls were made.Just imagine if there were similar phone lines (or online video dialogue projects) across Australia, which created conversations between climate change activists and climate change sceptics, between anti-immigrant advocates and new immigrants themselves, between bombastic politicians and their constituents who feel voiceless; between rich and poor, young and old. It would be the beginning of an empathy revolution. Not an old-fashioned revolution of new laws or policies, but something much more radical: a revolution of human relationships.Roman Krznaric\u2019s new book is Empathy: A Handbook for Revolution. ", "tags": ["Life and style", "Australia news", "Philosophy", "Australian politics", "Books"], "title": "Is Australia losing its empathy?"},{"date": "2014-01-30T01:27:19Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Another signal has emerged that the Abbott government intends to strip the ABC of its international broadcasting service \u2013 the Australia Network \u2013 in a significant concession to Rupert Murdoch and to conservative commentators critical of public broadcasting.The foreign affairs minister, Julie Bishop, has been preparing the public ground since opposition for the ABC to lose its Australia Network regional broadcasting service, which it was awarded by the previous Labor government after a bitterly contested process.In January Bishop criticised the quality of the programming on the Australia Network, and argued it was not serving Australia\u2019s regional interests as \u201ca tool of public diplomacy\u201d.The Australian newspaper reported on Thursday that the service was likely to be scrapped in the May budget as a savings measure. The commission of audit established by the government will also run the ruler over other ABC services.The Sky News network lost out to the ABC in the Australia Network tender process carried out under the previous Labor government. The multimillion-dollar tender was botched due to sharp divisions within Labor over whether the ABC or Sky should emerge with the regional service.Sky, a broadcaster part owned by BSkyB \u2013 a British company controlled by 21st Century Fox, which is a sister company to Murdoch\u2019s Australian publishing arm, News Corp \u2013 has made no secret of its fury about that process, and has lobbied the Coalition to have the ABC\u2019s contract dumped.In its aborted media reform package in early 2013, Labor did manage to legislate a provision where only the ABC or its associated companies could provide \u201ccommonwealth funded international broadcasting services\u201d. It was a means of trying to lock in the ABC\u2019s position regarding the Australian Network after any change of government.The reform suggests the Coalition would need further legislation if it wanted not to bank the saving, but clear the field for a commercial broadcaster. Whether the ABC would need to be compensated for the dumped contract is unclear.The acting opposition leader, Tanya Plibersek, said she did not watch a lot of the Australia Network because she lived in Australia, but believed the channel was providing \u201ca very valuable service\u201d in projecting Australian values to the region.She said the government was \"proposing to cut almost a quarter of a billion dollars\" through the axing of the Australia Network contract, despite signalling before the election that it would not reduce funding to the ABC.Asked whether the Australia Network should reflect support for Australia to achieve the aim of soft diplomacy, Plibersek said freedom of speech was a worthy value to promote.\u201cI'm very happy for the world to see that in Australia you can stand up, you can criticise the government, the government can respond and everybody goes home that night safe and sound,\u201d she said.The Greens leader, Christine Milne, said the Australia Network did an \"outstanding job\" and it would be \"a very bad mistake\" for Abbott to abandon the service.In addition to bruised feelings over the Australia Network process, the Murdoch-owned News Corp is also campaigning to have the ABC pushed out of digital news services. The ABC\u2019s online content is offered free to readers and viewers, and News Corp is one of several publishers arguing the national broadcaster\u2019s ongoing digital expansion threatens their business.News Corp faces further commercial pressure in 2014. The tabloids will face competition in Australia for the first time in many years with the entry of the British-owned Daily Mail \u2013 one of the most successful digital news sites in the world.The prime minister, Tony Abbott, launched a strong public criticism of the ABC on Wednesday during a radio appearance on 2GB in Sydney.Abbott took issue with the ABC's reporting of claims by asylum seekers of mistreatment at the hands of the Australian navy. The prime minister suggested the national broadcaster needed to be more patriotic, and should be inclined to give the navy the benefit of the doubt.The ABC has taken steps to check the accuracy of the claims made by the asylum seekers, and an email from an ABC researcher made its way into the public domain indicating that some editorial executives doubted the allegations were accurate.This email has given impetus to the broadcaster\u2019s critics who contend the story should not have been broadcast. A spokeswoman for the national broadcaster said: \u201cIn a climate where official information about asylum seeker operations is scarce and hard to come by, the ABC makes no apologies for seeking as much information as it can from as many sources as it can to either verify or disprove the allegations at the centre of the story.\u201dAbbott also reaffirmed his concerns about the ABC's collaboration with Guardian Australia on the story that revealed Australian spy agencies\u2019 past efforts to target the phones of the Indonesian president, his wife and inner circle. Those disclosures were based on documents provided by the former US intelligence contractor Edward Snowden.Abbott\u2019s intervention was amplified in Sydney\u2019s Daily Telegraph newspaper on Thursday with strong page one treatment.The paper quoted Abbott\u2019s key business adviser, and former ABC chairman Maurice Newman as saying: \u201cIn relation to the navy, [the ABC has] given credence to the idea that the navy may well have tortured people \u2026 99% of Australians would think that's highly unlikely. I think [the allegations] are inimical to Australia's best interests.\u201cIt casts doubt on Australia's reputation and I think it's regrettable.\u201dThe communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, however, launched a defence of the ABC. He told Fairfax Media that politicians may have issues with ABC content, but could not tell media outlets what to write.\u201cWhat's the alternative \u2026 the editor-in-chief [of the ABC] becomes the prime minister?\u201d Turnbull said. \u201cPoliticians, whether prime ministers or communications ministers, will often be unhappy with the ABC \u2026 but you can't tell them what to write.'\u201d- with Daniel Hurst", "tags": ["Australian Broadcasting Corporation", "Rupert Murdoch", "Australia news", "Australian politics", "Media", "Asia Pacific", "Julie Bishop", "Tony Abbott", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Coalition", "Labor party", "Indonesia", "Edward Snowden", "Surveillance"], "title": "ABC may lose Australia Network"},{"date": "2014-01-24T07:41:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "\n[if gte mso 9]><xml> <o:OfficeDocumentSettings> <o:AllowPNG/> </o:OfficeDocumentSettings> </xml><![endif] \n[if gte mso 9]><xml> <w:WordDocument> <w:View>Normal</w:View> <w:Zoom>0</w:Zoom> <w:TrackMoves/> <w:TrackFormatting/> <w:PunctuationKerning/> <w:ValidateAgainstSchemas/> <w:SaveIfXMLInvalid>false</w:SaveIfXMLInvalid> <w:IgnoreMixedContent>false</w:IgnoreMixedContent> <w:AlwaysShowPlaceholderText>false</w:AlwaysShowPlaceholderText> <w:DoNotPromoteQF/> <w:LidThemeOther>EN-GB</w:LidThemeOther> <w:LidThemeAsian>JA</w:LidThemeAsian> <w:LidThemeComplexScript>X-NONE</w:LidThemeComplexScript> <w:Compatibility> <w:BreakWrappedTables/> <w:SnapToGridInCell/> <w:WrapTextWithPunct/> <w:UseAsianBreakRules/> <w:DontGrowAutofit/> <w:SplitPgBreakAndParaMark/> <w:EnableOpenTypeKerning/> <w:DontFlipMirrorIndents/> <w:OverrideTableStyleHps/> </w:Compatibility> <m:mathPr> <m:mathFont m:val=\"Cambria Math\"/> <m:brkBin m:val=\"before\"/> <m:brkBinSub m:val=\"&#45;-\"/> <m:smallFrac m:val=\"off\"/> <m:dispDef/> <m:lMargin m:val=\"0\"/> <m:rMargin m:val=\"0\"/> <m:defJc m:val=\"centerGroup\"/> <m:wrapIndent m:val=\"1440\"/> <m:intLim m:val=\"subSup\"/> <m:naryLim m:val=\"undOvr\"/> </m:mathPr></w:WordDocument> </xml><![endif]\n[if gte mso 9]><xml> <w:LatentStyles DefLockedState=\"false\" DefUnhideWhenUsed=\"true\" DefSemiHidden=\"true\" DefQFormat=\"false\" DefPriority=\"99\" LatentStyleCount=\"276\"> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"0\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Normal\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 7\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 8\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 9\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 7\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 8\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 9\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"35\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"caption\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"10\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Title\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"1\" Name=\"Default Paragraph Font\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"11\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Subtitle\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"22\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Strong\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"20\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Emphasis\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"59\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Table Grid\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Placeholder Text\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"1\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"No Spacing\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Revision\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"34\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"List Paragraph\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"29\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Quote\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"30\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Intense Quote\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"19\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Subtle Emphasis\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"21\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Intense Emphasis\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"31\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Subtle Reference\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"32\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Intense Reference\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"33\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Book Title\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"37\" Name=\"Bibliography\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"TOC Heading\"/> </w:LatentStyles> </xml><![endif]The first thing I thought when I saw the artist's impression of the planned Australia 108 skyscraper for Melbourne\u2019s Southbank district was that it reminded me of a Dyson vacuum cleaner. Perhaps it\u2019s the contorted angular form, or the metallic purple spire and detailing. Whatever it is, I wondered whether, like our Dyson DC59 Animal, Australia 108 comes with two-tier radial cyclone technology. Or is its ugliness simply a monument to putting too much trust in computer aided design? Australia 108 will be Melbourne\u2019s tallest building, a fact that isn\u2019t lost on the folks hubristically marketing the project. And while the developer \u2013 Singapore\u2019s Aspial Corporation \u2013 had high hopes of sending it soaring 388 metres above the Yarra, aviation authorities had other ideas.\u00a0Architect Nonda Katsalidis (of Fender Katsalidis) has had to rejig the design, bringing it down a peg or two, to allow planes to make an emergency landing at Essendon without whacking into somebody\u2019s lurid purple balcony.And so Aspial will have to make do with 312 metres instead, still a good 15 metres above the city's current mine-is-bigger-than-yours champion, Eureka Tower at 297m (though 13m shorter than the Gold Coast's Q1). Indeed, Eureka is just down the road from the proposed Australia 108, meaning they will be flopped out almost side-by-side for an easy comparison of size.\u00a0 It is tempting to point the finger at Aspial chief executive Koh Wee Seng. He has been quoted saying he wants his erection to stand among the world\u2019s most iconic. However, somebody should have told Koh that it\u2019s not how big it is, it\u2019s how you use it. And setting out to create an icon never really works out; just look towards James Packer with his Barangaroo casino. Aspial hopes to create a mixed-use development, incorporating apartments, a hotel, and some retail. However this is currently being reviewed. Architecture critic and author Philip Drew believes Australia 108 is \u201ctotally unnecessary.\u201cWhat\u2019s the point of yet another tower claiming it is higher than the rest?\u201d he says. \u201cThe simple fact is that we really do not need buildings more than 10-storeys high, and pushing them up over 300 metres is extremely energy inefficient, highly expensive to maintain, and inconvenient for the people who live in the buildings.\u201d As for the design, Drew is less than impressed: \u201cIt\u2019s a tortured shape, pretending to be a meaningful sculpture,\u201d he says. \u201cWhereas something such as the Willis Tower in Chicago is actually a rational design, this is just junk crying out to be labelled as an icon. It will be Melbourne\u2019s tallest residential building, until some other godawful thing supplants it.\u201d Philip Goad, professor of architecture at the University of Melbourne, believes Australia 108 will make Melbourne\u2019s Southbank almost an equal partner in the visual weight of the city\u2019s overall skyline.\u201cThis has been happening over the last decade where south of the Yarra has now become an almost high-rise residential suburb of Melbourne,\u201d says Goad. \u201cSouthbank is rapidly becoming Melbourne\u2019s Manhattan.\u201d And he believes that Southbank is a city of 21st century where the vertical has precedence over the horizontal. \u201cThat part of Southbank is physically bound by freeways and overpasses, so it is a contained little knot that\u2019s very, very tall. It\u2019s not necessarily my idea of place to live but to many people it will be just across the river from the city proper.\u201d And what does he think of the tower itself? \u201cWell, Nonda Katsalidis's interests are sculptural and so the building is meant to read like a piece of constructivist sculpture,\u201d he says.\u201cI think tall buildings in Australia talk about aspirations for personal legacy at the level of the skyline, and that\u2019s not unusual. It\u2019s interesting thought that once skyscrapers were symbols of corporations. Now they\u2019re no longer that because of the complexity of tenancies. They have become visual landmarks rather than bearers of meaning. It\u2019s no surprise then that the architects these days are treating them like sculptural totems.\u201d ", "tags": ["Architecture", "Melbourne", "Australia news", "Skyscrapers"], "title": "Does Melbourne need Australia 108?"},{"date": "2014-03-23T03:01:25Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Labor will return to government in South Australia with the support of Geoff Brock, an independent MP.Jay Weatherill, the incumbent premier, announced Brock had agreed to support a minority Labor government and would receive a ministry. The announcement comes a week after a state election left Labor with 23 seats and the conservatives with 22, leaving two independents holding the keys to government.\"Mr Brock has chosen the Labor minority government here in South Australia.\"Brock told reporters in Adelaide he had accepted the position of regional development minister in Weatherill's cabinet, as well as responsibility for state and local government relations. \"These portfolios will allow me to provide a voice for regional South Australia,\" Brock said.He has pledged to back the government on issues of confidence or supply but will remain free to vote against Labor on other issues.Brock said fundamental to his decision was the potential instability that could have resulted had he opted to support the Liberals.With Labor holding 23 seats in the 47-seat House of Assembly after the election and the Liberals 22, the balance of power was to rest with Brock and fellow independent MP Bob Such.Labor needed the support of just one independent to form a minority government; the Liberals needed both.But the uncertainty escalated on Saturday when it was revealed that Such was in hospital ahead of surgery on Wednesday and will take up to two months' sick leave.Had Brock sided with the Liberals, it would have left the major parties tied at 23 votes each and the potential for a fresh election to be called.Opposition leader Steven Marshall is yet to respond.South Australian Greens senator Sarah Hanson-Young said: \"Progressive South Australians have had a win today.\" There would have been election fatigue if the state had been forced to go back to the polls, she said.", "tags": ["South Australian politics", "South Australia", "Jay Weatherill", "Labor party", "Australia news"], "title": "Labor to form government in South Australia"},{"date": "2014-03-20T21:13:06Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Are the Greens finished? The Sun Herald\u2019s Andrew Bolt thinks so. \u201cThey are the party for dreamers, not doers,\u201d he says. \u201cPlaying with real power has destroyed them.\u201dWriting in the Conversation, Michelle Grattan says the Greens are now generally on the back foot, widely seen as too hardline and uncompromising. \u201dIt is time for the Greens to do some fundamental thinking about their future.\u201dMost commentary on the Greens\u2019 performance focuses on political and policy specifics: Bob Brown\u2019s resignation, preference deals, power-sharing and so on. There are other explanations.Modern politics is not responding adequately to the contemporary human predicament. Less than a third of Australians think quality of life is getting better; more think it is getting worse. This is a foundational feature of politics today, both transcending it and yet also shaping it, but it is widely ignored by politicians and political commentators.Work and family pressures, greed, consumerism and the cost of living are among the more obvious reasons for this dissatisfaction. But beyond these are deeply existential questions relating to identity, belonging and purpose: who am I? Why am I here?Modern western nations like Australia do poorly in this area, with too much emphasis on transient personal attributes (money, looks, popularity, status), and too little on deep and enduring personal and social relationships.Then there are threats of global warming, biodiversity loss and natural resource depletion (including energy, food and water security) \u2013 all underestimated by governments. Current political priorities are the antithesis of what is needed to achieve a higher quality of life. Even on acknowledged goals, such as creating more employment, Australia is doing badly, with a shortfall of up to 1m jobs. So almost anything done within the political sphere will not be enough.This is the fundamental cause of public disillusion with politics, even if many people don\u2019t fully appreciate it and direct their frustration at specific policies or leaders\u2019 performance. This truth may also be why the Greens, who recognise it better than other parties, have not been able to capitalise on the public\u2019s disquiet. Instead, they have been regarded as just another political party whose policies represent a fairly orthodox progressive/left ideology, one out of favour with the electorate.Thus the Greens are caught on the horns of a dilemma between policy relevance and response effectiveness: between being relevant to mainstream policy debate and advocating responses that match the magnitude of the challenges.Given the limitations of modern politics (including the role of the media) and the public mood, there may not be any way out. However, the Greens could consider shifting their focus away from specific policy questions (while continuing to do this where necessary) towards continually articulating a new narrative: a transformation from the dominant narrative of material progress to one of (authentic) sustainable development.Material progress represents an outdated, industrial model: pump more wealth into one end of the pipeline and more welfare flows out the other. Sustainable development reflects an ecological model, where elements of human society interact in complex, multiple, non-linear ways. Spanning the gap between policy relevance and response effectiveness would require very careful management. To a degree the two have to be kept separate. There is danger in moving too quickly to policy details; on the other hand, policies have to be consistent with, and true to, the new story of human development and progress.The focus should be on relating global threats and challenges more closely to people\u2019s personal lives and wellbeing, on showing that the aims of environmental sustainability and enhanced quality of life are compatible and complementary. More emphasis in environment policy on our dependence on the health and resilience of landscapes, and in health policy on the social determinants of health, are two examples of how this might be done.Addressing such issues requires more than good policies and sufficient funding. They need to become embedded in our culture, including being talked about by leaders in the same way they talk today about the economy and jobs.It would take nerve to do adopt this strategy, but our future rests on transforming political debate, including election campaigns, from the economic and financial accounting competition that it has depressingly become into a contest of competing political philosophies and worldviews.", "tags": ["Australian Greens", "Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "Are the Greens finished in Australia? | Richard Eckersley"},{"date": "2014-02-25T22:13:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "We\u2019ve all done it. We walk down the street and see a homeless guy asking for some small change and we stride straight past avoiding his eye. Or we read about children in Syria being maimed and tortured and quickly flick over the page without a second of thought, continuing to munch on our toast.These kinds of empathy failures are pretty normal. Although the neuroscientists now tell us that 98% of people have the ability to empathise, the reality is that we lead busy, stressful lives, and often feel we don\u2019t have the time or energy to step into other people\u2019s shoes, look at the world from their perspective \u2013 and give them some support. In other words, we fail to bring our neural circuitry to life, so our empathic potential lies dormant.But something more serious is going on: Australia, the lucky country, is losing its empathy. A recent report based on a national survey by the Scanlon Foundation highlights some powerful statistics:What are figures like these telling us? Without anyone really noticing, communities are fracturing and social cohesion being eroded. More and more people are caught up in a culture of hyper-individualism where the question \u201cwhat\u2019s in it for me?\u201d dominates their minds. They are turning their backs on socially marginalised groups such as asylum seekers and becoming less willing to trust others, or listen to the views of people whose beliefs differ from their own \u2013 whether it\u2019s on issues such as climate change or private schools. The big picture is clear: there\u2019s a growing empathy deficit that is creating new levels of social division.In some ways these attitudes are surprising. You might expect them in a country that is suffering chronic economic recession, where people scapegoat immigrants and blame them for their economic woes. But Australia hardly qualifies on these grounds, having done better than most countries to survive the repercussions of the global financial meltdown in 2008. It\u2019s also a little strange for a nation that prides itself on its multiculturalism (of which I am a product, with a mixed heritage including Polish, Croatian, Romanian and Scottish). In fact, 84% of respondents in the Scanlon study said they thought multiculturalism had been good for the country, and 70% believed it benefited the nation economically.On the other hand, it\u2019s clear the prevalent political culture is hardly conducive to creating empathy, even if the past decade has seen growing recognition of the perspectives and rights of Indigenous Australians. Just think how much stereotyping remains a staple of the contemporary political scene. Politicians from across the spectrum frequently refer to asylum seekers as \u201cillegals\u201d \u2013 Tony Abbott\u2019s government decreed that they should be described as such in all official correspondence \u2013 despite the Refugee Council of Australia and the United Nations pointing out that it is an inaccurate term since there is nothing illegal about seeking asylum.\u201cIf you wanted to disenfranchise refugees, and leave the public thinking they have no rights, then call them \u2018illegal\u2019 over and over again,\u201d the former Paul Keating speechwriter Don Watson told me. Politicians, he says, do everything they can to \u201ckeep any kind of empathy at bay\u201d, finding language that \u201cdulls the instinct to ask \u2018What if that were me and my children in one of those boats, or in one of those detention centres?\u2019\u201d Thomas Keneally \u2013 author of the empathic bestseller Schindler\u2019s Ark \u2013 has made similar remarks, commenting on the \u201cracial hysteria\u201d politicians have whipped up against asylum seekers.It is this kind of stereotyping, where we fail to see the real individuals behind the labels we impose on them, that is at the root of the empathy crisis. This empathy decline is not, however, Australia\u2019s alone. Across the western world there is evidence of a growing empathy deficit. A study at the University of Michigan revealed empathy levels in the United States have dropped 48% over the past 40 years, with the steepest fall happening over the last decade. This means that fewer and fewer people are making the effort to extend their moral concern towards strangers, or to take into account the feelings and perspectives of others. In the UK, the empathy deficit is reflected in a chronic decline of social trust. In 1959 60% of people thought most other people could be trusted. That figure has now halved. A creeping, self-centred individualism has become dominant in public culture.It all sounds a bit depressing. But there\u2019s good news. There is a quiet revolution of empathic thinking and social action going on around the globe. With a little imagination, Australians could learn to harness the power of empathy to shift the contours of society. So what does this empathy revolution look like?Intriguingly, empathy is a more popular concept today than at any moment in its history. It\u2019s on the lips of everyone from the Dalai Lama to Barack Obama, from business gurus to happiness experts. Internet searches for the word \u201cempathy\u201d have more than doubled in frequency in the past ten years.A major reason for this surge of interest is because of extraordinary new insights into the science of empathy. For more than three centuries we\u2019ve been fed a dangerous piece of propaganda, which is that human beings are essentially selfish, individualistic creatures. But the scientific consensus has shifted in the last decade. We are also Homo empathicus: alongside our selfish inner drives is a more empathic, co-operative self.Neuroscientists have discovered that almost all of us (exceptions include psychopaths) have a ten-section \u201cempathy-circuit\u201d wired into our brains. Damage part of it and you may be unable to recognise fear or other emotions on someone\u2019s face. Evolutionary biologists have shown this co-operative, empathic self is a trait we share with our primate cousins, such as the hippie-like bonobo chimp. And psychologists have demonstrated that the empathic ability to step into another\u2019s shoes and appreciate that their viewpoint may differ from our own develops in most children by the age of about two.The problem is that we\u2019re still not very skilled at tapping into our full empathic potential. But luckily empathy can be learned, like learning to ride a bike or drive a car. The best place to start is at school. I believe every child should have the right to take part in programmes such as Roots of Empathy, the world\u2019s most successful empathy teaching initiative. Having started in Canada, it has now spread to countries such as New Zealand and Germany, and more than half a million children have done it. How does it work? The teacher is a baby. True. A class of kids adopts a baby for the year, who visits every few weeks with a parent and an instructor from the programme. The children sit around the baby and discuss things such as: why\u2019s the baby crying? Why is the baby laughing? What might she be feeling? This effort to step into the baby\u2019s shoes is then extended outwards. What\u2019s it like to be bullied in the playground, or to be made fun of if you\u2019re in a wheelchair? The results are remarkable. A study in Scotland showed the programme boosted co-operative behaviour in 55% of pupils, decreased bullying and increased academic attainment. Roots of Empathy has been piloted in Western Australia. It\u2019s now time to roll it out across the nation\u2019s classrooms.But we can\u2019t wait 20 years for a new generation of empathic citizens to emerge. We also need to work on ourselves. On a personal level, try having a conversation with a stranger at least once a week. Get beyond superficial chatter and talk about the stuff that really matters in life \u2013 love, family, death or politics. Conversations with strangers are one of the best ways to overcome our prejudices and assumptions about others, and can cure us of making snap stereotyped judgements about people based on appearance or accent. On the political level, we need to generate these kinds of conversations on a mass scale. One inspiring organisation that does this is the Parents Circle, which creates grassroots dialogues between Israelis and Palestinians. One of their most powerful projects was the Hello Peace phone line. Any Israeli citizen could call a free phone number and talk to a Palestinian stranger for up to half an hour, and Palestinians could similarly call Israelis. In its first five years of operation, more than a million calls were made.Just imagine if there were similar phone lines (or online video dialogue projects) across Australia, which created conversations between climate change activists and climate change sceptics, between anti-immigrant advocates and new immigrants themselves, between bombastic politicians and their constituents who feel voiceless; between rich and poor, young and old. It would be the beginning of an empathy revolution. Not an old-fashioned revolution of new laws or policies, but something much more radical: a revolution of human relationships.Roman Krznaric\u2019s new book is Empathy: A Handbook for Revolution. ", "tags": ["Life and style", "Australia news", "Philosophy", "Australian politics", "Books"], "title": "Is Australia losing its empathy?"},{"date": "2014-01-30T01:27:19Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Another signal has emerged that the Abbott government intends to strip the ABC of its international broadcasting service \u2013 the Australia Network \u2013 in a significant concession to Rupert Murdoch and to conservative commentators critical of public broadcasting.The foreign affairs minister, Julie Bishop, has been preparing the public ground since opposition for the ABC to lose its Australia Network regional broadcasting service, which it was awarded by the previous Labor government after a bitterly contested process.In January Bishop criticised the quality of the programming on the Australia Network, and argued it was not serving Australia\u2019s regional interests as \u201ca tool of public diplomacy\u201d.The Australian newspaper reported on Thursday that the service was likely to be scrapped in the May budget as a savings measure. The commission of audit established by the government will also run the ruler over other ABC services.The Sky News network lost out to the ABC in the Australia Network tender process carried out under the previous Labor government. The multimillion-dollar tender was botched due to sharp divisions within Labor over whether the ABC or Sky should emerge with the regional service.Sky, a broadcaster part owned by BSkyB \u2013 a British company controlled by 21st Century Fox, which is a sister company to Murdoch\u2019s Australian publishing arm, News Corp \u2013 has made no secret of its fury about that process, and has lobbied the Coalition to have the ABC\u2019s contract dumped.In its aborted media reform package in early 2013, Labor did manage to legislate a provision where only the ABC or its associated companies could provide \u201ccommonwealth funded international broadcasting services\u201d. It was a means of trying to lock in the ABC\u2019s position regarding the Australian Network after any change of government.The reform suggests the Coalition would need further legislation if it wanted not to bank the saving, but clear the field for a commercial broadcaster. Whether the ABC would need to be compensated for the dumped contract is unclear.The acting opposition leader, Tanya Plibersek, said she did not watch a lot of the Australia Network because she lived in Australia, but believed the channel was providing \u201ca very valuable service\u201d in projecting Australian values to the region.She said the government was \"proposing to cut almost a quarter of a billion dollars\" through the axing of the Australia Network contract, despite signalling before the election that it would not reduce funding to the ABC.Asked whether the Australia Network should reflect support for Australia to achieve the aim of soft diplomacy, Plibersek said freedom of speech was a worthy value to promote.\u201cI'm very happy for the world to see that in Australia you can stand up, you can criticise the government, the government can respond and everybody goes home that night safe and sound,\u201d she said.The Greens leader, Christine Milne, said the Australia Network did an \"outstanding job\" and it would be \"a very bad mistake\" for Abbott to abandon the service.In addition to bruised feelings over the Australia Network process, the Murdoch-owned News Corp is also campaigning to have the ABC pushed out of digital news services. The ABC\u2019s online content is offered free to readers and viewers, and News Corp is one of several publishers arguing the national broadcaster\u2019s ongoing digital expansion threatens their business.News Corp faces further commercial pressure in 2014. The tabloids will face competition in Australia for the first time in many years with the entry of the British-owned Daily Mail \u2013 one of the most successful digital news sites in the world.The prime minister, Tony Abbott, launched a strong public criticism of the ABC on Wednesday during a radio appearance on 2GB in Sydney.Abbott took issue with the ABC's reporting of claims by asylum seekers of mistreatment at the hands of the Australian navy. The prime minister suggested the national broadcaster needed to be more patriotic, and should be inclined to give the navy the benefit of the doubt.The ABC has taken steps to check the accuracy of the claims made by the asylum seekers, and an email from an ABC researcher made its way into the public domain indicating that some editorial executives doubted the allegations were accurate.This email has given impetus to the broadcaster\u2019s critics who contend the story should not have been broadcast. A spokeswoman for the national broadcaster said: \u201cIn a climate where official information about asylum seeker operations is scarce and hard to come by, the ABC makes no apologies for seeking as much information as it can from as many sources as it can to either verify or disprove the allegations at the centre of the story.\u201dAbbott also reaffirmed his concerns about the ABC's collaboration with Guardian Australia on the story that revealed Australian spy agencies\u2019 past efforts to target the phones of the Indonesian president, his wife and inner circle. Those disclosures were based on documents provided by the former US intelligence contractor Edward Snowden.Abbott\u2019s intervention was amplified in Sydney\u2019s Daily Telegraph newspaper on Thursday with strong page one treatment.The paper quoted Abbott\u2019s key business adviser, and former ABC chairman Maurice Newman as saying: \u201cIn relation to the navy, [the ABC has] given credence to the idea that the navy may well have tortured people \u2026 99% of Australians would think that's highly unlikely. I think [the allegations] are inimical to Australia's best interests.\u201cIt casts doubt on Australia's reputation and I think it's regrettable.\u201dThe communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, however, launched a defence of the ABC. He told Fairfax Media that politicians may have issues with ABC content, but could not tell media outlets what to write.\u201cWhat's the alternative \u2026 the editor-in-chief [of the ABC] becomes the prime minister?\u201d Turnbull said. \u201cPoliticians, whether prime ministers or communications ministers, will often be unhappy with the ABC \u2026 but you can't tell them what to write.'\u201d- with Daniel Hurst", "tags": ["Australian Broadcasting Corporation", "Rupert Murdoch", "Australia news", "Australian politics", "Media", "Asia Pacific", "Julie Bishop", "Tony Abbott", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Coalition", "Labor party", "Indonesia", "Edward Snowden", "Surveillance"], "title": "ABC may lose Australia Network"},{"date": "2014-01-24T07:41:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "\n[if gte mso 9]><xml> <o:OfficeDocumentSettings> <o:AllowPNG/> </o:OfficeDocumentSettings> </xml><![endif] \n[if gte mso 9]><xml> <w:WordDocument> <w:View>Normal</w:View> <w:Zoom>0</w:Zoom> <w:TrackMoves/> <w:TrackFormatting/> <w:PunctuationKerning/> <w:ValidateAgainstSchemas/> <w:SaveIfXMLInvalid>false</w:SaveIfXMLInvalid> <w:IgnoreMixedContent>false</w:IgnoreMixedContent> <w:AlwaysShowPlaceholderText>false</w:AlwaysShowPlaceholderText> <w:DoNotPromoteQF/> <w:LidThemeOther>EN-GB</w:LidThemeOther> <w:LidThemeAsian>JA</w:LidThemeAsian> <w:LidThemeComplexScript>X-NONE</w:LidThemeComplexScript> <w:Compatibility> <w:BreakWrappedTables/> <w:SnapToGridInCell/> <w:WrapTextWithPunct/> <w:UseAsianBreakRules/> <w:DontGrowAutofit/> <w:SplitPgBreakAndParaMark/> <w:EnableOpenTypeKerning/> <w:DontFlipMirrorIndents/> <w:OverrideTableStyleHps/> </w:Compatibility> <m:mathPr> <m:mathFont m:val=\"Cambria Math\"/> <m:brkBin m:val=\"before\"/> <m:brkBinSub m:val=\"&#45;-\"/> <m:smallFrac m:val=\"off\"/> <m:dispDef/> <m:lMargin m:val=\"0\"/> <m:rMargin m:val=\"0\"/> <m:defJc m:val=\"centerGroup\"/> <m:wrapIndent m:val=\"1440\"/> <m:intLim m:val=\"subSup\"/> <m:naryLim m:val=\"undOvr\"/> </m:mathPr></w:WordDocument> </xml><![endif]\n[if gte mso 9]><xml> <w:LatentStyles DefLockedState=\"false\" DefUnhideWhenUsed=\"true\" DefSemiHidden=\"true\" DefQFormat=\"false\" DefPriority=\"99\" LatentStyleCount=\"276\"> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"0\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Normal\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 7\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 8\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 9\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 7\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 8\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 9\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"35\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"caption\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"10\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Title\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"1\" Name=\"Default Paragraph Font\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"11\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Subtitle\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"22\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Strong\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"20\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Emphasis\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"59\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Table Grid\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Placeholder Text\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"1\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"No Spacing\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Revision\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"34\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"List Paragraph\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"29\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Quote\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"30\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Intense Quote\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"19\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Subtle Emphasis\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"21\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Intense Emphasis\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"31\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Subtle Reference\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"32\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Intense Reference\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"33\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Book Title\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"37\" Name=\"Bibliography\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"TOC Heading\"/> </w:LatentStyles> </xml><![endif]The first thing I thought when I saw the artist's impression of the planned Australia 108 skyscraper for Melbourne\u2019s Southbank district was that it reminded me of a Dyson vacuum cleaner. Perhaps it\u2019s the contorted angular form, or the metallic purple spire and detailing. Whatever it is, I wondered whether, like our Dyson DC59 Animal, Australia 108 comes with two-tier radial cyclone technology. Or is its ugliness simply a monument to putting too much trust in computer aided design? Australia 108 will be Melbourne\u2019s tallest building, a fact that isn\u2019t lost on the folks hubristically marketing the project. And while the developer \u2013 Singapore\u2019s Aspial Corporation \u2013 had high hopes of sending it soaring 388 metres above the Yarra, aviation authorities had other ideas.\u00a0Architect Nonda Katsalidis (of Fender Katsalidis) has had to rejig the design, bringing it down a peg or two, to allow planes to make an emergency landing at Essendon without whacking into somebody\u2019s lurid purple balcony.And so Aspial will have to make do with 312 metres instead, still a good 15 metres above the city's current mine-is-bigger-than-yours champion, Eureka Tower at 297m (though 13m shorter than the Gold Coast's Q1). Indeed, Eureka is just down the road from the proposed Australia 108, meaning they will be flopped out almost side-by-side for an easy comparison of size.\u00a0 It is tempting to point the finger at Aspial chief executive Koh Wee Seng. He has been quoted saying he wants his erection to stand among the world\u2019s most iconic. However, somebody should have told Koh that it\u2019s not how big it is, it\u2019s how you use it. And setting out to create an icon never really works out; just look towards James Packer with his Barangaroo casino. Aspial hopes to create a mixed-use development, incorporating apartments, a hotel, and some retail. However this is currently being reviewed. Architecture critic and author Philip Drew believes Australia 108 is \u201ctotally unnecessary.\u201cWhat\u2019s the point of yet another tower claiming it is higher than the rest?\u201d he says. \u201cThe simple fact is that we really do not need buildings more than 10-storeys high, and pushing them up over 300 metres is extremely energy inefficient, highly expensive to maintain, and inconvenient for the people who live in the buildings.\u201d As for the design, Drew is less than impressed: \u201cIt\u2019s a tortured shape, pretending to be a meaningful sculpture,\u201d he says. \u201cWhereas something such as the Willis Tower in Chicago is actually a rational design, this is just junk crying out to be labelled as an icon. It will be Melbourne\u2019s tallest residential building, until some other godawful thing supplants it.\u201d Philip Goad, professor of architecture at the University of Melbourne, believes Australia 108 will make Melbourne\u2019s Southbank almost an equal partner in the visual weight of the city\u2019s overall skyline.\u201cThis has been happening over the last decade where south of the Yarra has now become an almost high-rise residential suburb of Melbourne,\u201d says Goad. \u201cSouthbank is rapidly becoming Melbourne\u2019s Manhattan.\u201d And he believes that Southbank is a city of 21st century where the vertical has precedence over the horizontal. \u201cThat part of Southbank is physically bound by freeways and overpasses, so it is a contained little knot that\u2019s very, very tall. It\u2019s not necessarily my idea of place to live but to many people it will be just across the river from the city proper.\u201d And what does he think of the tower itself? \u201cWell, Nonda Katsalidis's interests are sculptural and so the building is meant to read like a piece of constructivist sculpture,\u201d he says.\u201cI think tall buildings in Australia talk about aspirations for personal legacy at the level of the skyline, and that\u2019s not unusual. It\u2019s interesting thought that once skyscrapers were symbols of corporations. Now they\u2019re no longer that because of the complexity of tenancies. They have become visual landmarks rather than bearers of meaning. It\u2019s no surprise then that the architects these days are treating them like sculptural totems.\u201d ", "tags": ["Architecture", "Melbourne", "Australia news", "Skyscrapers"], "title": "Does Melbourne need Australia 108?"},{"date": "2014-03-23T03:01:25Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Labor will return to government in South Australia with the support of Geoff Brock, an independent MP.Jay Weatherill, the incumbent premier, announced Brock had agreed to support a minority Labor government and would receive a ministry. The announcement comes a week after a state election left Labor with 23 seats and the conservatives with 22, leaving two independents holding the keys to government.\"Mr Brock has chosen the Labor minority government here in South Australia.\"Brock told reporters in Adelaide he had accepted the position of regional development minister in Weatherill's cabinet, as well as responsibility for state and local government relations. \"These portfolios will allow me to provide a voice for regional South Australia,\" Brock said.He has pledged to back the government on issues of confidence or supply but will remain free to vote against Labor on other issues.Brock said fundamental to his decision was the potential instability that could have resulted had he opted to support the Liberals.With Labor holding 23 seats in the 47-seat House of Assembly after the election and the Liberals 22, the balance of power was to rest with Brock and fellow independent MP Bob Such.Labor needed the support of just one independent to form a minority government; the Liberals needed both.But the uncertainty escalated on Saturday when it was revealed that Such was in hospital ahead of surgery on Wednesday and will take up to two months' sick leave.Had Brock sided with the Liberals, it would have left the major parties tied at 23 votes each and the potential for a fresh election to be called.Opposition leader Steven Marshall is yet to respond.South Australian Greens senator Sarah Hanson-Young said: \"Progressive South Australians have had a win today.\" There would have been election fatigue if the state had been forced to go back to the polls, she said.", "tags": ["South Australian politics", "South Australia", "Jay Weatherill", "Labor party", "Australia news"], "title": "Labor to form government in South Australia"},{"date": "2014-03-20T21:13:06Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Are the Greens finished? The Sun Herald\u2019s Andrew Bolt thinks so. \u201cThey are the party for dreamers, not doers,\u201d he says. \u201cPlaying with real power has destroyed them.\u201dWriting in the Conversation, Michelle Grattan says the Greens are now generally on the back foot, widely seen as too hardline and uncompromising. \u201dIt is time for the Greens to do some fundamental thinking about their future.\u201dMost commentary on the Greens\u2019 performance focuses on political and policy specifics: Bob Brown\u2019s resignation, preference deals, power-sharing and so on. There are other explanations.Modern politics is not responding adequately to the contemporary human predicament. Less than a third of Australians think quality of life is getting better; more think it is getting worse. This is a foundational feature of politics today, both transcending it and yet also shaping it, but it is widely ignored by politicians and political commentators.Work and family pressures, greed, consumerism and the cost of living are among the more obvious reasons for this dissatisfaction. But beyond these are deeply existential questions relating to identity, belonging and purpose: who am I? Why am I here?Modern western nations like Australia do poorly in this area, with too much emphasis on transient personal attributes (money, looks, popularity, status), and too little on deep and enduring personal and social relationships.Then there are threats of global warming, biodiversity loss and natural resource depletion (including energy, food and water security) \u2013 all underestimated by governments. Current political priorities are the antithesis of what is needed to achieve a higher quality of life. Even on acknowledged goals, such as creating more employment, Australia is doing badly, with a shortfall of up to 1m jobs. So almost anything done within the political sphere will not be enough.This is the fundamental cause of public disillusion with politics, even if many people don\u2019t fully appreciate it and direct their frustration at specific policies or leaders\u2019 performance. This truth may also be why the Greens, who recognise it better than other parties, have not been able to capitalise on the public\u2019s disquiet. Instead, they have been regarded as just another political party whose policies represent a fairly orthodox progressive/left ideology, one out of favour with the electorate.Thus the Greens are caught on the horns of a dilemma between policy relevance and response effectiveness: between being relevant to mainstream policy debate and advocating responses that match the magnitude of the challenges.Given the limitations of modern politics (including the role of the media) and the public mood, there may not be any way out. However, the Greens could consider shifting their focus away from specific policy questions (while continuing to do this where necessary) towards continually articulating a new narrative: a transformation from the dominant narrative of material progress to one of (authentic) sustainable development.Material progress represents an outdated, industrial model: pump more wealth into one end of the pipeline and more welfare flows out the other. Sustainable development reflects an ecological model, where elements of human society interact in complex, multiple, non-linear ways. Spanning the gap between policy relevance and response effectiveness would require very careful management. To a degree the two have to be kept separate. There is danger in moving too quickly to policy details; on the other hand, policies have to be consistent with, and true to, the new story of human development and progress.The focus should be on relating global threats and challenges more closely to people\u2019s personal lives and wellbeing, on showing that the aims of environmental sustainability and enhanced quality of life are compatible and complementary. More emphasis in environment policy on our dependence on the health and resilience of landscapes, and in health policy on the social determinants of health, are two examples of how this might be done.Addressing such issues requires more than good policies and sufficient funding. They need to become embedded in our culture, including being talked about by leaders in the same way they talk today about the economy and jobs.It would take nerve to do adopt this strategy, but our future rests on transforming political debate, including election campaigns, from the economic and financial accounting competition that it has depressingly become into a contest of competing political philosophies and worldviews.", "tags": ["Australian Greens", "Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "Are the Greens finished in Australia? | Richard Eckersley"},{"date": "2014-03-18T01:35:37Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Although Western Australia is a relatively leftwing state it\u2019s also the second most supportive of the government\u2019s \u201cturn back the boats\u201d policy according to a long-running political study.With the upcoming Western Australian Senate election we\u2019re taking a look at where voters in the state, and nationally, sit on various electoral issues. It\u2019s a big read, but stick with it \u2013 this is far more in-depth than your garden variety opinion poll. The Australian Election Study (AES) is an academic study conducted after every Australian federal election since 1987. It\u2019s one of the most comprehensive looks at Australian political attitudes and behaviour through time, and all of the results here are from an analysis of the most recent AES data. For starters, Western Australians consider themselves to be a leftwing state. When asked to place themselves on a scale of 0 (left) to 10 (right) with 5 being centre, Western Australians identify as more leftwing (4.89) compared with the average Australian (5.03). The most leftwing jurisdiction is the ACT at 4.15 and South Australia and Queensland are tied for most rightwing at 5.45.Nationally, Australia is swinging away from the right, dropping from 5.46 in 1996 to 5.03 in 2013. The most important issues for Western Australians in 2013 were management of the economy, education, healthcare and Medicare.And here are the same issues nationally, for comparison:For Western Australians who changed their vote from Labor in 2010 to Liberal in 2013, the issues they were most interested in were economic management, refugees and taxation \u2013 but not the carbon tax. Of those who switched their vote from the incumbent Labor party to the Greens, the environment, education and refugees were the most important issues.This suggests Labor was wedged on asylum seekers. Be prepared to hear a lot more about boats in the coming weeks from the government because it is a more important issue to swinging voters in Western Australia than Australia in general:Most people who shifted their vote from Labor to Liberal agreed with turning back the boats \u2013 71% in Western Australian and 58% nationally. In Western Australia, 51% of those who remained Labor voters in 2013 agreed with turning back the boats. This segment of the Labor vote has been constantly targeted by the Coalition because it can exploit this Labor electoral weakness, hence it remains in our national discourse.If we take the focus off swing voters, over time Australians have started to progressively reject the idea of turning back the boats. For the first time since 2001 there is not majority support to turn back boats carrying asylum seekers.And now, on to electoral issues at the national level, which we could also see play out in the WA re-run.The issues of taxation and unemployment appear not to be as important to voters nationally as they once were, but they may have been reconceptualised by voters as \u201cmanagement of the economy\u201d, something more difficult to pin down and measure.Healthcare has constantly been a high priority at Australian elections in the past two decades, while most issues ebb.Each year over the past two decades Australians who feel that their household finances are getting worse have outnumbered those who think they are improving. The only exception to this was the 2004 election when Australian commodity export prices spiked to 40% of their 1999 prices and the Australian dollar increased from 50 US cents in 2001 to 78 US cents, increasing the overseas purchasing power of Australians. Most Australians believe big business in Australia has too much power at 66% in 2013, while only 45% believe this is true of trade unions. Perception of union power has effectively halved since 1979 when 82% of Australians felt trade unions had too much power compared with 2013. There has been a trend of Australians believing big business has too much power, about 60% in 1967, to 71% in 1998 \u2013 after the waterfront dispute between the Maritime Union of Australia and Patrick Corporation \u2013 remaining stable to 2010 after mining companies spent $22m on a political campaign to water down the Rudd government\u2019s mining tax.There has been a clear trend of declining support for tax cuts, while there has been a marked increase in support for more spending on social services. In 1987 65% of Australians wanted to pay less tax, compared with the low of 34% in 2007 and 36% in 2013. In 1987 15% of Australians wanted more social services which increased to 47% in 2007, before declining to 30% in 2013. A large and growing demographic of Liberal voters want more of a particular social service: healthcare. Some 78% of Liberal voters over the age of 65 want more health expenditure. This has the potential to be Labor\u2019s \u201cstop the boats\u201d issue. In the same demographic of elderly Liberal voters only 24% want to increase social services in general, and 39% want to cut taxes \u2013 but the 78% support for increased health expenditure would drive a wedge between Liberals who do not want to pay for Australia\u2019s ageing population.For the first time there is a question on the issue of same-sex marriage in the study which shows a majority support same-sex marriage, but not to the same extent as previous commercial polling has shown.Respondents were asked to respond to the question, should \u201csame-sex marriages be prohibited?\u201d, and people who agreed with a ban were given a value of 1, neutral a 2, and disagreed a 3. So higher values indicate more support for same-sex marriage. All states and territories have majority support for equal marriage rights because the mean value was above two on this scale. Support is particularly high in the ACT and Tasmania.All AES studies are national, post-election self-completion surveys with a sample drawn randomly from the electoral roll. It is a weighted survey using census data. If you\u2019re interested you can read the monograph outlining methods. The 2013 survey had 3,955 responses. Because there were 14,812,090 people enrolled to vote in 2013 there is 95% confidence that these results are correct within a margin of error about 1.56%. All the results shown here were statistically significant. If you want to access the data you\u2019ll find a copy at the Australian Data Archive, which is explained here.UpdateTo address a few of the comments here\u2019s how the self-identification of WA voters as leftwing squares with recent electoral results:\u201cStrangely Western Australians are more left wing (4.89) than the average Australian (5.03) (0.14) yet they tend to vote for the Liberal in far larger numbers. This is because Western Australians consider the Liberal party to be more centrist (5.93) than the average Australian (6.49)\u201cThe full state-by-state breakdown of political parties is here. ", "tags": ["Western Australia", "Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "Western Australia a left-wing state: analysis"},{"date": "2014-02-25T22:13:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "We\u2019ve all done it. We walk down the street and see a homeless guy asking for some small change and we stride straight past avoiding his eye. Or we read about children in Syria being maimed and tortured and quickly flick over the page without a second of thought, continuing to munch on our toast.These kinds of empathy failures are pretty normal. Although the neuroscientists now tell us that 98% of people have the ability to empathise, the reality is that we lead busy, stressful lives, and often feel we don\u2019t have the time or energy to step into other people\u2019s shoes, look at the world from their perspective \u2013 and give them some support. In other words, we fail to bring our neural circuitry to life, so our empathic potential lies dormant.But something more serious is going on: Australia, the lucky country, is losing its empathy. A recent report based on a national survey by the Scanlon Foundation highlights some powerful statistics:What are figures like these telling us? Without anyone really noticing, communities are fracturing and social cohesion being eroded. More and more people are caught up in a culture of hyper-individualism where the question \u201cwhat\u2019s in it for me?\u201d dominates their minds. They are turning their backs on socially marginalised groups such as asylum seekers and becoming less willing to trust others, or listen to the views of people whose beliefs differ from their own \u2013 whether it\u2019s on issues such as climate change or private schools. The big picture is clear: there\u2019s a growing empathy deficit that is creating new levels of social division.In some ways these attitudes are surprising. You might expect them in a country that is suffering chronic economic recession, where people scapegoat immigrants and blame them for their economic woes. But Australia hardly qualifies on these grounds, having done better than most countries to survive the repercussions of the global financial meltdown in 2008. It\u2019s also a little strange for a nation that prides itself on its multiculturalism (of which I am a product, with a mixed heritage including Polish, Croatian, Romanian and Scottish). In fact, 84% of respondents in the Scanlon study said they thought multiculturalism had been good for the country, and 70% believed it benefited the nation economically.On the other hand, it\u2019s clear the prevalent political culture is hardly conducive to creating empathy, even if the past decade has seen growing recognition of the perspectives and rights of Indigenous Australians. Just think how much stereotyping remains a staple of the contemporary political scene. Politicians from across the spectrum frequently refer to asylum seekers as \u201cillegals\u201d \u2013 Tony Abbott\u2019s government decreed that they should be described as such in all official correspondence \u2013 despite the Refugee Council of Australia and the United Nations pointing out that it is an inaccurate term since there is nothing illegal about seeking asylum.\u201cIf you wanted to disenfranchise refugees, and leave the public thinking they have no rights, then call them \u2018illegal\u2019 over and over again,\u201d the former Paul Keating speechwriter Don Watson told me. Politicians, he says, do everything they can to \u201ckeep any kind of empathy at bay\u201d, finding language that \u201cdulls the instinct to ask \u2018What if that were me and my children in one of those boats, or in one of those detention centres?\u2019\u201d Thomas Keneally \u2013 author of the empathic bestseller Schindler\u2019s Ark \u2013 has made similar remarks, commenting on the \u201cracial hysteria\u201d politicians have whipped up against asylum seekers.It is this kind of stereotyping, where we fail to see the real individuals behind the labels we impose on them, that is at the root of the empathy crisis. This empathy decline is not, however, Australia\u2019s alone. Across the western world there is evidence of a growing empathy deficit. A study at the University of Michigan revealed empathy levels in the United States have dropped 48% over the past 40 years, with the steepest fall happening over the last decade. This means that fewer and fewer people are making the effort to extend their moral concern towards strangers, or to take into account the feelings and perspectives of others. In the UK, the empathy deficit is reflected in a chronic decline of social trust. In 1959 60% of people thought most other people could be trusted. That figure has now halved. A creeping, self-centred individualism has become dominant in public culture.It all sounds a bit depressing. But there\u2019s good news. There is a quiet revolution of empathic thinking and social action going on around the globe. With a little imagination, Australians could learn to harness the power of empathy to shift the contours of society. So what does this empathy revolution look like?Intriguingly, empathy is a more popular concept today than at any moment in its history. It\u2019s on the lips of everyone from the Dalai Lama to Barack Obama, from business gurus to happiness experts. Internet searches for the word \u201cempathy\u201d have more than doubled in frequency in the past ten years.A major reason for this surge of interest is because of extraordinary new insights into the science of empathy. For more than three centuries we\u2019ve been fed a dangerous piece of propaganda, which is that human beings are essentially selfish, individualistic creatures. But the scientific consensus has shifted in the last decade. We are also Homo empathicus: alongside our selfish inner drives is a more empathic, co-operative self.Neuroscientists have discovered that almost all of us (exceptions include psychopaths) have a ten-section \u201cempathy-circuit\u201d wired into our brains. Damage part of it and you may be unable to recognise fear or other emotions on someone\u2019s face. Evolutionary biologists have shown this co-operative, empathic self is a trait we share with our primate cousins, such as the hippie-like bonobo chimp. And psychologists have demonstrated that the empathic ability to step into another\u2019s shoes and appreciate that their viewpoint may differ from our own develops in most children by the age of about two.The problem is that we\u2019re still not very skilled at tapping into our full empathic potential. But luckily empathy can be learned, like learning to ride a bike or drive a car. The best place to start is at school. I believe every child should have the right to take part in programmes such as Roots of Empathy, the world\u2019s most successful empathy teaching initiative. Having started in Canada, it has now spread to countries such as New Zealand and Germany, and more than half a million children have done it. How does it work? The teacher is a baby. True. A class of kids adopts a baby for the year, who visits every few weeks with a parent and an instructor from the programme. The children sit around the baby and discuss things such as: why\u2019s the baby crying? Why is the baby laughing? What might she be feeling? This effort to step into the baby\u2019s shoes is then extended outwards. What\u2019s it like to be bullied in the playground, or to be made fun of if you\u2019re in a wheelchair? The results are remarkable. A study in Scotland showed the programme boosted co-operative behaviour in 55% of pupils, decreased bullying and increased academic attainment. Roots of Empathy has been piloted in Western Australia. It\u2019s now time to roll it out across the nation\u2019s classrooms.But we can\u2019t wait 20 years for a new generation of empathic citizens to emerge. We also need to work on ourselves. On a personal level, try having a conversation with a stranger at least once a week. Get beyond superficial chatter and talk about the stuff that really matters in life \u2013 love, family, death or politics. Conversations with strangers are one of the best ways to overcome our prejudices and assumptions about others, and can cure us of making snap stereotyped judgements about people based on appearance or accent. On the political level, we need to generate these kinds of conversations on a mass scale. One inspiring organisation that does this is the Parents Circle, which creates grassroots dialogues between Israelis and Palestinians. One of their most powerful projects was the Hello Peace phone line. Any Israeli citizen could call a free phone number and talk to a Palestinian stranger for up to half an hour, and Palestinians could similarly call Israelis. In its first five years of operation, more than a million calls were made.Just imagine if there were similar phone lines (or online video dialogue projects) across Australia, which created conversations between climate change activists and climate change sceptics, between anti-immigrant advocates and new immigrants themselves, between bombastic politicians and their constituents who feel voiceless; between rich and poor, young and old. It would be the beginning of an empathy revolution. Not an old-fashioned revolution of new laws or policies, but something much more radical: a revolution of human relationships.Roman Krznaric\u2019s new book is Empathy: A Handbook for Revolution. ", "tags": ["Life and style", "Australia news", "Philosophy", "Australian politics", "Books"], "title": "Is Australia losing its empathy?"},{"date": "2014-01-30T01:27:19Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Another signal has emerged that the Abbott government intends to strip the ABC of its international broadcasting service \u2013 the Australia Network \u2013 in a significant concession to Rupert Murdoch and to conservative commentators critical of public broadcasting.The foreign affairs minister, Julie Bishop, has been preparing the public ground since opposition for the ABC to lose its Australia Network regional broadcasting service, which it was awarded by the previous Labor government after a bitterly contested process.In January Bishop criticised the quality of the programming on the Australia Network, and argued it was not serving Australia\u2019s regional interests as \u201ca tool of public diplomacy\u201d.The Australian newspaper reported on Thursday that the service was likely to be scrapped in the May budget as a savings measure. The commission of audit established by the government will also run the ruler over other ABC services.The Sky News network lost out to the ABC in the Australia Network tender process carried out under the previous Labor government. The multimillion-dollar tender was botched due to sharp divisions within Labor over whether the ABC or Sky should emerge with the regional service.Sky, a broadcaster part owned by BSkyB \u2013 a British company controlled by 21st Century Fox, which is a sister company to Murdoch\u2019s Australian publishing arm, News Corp \u2013 has made no secret of its fury about that process, and has lobbied the Coalition to have the ABC\u2019s contract dumped.In its aborted media reform package in early 2013, Labor did manage to legislate a provision where only the ABC or its associated companies could provide \u201ccommonwealth funded international broadcasting services\u201d. It was a means of trying to lock in the ABC\u2019s position regarding the Australian Network after any change of government.The reform suggests the Coalition would need further legislation if it wanted not to bank the saving, but clear the field for a commercial broadcaster. Whether the ABC would need to be compensated for the dumped contract is unclear.The acting opposition leader, Tanya Plibersek, said she did not watch a lot of the Australia Network because she lived in Australia, but believed the channel was providing \u201ca very valuable service\u201d in projecting Australian values to the region.She said the government was \"proposing to cut almost a quarter of a billion dollars\" through the axing of the Australia Network contract, despite signalling before the election that it would not reduce funding to the ABC.Asked whether the Australia Network should reflect support for Australia to achieve the aim of soft diplomacy, Plibersek said freedom of speech was a worthy value to promote.\u201cI'm very happy for the world to see that in Australia you can stand up, you can criticise the government, the government can respond and everybody goes home that night safe and sound,\u201d she said.The Greens leader, Christine Milne, said the Australia Network did an \"outstanding job\" and it would be \"a very bad mistake\" for Abbott to abandon the service.In addition to bruised feelings over the Australia Network process, the Murdoch-owned News Corp is also campaigning to have the ABC pushed out of digital news services. The ABC\u2019s online content is offered free to readers and viewers, and News Corp is one of several publishers arguing the national broadcaster\u2019s ongoing digital expansion threatens their business.News Corp faces further commercial pressure in 2014. The tabloids will face competition in Australia for the first time in many years with the entry of the British-owned Daily Mail \u2013 one of the most successful digital news sites in the world.The prime minister, Tony Abbott, launched a strong public criticism of the ABC on Wednesday during a radio appearance on 2GB in Sydney.Abbott took issue with the ABC's reporting of claims by asylum seekers of mistreatment at the hands of the Australian navy. The prime minister suggested the national broadcaster needed to be more patriotic, and should be inclined to give the navy the benefit of the doubt.The ABC has taken steps to check the accuracy of the claims made by the asylum seekers, and an email from an ABC researcher made its way into the public domain indicating that some editorial executives doubted the allegations were accurate.This email has given impetus to the broadcaster\u2019s critics who contend the story should not have been broadcast. A spokeswoman for the national broadcaster said: \u201cIn a climate where official information about asylum seeker operations is scarce and hard to come by, the ABC makes no apologies for seeking as much information as it can from as many sources as it can to either verify or disprove the allegations at the centre of the story.\u201dAbbott also reaffirmed his concerns about the ABC's collaboration with Guardian Australia on the story that revealed Australian spy agencies\u2019 past efforts to target the phones of the Indonesian president, his wife and inner circle. Those disclosures were based on documents provided by the former US intelligence contractor Edward Snowden.Abbott\u2019s intervention was amplified in Sydney\u2019s Daily Telegraph newspaper on Thursday with strong page one treatment.The paper quoted Abbott\u2019s key business adviser, and former ABC chairman Maurice Newman as saying: \u201cIn relation to the navy, [the ABC has] given credence to the idea that the navy may well have tortured people \u2026 99% of Australians would think that's highly unlikely. I think [the allegations] are inimical to Australia's best interests.\u201cIt casts doubt on Australia's reputation and I think it's regrettable.\u201dThe communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, however, launched a defence of the ABC. He told Fairfax Media that politicians may have issues with ABC content, but could not tell media outlets what to write.\u201cWhat's the alternative \u2026 the editor-in-chief [of the ABC] becomes the prime minister?\u201d Turnbull said. \u201cPoliticians, whether prime ministers or communications ministers, will often be unhappy with the ABC \u2026 but you can't tell them what to write.'\u201d- with Daniel Hurst", "tags": ["Australian Broadcasting Corporation", "Rupert Murdoch", "Australia news", "Australian politics", "Media", "Asia Pacific", "Julie Bishop", "Tony Abbott", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Coalition", "Labor party", "Indonesia", "Edward Snowden", "Surveillance"], "title": "ABC may lose Australia Network"},{"date": "2014-01-24T07:41:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "\n[if gte mso 9]><xml> <o:OfficeDocumentSettings> <o:AllowPNG/> </o:OfficeDocumentSettings> </xml><![endif] \n[if gte mso 9]><xml> <w:WordDocument> <w:View>Normal</w:View> <w:Zoom>0</w:Zoom> <w:TrackMoves/> <w:TrackFormatting/> <w:PunctuationKerning/> <w:ValidateAgainstSchemas/> <w:SaveIfXMLInvalid>false</w:SaveIfXMLInvalid> <w:IgnoreMixedContent>false</w:IgnoreMixedContent> <w:AlwaysShowPlaceholderText>false</w:AlwaysShowPlaceholderText> <w:DoNotPromoteQF/> <w:LidThemeOther>EN-GB</w:LidThemeOther> <w:LidThemeAsian>JA</w:LidThemeAsian> <w:LidThemeComplexScript>X-NONE</w:LidThemeComplexScript> <w:Compatibility> <w:BreakWrappedTables/> <w:SnapToGridInCell/> <w:WrapTextWithPunct/> <w:UseAsianBreakRules/> <w:DontGrowAutofit/> <w:SplitPgBreakAndParaMark/> <w:EnableOpenTypeKerning/> <w:DontFlipMirrorIndents/> <w:OverrideTableStyleHps/> </w:Compatibility> <m:mathPr> <m:mathFont m:val=\"Cambria Math\"/> <m:brkBin m:val=\"before\"/> <m:brkBinSub m:val=\"&#45;-\"/> <m:smallFrac m:val=\"off\"/> <m:dispDef/> <m:lMargin m:val=\"0\"/> <m:rMargin m:val=\"0\"/> <m:defJc m:val=\"centerGroup\"/> <m:wrapIndent m:val=\"1440\"/> <m:intLim m:val=\"subSup\"/> <m:naryLim m:val=\"undOvr\"/> </m:mathPr></w:WordDocument> </xml><![endif]\n[if gte mso 9]><xml> <w:LatentStyles DefLockedState=\"false\" DefUnhideWhenUsed=\"true\" DefSemiHidden=\"true\" DefQFormat=\"false\" DefPriority=\"99\" LatentStyleCount=\"276\"> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"0\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Normal\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 7\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 8\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"9\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"heading 9\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 7\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 8\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" Name=\"toc 9\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"35\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"caption\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"10\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Title\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"1\" Name=\"Default Paragraph Font\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"11\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Subtitle\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"22\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Strong\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"20\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Emphasis\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"59\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Table Grid\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Placeholder Text\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"1\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"No Spacing\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Revision\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"34\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"List Paragraph\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"29\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Quote\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"30\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Intense Quote\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 1\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 2\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 3\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 4\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 5\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"60\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Shading Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"61\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light List Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"62\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Light Grid Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"63\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 1 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"64\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Shading 2 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"65\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 1 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"66\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium List 2 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"67\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 1 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"68\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 2 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"69\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Medium Grid 3 Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"70\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Dark List Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"71\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Shading Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"72\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful List Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"73\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" Name=\"Colorful Grid Accent 6\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"19\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Subtle Emphasis\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"21\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Intense Emphasis\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"31\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Subtle Reference\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"32\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Intense Reference\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"33\" SemiHidden=\"false\" UnhideWhenUsed=\"false\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"Book Title\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"37\" Name=\"Bibliography\"/> <w:LsdException Locked=\"false\" Priority=\"39\" QFormat=\"true\" Name=\"TOC Heading\"/> </w:LatentStyles> </xml><![endif]The first thing I thought when I saw the artist's impression of the planned Australia 108 skyscraper for Melbourne\u2019s Southbank district was that it reminded me of a Dyson vacuum cleaner. Perhaps it\u2019s the contorted angular form, or the metallic purple spire and detailing. Whatever it is, I wondered whether, like our Dyson DC59 Animal, Australia 108 comes with two-tier radial cyclone technology. Or is its ugliness simply a monument to putting too much trust in computer aided design? Australia 108 will be Melbourne\u2019s tallest building, a fact that isn\u2019t lost on the folks hubristically marketing the project. And while the developer \u2013 Singapore\u2019s Aspial Corporation \u2013 had high hopes of sending it soaring 388 metres above the Yarra, aviation authorities had other ideas.\u00a0Architect Nonda Katsalidis (of Fender Katsalidis) has had to rejig the design, bringing it down a peg or two, to allow planes to make an emergency landing at Essendon without whacking into somebody\u2019s lurid purple balcony.And so Aspial will have to make do with 312 metres instead, still a good 15 metres above the city's current mine-is-bigger-than-yours champion, Eureka Tower at 297m (though 13m shorter than the Gold Coast's Q1). Indeed, Eureka is just down the road from the proposed Australia 108, meaning they will be flopped out almost side-by-side for an easy comparison of size.\u00a0 It is tempting to point the finger at Aspial chief executive Koh Wee Seng. He has been quoted saying he wants his erection to stand among the world\u2019s most iconic. However, somebody should have told Koh that it\u2019s not how big it is, it\u2019s how you use it. And setting out to create an icon never really works out; just look towards James Packer with his Barangaroo casino. Aspial hopes to create a mixed-use development, incorporating apartments, a hotel, and some retail. However this is currently being reviewed. Architecture critic and author Philip Drew believes Australia 108 is \u201ctotally unnecessary.\u201cWhat\u2019s the point of yet another tower claiming it is higher than the rest?\u201d he says. \u201cThe simple fact is that we really do not need buildings more than 10-storeys high, and pushing them up over 300 metres is extremely energy inefficient, highly expensive to maintain, and inconvenient for the people who live in the buildings.\u201d As for the design, Drew is less than impressed: \u201cIt\u2019s a tortured shape, pretending to be a meaningful sculpture,\u201d he says. \u201cWhereas something such as the Willis Tower in Chicago is actually a rational design, this is just junk crying out to be labelled as an icon. It will be Melbourne\u2019s tallest residential building, until some other godawful thing supplants it.\u201d Philip Goad, professor of architecture at the University of Melbourne, believes Australia 108 will make Melbourne\u2019s Southbank almost an equal partner in the visual weight of the city\u2019s overall skyline.\u201cThis has been happening over the last decade where south of the Yarra has now become an almost high-rise residential suburb of Melbourne,\u201d says Goad. \u201cSouthbank is rapidly becoming Melbourne\u2019s Manhattan.\u201d And he believes that Southbank is a city of 21st century where the vertical has precedence over the horizontal. \u201cThat part of Southbank is physically bound by freeways and overpasses, so it is a contained little knot that\u2019s very, very tall. It\u2019s not necessarily my idea of place to live but to many people it will be just across the river from the city proper.\u201d And what does he think of the tower itself? \u201cWell, Nonda Katsalidis's interests are sculptural and so the building is meant to read like a piece of constructivist sculpture,\u201d he says.\u201cI think tall buildings in Australia talk about aspirations for personal legacy at the level of the skyline, and that\u2019s not unusual. It\u2019s interesting thought that once skyscrapers were symbols of corporations. Now they\u2019re no longer that because of the complexity of tenancies. They have become visual landmarks rather than bearers of meaning. It\u2019s no surprise then that the architects these days are treating them like sculptural totems.\u201d ", "tags": ["Architecture", "Melbourne", "Australia news", "Skyscrapers"], "title": "Does Melbourne need Australia 108?"},{"date": "2014-03-23T03:01:25Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Labor will return to government in South Australia with the support of Geoff Brock, an independent MP.Jay Weatherill, the incumbent premier, announced Brock had agreed to support a minority Labor government and would receive a ministry. The announcement comes a week after a state election left Labor with 23 seats and the conservatives with 22, leaving two independents holding the keys to government.\"Mr Brock has chosen the Labor minority government here in South Australia.\"Brock told reporters in Adelaide he had accepted the position of regional development minister in Weatherill's cabinet, as well as responsibility for state and local government relations. \"These portfolios will allow me to provide a voice for regional South Australia,\" Brock said.He has pledged to back the government on issues of confidence or supply but will remain free to vote against Labor on other issues.Brock said fundamental to his decision was the potential instability that could have resulted had he opted to support the Liberals.With Labor holding 23 seats in the 47-seat House of Assembly after the election and the Liberals 22, the balance of power was to rest with Brock and fellow independent MP Bob Such.Labor needed the support of just one independent to form a minority government; the Liberals needed both.But the uncertainty escalated on Saturday when it was revealed that Such was in hospital ahead of surgery on Wednesday and will take up to two months' sick leave.Had Brock sided with the Liberals, it would have left the major parties tied at 23 votes each and the potential for a fresh election to be called.Opposition leader Steven Marshall is yet to respond.South Australian Greens senator Sarah Hanson-Young said: \"Progressive South Australians have had a win today.\" There would have been election fatigue if the state had been forced to go back to the polls, she said.", "tags": ["South Australian politics", "South Australia", "Jay Weatherill", "Labor party", "Australia news"], "title": "Labor to form government in South Australia"},{"date": "2014-03-20T21:13:06Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Are the Greens finished? The Sun Herald\u2019s Andrew Bolt thinks so. \u201cThey are the party for dreamers, not doers,\u201d he says. \u201cPlaying with real power has destroyed them.\u201dWriting in the Conversation, Michelle Grattan says the Greens are now generally on the back foot, widely seen as too hardline and uncompromising. \u201dIt is time for the Greens to do some fundamental thinking about their future.\u201dMost commentary on the Greens\u2019 performance focuses on political and policy specifics: Bob Brown\u2019s resignation, preference deals, power-sharing and so on. There are other explanations.Modern politics is not responding adequately to the contemporary human predicament. Less than a third of Australians think quality of life is getting better; more think it is getting worse. This is a foundational feature of politics today, both transcending it and yet also shaping it, but it is widely ignored by politicians and political commentators.Work and family pressures, greed, consumerism and the cost of living are among the more obvious reasons for this dissatisfaction. But beyond these are deeply existential questions relating to identity, belonging and purpose: who am I? Why am I here?Modern western nations like Australia do poorly in this area, with too much emphasis on transient personal attributes (money, looks, popularity, status), and too little on deep and enduring personal and social relationships.Then there are threats of global warming, biodiversity loss and natural resource depletion (including energy, food and water security) \u2013 all underestimated by governments. Current political priorities are the antithesis of what is needed to achieve a higher quality of life. Even on acknowledged goals, such as creating more employment, Australia is doing badly, with a shortfall of up to 1m jobs. So almost anything done within the political sphere will not be enough.This is the fundamental cause of public disillusion with politics, even if many people don\u2019t fully appreciate it and direct their frustration at specific policies or leaders\u2019 performance. This truth may also be why the Greens, who recognise it better than other parties, have not been able to capitalise on the public\u2019s disquiet. Instead, they have been regarded as just another political party whose policies represent a fairly orthodox progressive/left ideology, one out of favour with the electorate.Thus the Greens are caught on the horns of a dilemma between policy relevance and response effectiveness: between being relevant to mainstream policy debate and advocating responses that match the magnitude of the challenges.Given the limitations of modern politics (including the role of the media) and the public mood, there may not be any way out. However, the Greens could consider shifting their focus away from specific policy questions (while continuing to do this where necessary) towards continually articulating a new narrative: a transformation from the dominant narrative of material progress to one of (authentic) sustainable development.Material progress represents an outdated, industrial model: pump more wealth into one end of the pipeline and more welfare flows out the other. Sustainable development reflects an ecological model, where elements of human society interact in complex, multiple, non-linear ways. Spanning the gap between policy relevance and response effectiveness would require very careful management. To a degree the two have to be kept separate. There is danger in moving too quickly to policy details; on the other hand, policies have to be consistent with, and true to, the new story of human development and progress.The focus should be on relating global threats and challenges more closely to people\u2019s personal lives and wellbeing, on showing that the aims of environmental sustainability and enhanced quality of life are compatible and complementary. More emphasis in environment policy on our dependence on the health and resilience of landscapes, and in health policy on the social determinants of health, are two examples of how this might be done.Addressing such issues requires more than good policies and sufficient funding. They need to become embedded in our culture, including being talked about by leaders in the same way they talk today about the economy and jobs.It would take nerve to do adopt this strategy, but our future rests on transforming political debate, including election campaigns, from the economic and financial accounting competition that it has depressingly become into a contest of competing political philosophies and worldviews.", "tags": ["Australian Greens", "Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "Are the Greens finished in Australia? | Richard Eckersley"},{"date": "2014-03-18T01:35:37Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Although Western Australia is a relatively leftwing state it\u2019s also the second most supportive of the government\u2019s \u201cturn back the boats\u201d policy according to a long-running political study.With the upcoming Western Australian Senate election we\u2019re taking a look at where voters in the state, and nationally, sit on various electoral issues. It\u2019s a big read, but stick with it \u2013 this is far more in-depth than your garden variety opinion poll. The Australian Election Study (AES) is an academic study conducted after every Australian federal election since 1987. It\u2019s one of the most comprehensive looks at Australian political attitudes and behaviour through time, and all of the results here are from an analysis of the most recent AES data. For starters, Western Australians consider themselves to be a leftwing state. When asked to place themselves on a scale of 0 (left) to 10 (right) with 5 being centre, Western Australians identify as more leftwing (4.89) compared with the average Australian (5.03). The most leftwing jurisdiction is the ACT at 4.15 and South Australia and Queensland are tied for most rightwing at 5.45.Nationally, Australia is swinging away from the right, dropping from 5.46 in 1996 to 5.03 in 2013. The most important issues for Western Australians in 2013 were management of the economy, education, healthcare and Medicare.And here are the same issues nationally, for comparison:For Western Australians who changed their vote from Labor in 2010 to Liberal in 2013, the issues they were most interested in were economic management, refugees and taxation \u2013 but not the carbon tax. Of those who switched their vote from the incumbent Labor party to the Greens, the environment, education and refugees were the most important issues.This suggests Labor was wedged on asylum seekers. Be prepared to hear a lot more about boats in the coming weeks from the government because it is a more important issue to swinging voters in Western Australia than Australia in general:Most people who shifted their vote from Labor to Liberal agreed with turning back the boats \u2013 71% in Western Australian and 58% nationally. In Western Australia, 51% of those who remained Labor voters in 2013 agreed with turning back the boats. This segment of the Labor vote has been constantly targeted by the Coalition because it can exploit this Labor electoral weakness, hence it remains in our national discourse.If we take the focus off swing voters, over time Australians have started to progressively reject the idea of turning back the boats. For the first time since 2001 there is not majority support to turn back boats carrying asylum seekers.And now, on to electoral issues at the national level, which we could also see play out in the WA re-run.The issues of taxation and unemployment appear not to be as important to voters nationally as they once were, but they may have been reconceptualised by voters as \u201cmanagement of the economy\u201d, something more difficult to pin down and measure.Healthcare has constantly been a high priority at Australian elections in the past two decades, while most issues ebb.Each year over the past two decades Australians who feel that their household finances are getting worse have outnumbered those who think they are improving. The only exception to this was the 2004 election when Australian commodity export prices spiked to 40% of their 1999 prices and the Australian dollar increased from 50 US cents in 2001 to 78 US cents, increasing the overseas purchasing power of Australians. Most Australians believe big business in Australia has too much power at 66% in 2013, while only 45% believe this is true of trade unions. Perception of union power has effectively halved since 1979 when 82% of Australians felt trade unions had too much power compared with 2013. There has been a trend of Australians believing big business has too much power, about 60% in 1967, to 71% in 1998 \u2013 after the waterfront dispute between the Maritime Union of Australia and Patrick Corporation \u2013 remaining stable to 2010 after mining companies spent $22m on a political campaign to water down the Rudd government\u2019s mining tax.There has been a clear trend of declining support for tax cuts, while there has been a marked increase in support for more spending on social services. In 1987 65% of Australians wanted to pay less tax, compared with the low of 34% in 2007 and 36% in 2013. In 1987 15% of Australians wanted more social services which increased to 47% in 2007, before declining to 30% in 2013. A large and growing demographic of Liberal voters want more of a particular social service: healthcare. Some 78% of Liberal voters over the age of 65 want more health expenditure. This has the potential to be Labor\u2019s \u201cstop the boats\u201d issue. In the same demographic of elderly Liberal voters only 24% want to increase social services in general, and 39% want to cut taxes \u2013 but the 78% support for increased health expenditure would drive a wedge between Liberals who do not want to pay for Australia\u2019s ageing population.For the first time there is a question on the issue of same-sex marriage in the study which shows a majority support same-sex marriage, but not to the same extent as previous commercial polling has shown.Respondents were asked to respond to the question, should \u201csame-sex marriages be prohibited?\u201d, and people who agreed with a ban were given a value of 1, neutral a 2, and disagreed a 3. So higher values indicate more support for same-sex marriage. All states and territories have majority support for equal marriage rights because the mean value was above two on this scale. Support is particularly high in the ACT and Tasmania.All AES studies are national, post-election self-completion surveys with a sample drawn randomly from the electoral roll. It is a weighted survey using census data. If you\u2019re interested you can read the monograph outlining methods. The 2013 survey had 3,955 responses. Because there were 14,812,090 people enrolled to vote in 2013 there is 95% confidence that these results are correct within a margin of error about 1.56%. All the results shown here were statistically significant. If you want to access the data you\u2019ll find a copy at the Australian Data Archive, which is explained here.UpdateTo address a few of the comments here\u2019s how the self-identification of WA voters as leftwing squares with recent electoral results:\u201cStrangely Western Australians are more left wing (4.89) than the average Australian (5.03) (0.14) yet they tend to vote for the Liberal in far larger numbers. This is because Western Australians consider the Liberal party to be more centrist (5.93) than the average Australian (6.49)\u201cThe full state-by-state breakdown of political parties is here. ", "tags": ["Western Australia", "Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "Western Australia a left-wing state: analysis"},{"date": "2014-03-11T19:00:32Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A young man in shades is being interviewed. The conversation, airing on an old black-and-white TV, runs like this: \"Do you think purchasing Aboriginal art is an act of cultural reconciliation?\" \"Uh, no.\" \"Are you sure about that?\" \"Uh, no.\" \"So it is reconciliatory?\" \"Uh, yes.\" \"In what way?\" \"I hadn't thought about it.\"The video, created by Tess Allas, Charlie Schneider and Vernon Ah Kee, is a parody of the TV interviews given by Andy Warhol in which he rotated three responses: \"Uh, yes\", \"Uh, no\" and \"I hadn't thought about it\".The work is part of Four Rooms, an exhibition at Tandanya, the National Aboriginal Cultural Institute in Adelaide. Tandanya usually shows more traditional indigenous arts, but for the duration of the Adelaide festival it has been transformed into a Factory-like environment of silver walls, popcorn machines and vintage sofas. There are posters that state \"Let's be polite about Aboriginal art\" and reproductions of Warhol's soap boxes that substitute Brillo for a contemporaneous Australian brand, Nulla Nulla. The latter's packaging features an Aboriginal woman in a breastplate being beaten with wooden spoons beneath the line: \"Knocks dirt on the head.\"Playing the Warhol part in the video is Vernon Ah Kee, whose surfboards decorated with sacred Aboriginal designs have earned him rock-star status in Australia. He's the only visual artist here who also took part in the Royal Academy's survey of Australian art in London last year. It's fair to say that the critical response wasn't kind. Writing in the Sunday Times, Waldemar Januszczak likened John Olsen's Sydney Sun, an iconic abstract painting, to \"a cascade of diarrhoea\". Brian Sewell dismissed the Aboriginal pieces as \"stale rejiggings of a half-remembered heritage wrecked by European alcohol\". The Guardian's Adrian Searle was more balanced, but had to concede that the representation of Australian art from the 1960s to the present day was piecemeal and unsatisfactory.The curator of Four Rooms, Troy-Anthony Baylis, suggests that the whole notion of cramming a continent into an institution was misguided. The first thing visitors to the RA were presented with was an acknowledged masterpiece of modern Aboriginal painting, Anwerlarr Anganenty (Big Yam Dreaming), created by Emily Kame Kngwarreye at the age of 85. \"When I see photographs of Emily Kame Kngwarreye painting those huge canvases outdoors in wide-open spaces,\" says Baylis, \"it reminds me of the drive-in cinemas I used to go to as a kid. These paintings are not pictorial representations of the landscape, they are part of the landscape itself. Displacing them to the white walls and artificial lighting of a gallery is like putting a lion in a cage.\"Baylis is a gay, cross-dressing blue-haired performance artist of Irish and Aboriginal descent who still travels to Brighton once a year to visit the widow of his friend Leigh Bowery. He didn't see the RA show on his last trip, nor did he particularly want to. \"I have no personal disregard for the 19th century paintings that made up the bulk of that show,\" he says. \"But they're so indebted to European styles and schools of thought, I don't really think of them as Australian art at all.\"Nick Mitzevich, director of the Art Gallery of South Australia, adds: \"It was a pity that Australian critics seemed to take their lead from their British counterparts. But on a personal level, I was proud that a significant selection of works from this museum were made available to audiences on the other side of the world.\"Mitzevich is also the curator of Dark Heart, the 2014 biennial of new Australian art. \"I called the exhibition Dark Heart because, for me, the most exciting artists today are those interested in representing the underbelly of Australian culture,\" he says. \"I wanted to show work that represents a young country still healing from the wounds of its frankly brutal colonial past.\"Mitzevich points out that Australia is a country in which one in two members of the population were born overseas, or have at least one parent who was. Yet the migrant dream is succinctly exploded by Alex Seton's work Someone Died Trying to Have a Life Like Mine, which features an array of limp lifejackets strewn across the gallery floor. It's a reference to an incident from last May, in which 28 empty lifejackets washed up on the shore of the Cocos Islands off Western Australia. It comes as quite a shock when you realise the jackets have actually been carved from solid marble. Wombeyan marble from Queensland, to be specific, which itself seems to challenge the Eurocentric assumption that sculptural-grade marble must come from Carrara.Yet there is one work that seems to outstrip everything the RA attempted. It's by Ben Quilty, generally reckoned to be the finest of Australia's young painters with a solo exhibition coming up at the Saatchi Gallery in London in July. For Dark Heart he has created a vast, symmetrical, butterfly-shaped blob formed by slathering an eight metre canvas in acrylic and folding it in half. Its title, The Island, pays homage to the Tasmanian views of the great 19th-century Australian landscape painter Haughton Forrest, and has been executed with a confrontational messiness in which European history painting, Aboriginal art and contemporary surf culture slide into a viscous mix. There's horror within it, like smeared entrails, but great beauty as well. It's too big. It defies comprehension. It's a Rorschach test that opens up the subconscious of Australia.\u2022 The Adelaide festival runs until 16 March. Alfred Hickling's flights were provided by Emirates", "tags": ["Art", "Painting", "Sculpture", "Art and design", "Royal Academy of Arts", "Adelaide festival 2014", "Culture", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Art from the 'Dark Heart' of Australia"},{"date": "2014-06-04T03:05:23Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Welcome to Guardian Masterclasses Australia \u2013 a unique program of learning embedded within one of the world\u2019s most forward-thinking media organisations.Masterclasses offer a broad range of courses across a variety of disciplines from creative writing, journalism, photography and design, digital media, music and cultural appreciation.Harnessing the expertise and specialisms within the organisation, our courses are led by first class and award-winning Guardian professionals whilst also drawing on the skills and expertise of other leading figures at the forefront of the creative and digital industries.The program is aimed at anyone interested in personal or professional development whether that be refining your skills, focusing your ambition or simply broadening your mind and gaining inspiration.Explore the full range of available masterclasses or view the calendar for all our upcoming courses.You can also register your details and we\u2019ll keep you posted about additions to our exciting programme of events.We look forward to inspiring you.If you have any questions about the Guardian Masterclass Australia programme, please contact us by email at masterclasses.australia@theguardian.com, or by telephone on 02 80768431.Alternatively you can write to:Guardian Masterclasses AustraliaGuardian News and MediaLevel 2, 19 Foster StreetSurry HillsNSW 2010", "tags": ["Guardian Masterclasses Australia"], "title": "About Guardian Masterclasses Australia"},{"date": "2014-06-04T03:05:23Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Welcome to Guardian Masterclasses Australia \u2013 a unique program of learning embedded within one of the world\u2019s most forward-thinking media organisations.Masterclasses offer a broad range of courses across a variety of disciplines from creative writing, journalism, photography and design, digital media, music and cultural appreciation.Harnessing the expertise and specialisms within the organisation, our courses are led by first class and award-winning Guardian professionals whilst also drawing on the skills and expertise of other leading figures at the forefront of the creative and digital industries.The program is aimed at anyone interested in personal or professional development whether that be refining your skills, focusing your ambition or simply broadening your mind and gaining inspiration.Explore the full range of available masterclasses or view the calendar for all our upcoming courses.You can also register your details and we\u2019ll keep you posted about additions to our exciting programme of events.We look forward to inspiring you.If you have any questions about the Guardian Masterclass Australia programme, please contact us by email at masterclasses.australia@theguardian.com, or by telephone on 02 80768431.Alternatively you can write to:Guardian Masterclasses AustraliaGuardian News and MediaLevel 2, 19 Foster StreetSurry HillsNSW 2010", "tags": ["Guardian Masterclasses Australia"], "title": "About Guardian Masterclasses Australia"},{"date": "2014-05-07T01:45:28Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last week, the federal government\u2019s Commission of Audit report recommended there was no longer much point in funding community radio. When this annual call strikes up, the detractors cry: \u201cIt\u2019s tired, it\u2019s over, the model is done. Quit giving them cash.\u201d The same people often snigger when imagining a community radio announcer. Let\u2019s call him Crispin. In their minds, Crispin sits in a dark studio in faded brown corduroy trousers, shiny at the knees, broadcasting to three like-minded souls. He plays Horst Janowski\u2019s A Walk In The Black Forest on repeat and his stale breath smells of Nescafe Blend 43 from the communal kitchen. With three sugars, thanks.For most community radio stations in Australia today, this cliche couldn\u2019t be further from the truth. It hasn\u2019t been for years. But nor are they living high on the hog, siphoning their funding into extravagant lunches while quaffing champagne and taking kickbacks. These stations are not-for-profit organisations and, beyond the bare-bones skeleton staff, are usually manned by volunteers. While most of us are busy sitting on our arses of an evening watching Masterchef or live tweeting the latest episode of My Kitchen Rules, these people give their time and effort for free because they care about their community and care about encouraging voices outside mainstream media. I owe my career to community radio. The same, I suspect, can be said for many media types who now work for both national and commercial broadcasters. Without community radio, where else are you going to get hands-on experience? Most people don\u2019t walk straight into a job at the ABC the minute they get a hankering to do late-night love song dedications. It\u2019s not that simple. And goodness knows, looking back I\u2019m surprised anyone encouraged this confused young thing who trounced into Triple R in Melbourne wearing seven different subcultural signifiers because I couldn't commit to one look. The blue-blonde streak in the front of my hair really said something important at the time. I just can\u2019t remember what it was. Nevertheless, I was given a chance. My first proper gig was the overnight shift, from 1am to 6am, with two other unlikely lads (I suspect we were paired up to keep each other awake; there\u2019s safety in numbers, hence less chance of dead air). I was so nervous I nearly froze before pressing play on a Sonic Youth CD that I\u2019d brought in especially because I thought it would be cool enough. I didn\u2019t know what I was doing but I was doing it. I\u2019ve been addicted to the medium ever since. I had no formal training before this. I hadn\u2019t studied media at university. Yet I was welcomed, trained, encouraged, included. I felt part of a community. And I learnt along the way from seasoned professionals willing to share their knowledge. Community radio stations don\u2019t sit around wasting the little money they\u2019re given, I can assure you. In fact, they can teach the rest of us how to survive in tougher economic times because they\u2019ve always run on not even the smell of an oily rag, just a picture of one. Without much money to play with, community radio still manages to give. Which is more than can be said for most of us.", "tags": ["Radio", "National Commission", "Australia news"], "title": "Australia needs community radio | Myf Warhurst"},{"date": "2014-06-04T03:05:23Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Welcome to Guardian Masterclasses Australia \u2013 a unique program of learning embedded within one of the world\u2019s most forward-thinking media organisations.Masterclasses offer a broad range of courses across a variety of disciplines from creative writing, journalism, photography and design, digital media, music and cultural appreciation.Harnessing the expertise and specialisms within the organisation, our courses are led by first class and award-winning Guardian professionals whilst also drawing on the skills and expertise of other leading figures at the forefront of the creative and digital industries.The program is aimed at anyone interested in personal or professional development whether that be refining your skills, focusing your ambition or simply broadening your mind and gaining inspiration.Explore the full range of available masterclasses or view the calendar for all our upcoming courses.You can also register your details and we\u2019ll keep you posted about additions to our exciting programme of events.We look forward to inspiring you.If you have any questions about the Guardian Masterclass Australia programme, please contact us by email at masterclasses.australia@theguardian.com, or by telephone on 02 80768431.Alternatively you can write to:Guardian Masterclasses AustraliaGuardian News and MediaLevel 2, 19 Foster StreetSurry HillsNSW 2010", "tags": ["Guardian Masterclasses Australia"], "title": "About Guardian Masterclasses Australia"},{"date": "2014-05-07T01:45:28Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last week, the federal government\u2019s Commission of Audit report recommended there was no longer much point in funding community radio. When this annual call strikes up, the detractors cry: \u201cIt\u2019s tired, it\u2019s over, the model is done. Quit giving them cash.\u201d The same people often snigger when imagining a community radio announcer. Let\u2019s call him Crispin. In their minds, Crispin sits in a dark studio in faded brown corduroy trousers, shiny at the knees, broadcasting to three like-minded souls. He plays Horst Janowski\u2019s A Walk In The Black Forest on repeat and his stale breath smells of Nescafe Blend 43 from the communal kitchen. With three sugars, thanks.For most community radio stations in Australia today, this cliche couldn\u2019t be further from the truth. It hasn\u2019t been for years. But nor are they living high on the hog, siphoning their funding into extravagant lunches while quaffing champagne and taking kickbacks. These stations are not-for-profit organisations and, beyond the bare-bones skeleton staff, are usually manned by volunteers. While most of us are busy sitting on our arses of an evening watching Masterchef or live tweeting the latest episode of My Kitchen Rules, these people give their time and effort for free because they care about their community and care about encouraging voices outside mainstream media. I owe my career to community radio. The same, I suspect, can be said for many media types who now work for both national and commercial broadcasters. Without community radio, where else are you going to get hands-on experience? Most people don\u2019t walk straight into a job at the ABC the minute they get a hankering to do late-night love song dedications. It\u2019s not that simple. And goodness knows, looking back I\u2019m surprised anyone encouraged this confused young thing who trounced into Triple R in Melbourne wearing seven different subcultural signifiers because I couldn't commit to one look. The blue-blonde streak in the front of my hair really said something important at the time. I just can\u2019t remember what it was. Nevertheless, I was given a chance. My first proper gig was the overnight shift, from 1am to 6am, with two other unlikely lads (I suspect we were paired up to keep each other awake; there\u2019s safety in numbers, hence less chance of dead air). I was so nervous I nearly froze before pressing play on a Sonic Youth CD that I\u2019d brought in especially because I thought it would be cool enough. I didn\u2019t know what I was doing but I was doing it. I\u2019ve been addicted to the medium ever since. I had no formal training before this. I hadn\u2019t studied media at university. Yet I was welcomed, trained, encouraged, included. I felt part of a community. And I learnt along the way from seasoned professionals willing to share their knowledge. Community radio stations don\u2019t sit around wasting the little money they\u2019re given, I can assure you. In fact, they can teach the rest of us how to survive in tougher economic times because they\u2019ve always run on not even the smell of an oily rag, just a picture of one. Without much money to play with, community radio still manages to give. Which is more than can be said for most of us.", "tags": ["Radio", "National Commission", "Australia news"], "title": "Australia needs community radio | Myf Warhurst"},{"date": "2014-06-23T03:23:27Z", "country": "australia", "content": "There has been a spate of accidents involving cyclists in the past couple of weeks. Previous deaths resulted in the NSW roads minister, Duncan Gay, considering measures such as a licensing system for cyclists, and barring cyclists from certain roads. Queensland recently implemented a minimum passing distance for motorists overtaking cyclists.Given these developments, it is worth taking a look at the safety statistics for cyclists in Australia. Are things getting better or worse?In the past year and a half cyclists have increased their share in the road toll, due to a proportional increase in deaths in 2013 and 2014:In 2014 there were 26 deaths between January and May. There were 17 in the same period last year. So the trend points to a further increase in annual deaths.These are total and proportional figures. It is also important to know if the rate of deaths for cyclists is increasing or decreasing, but without solid numbers on the number of cyclists and share of travel by bicycle, it is difficult to determine the death rate.One 2010 study I came across estimated the death rate per billion kilometres travelled for cars and bikes in Sydney and Melbourne. While acknowledging some problems because of the limited data, the authors put the death rate at 1.18 per 1bn kilometres for Melbourne in 2008, and 3.91 per 1bn kilometres for Sydney in 2005. The equivalent rate for car occupants was 0.26 and 0.35 respectively. If you know of any more current research please let me know in the comments.It is also difficult to compare Australia with the rest of the world as deaths are directly linked to the cycling participation rate \u2013 measurement of which is sporadic, at best. The Netherlands, for example, has the highest percentage of cyclist deaths by road user type out of 29 countries surveyed by the OECD, but it also has the highest rate of bicycle travel per inhabitant a year.From the Australian road deaths database we can examine the worst times of the day and week. Visualising the death statistics by hour and day shows hotspots in the late afternoon and early morning on weekdays, possibly due to a combination of commuting and poor light conditions. The weekend trend is more spread out over the day.Here's the same visualisation, but for drivers:Here we see a far greater concentration of deaths early on Saturday and Sunday mornings, as well as Friday nights. There is a similar concentration around the commuter hours in the late afternoon.Analyses of the cause of collisions have had varying outcomes. An OECD cycling report said 60% of cyclists were at fault in fatal crashes in Australia, compared with 24% in Denmark and 40% in Spain. Other studies have found the opposite, putting drivers at fault in 87% and 80% of accidents.", "tags": ["Cycling", "Road safety", "Australia news", "Melbourne", "Sydney", "Netherlands", "New South Wales"], "title": "Cycling accidents rising in Australia"},{"date": "2014-06-04T03:05:23Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Welcome to Guardian Masterclasses Australia \u2013 a unique program of learning embedded within one of the world\u2019s most forward-thinking media organisations.Masterclasses offer a broad range of courses across a variety of disciplines from creative writing, journalism, photography and design, digital media, music and cultural appreciation.Harnessing the expertise and specialisms within the organisation, our courses are led by first class and award-winning Guardian professionals whilst also drawing on the skills and expertise of other leading figures at the forefront of the creative and digital industries.The program is aimed at anyone interested in personal or professional development whether that be refining your skills, focusing your ambition or simply broadening your mind and gaining inspiration.Explore the full range of available masterclasses or view the calendar for all our upcoming courses.You can also register your details and we\u2019ll keep you posted about additions to our exciting programme of events.We look forward to inspiring you.If you have any questions about the Guardian Masterclass Australia programme, please contact us by email at masterclasses.australia@theguardian.com, or by telephone on 02 80768431.Alternatively you can write to:Guardian Masterclasses AustraliaGuardian News and MediaLevel 2, 19 Foster StreetSurry HillsNSW 2010", "tags": ["Guardian Masterclasses Australia"], "title": "About Guardian Masterclasses Australia"},{"date": "2014-05-07T01:45:28Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last week, the federal government\u2019s Commission of Audit report recommended there was no longer much point in funding community radio. When this annual call strikes up, the detractors cry: \u201cIt\u2019s tired, it\u2019s over, the model is done. Quit giving them cash.\u201d The same people often snigger when imagining a community radio announcer. Let\u2019s call him Crispin. In their minds, Crispin sits in a dark studio in faded brown corduroy trousers, shiny at the knees, broadcasting to three like-minded souls. He plays Horst Janowski\u2019s A Walk In The Black Forest on repeat and his stale breath smells of Nescafe Blend 43 from the communal kitchen. With three sugars, thanks.For most community radio stations in Australia today, this cliche couldn\u2019t be further from the truth. It hasn\u2019t been for years. But nor are they living high on the hog, siphoning their funding into extravagant lunches while quaffing champagne and taking kickbacks. These stations are not-for-profit organisations and, beyond the bare-bones skeleton staff, are usually manned by volunteers. While most of us are busy sitting on our arses of an evening watching Masterchef or live tweeting the latest episode of My Kitchen Rules, these people give their time and effort for free because they care about their community and care about encouraging voices outside mainstream media. I owe my career to community radio. The same, I suspect, can be said for many media types who now work for both national and commercial broadcasters. Without community radio, where else are you going to get hands-on experience? Most people don\u2019t walk straight into a job at the ABC the minute they get a hankering to do late-night love song dedications. It\u2019s not that simple. And goodness knows, looking back I\u2019m surprised anyone encouraged this confused young thing who trounced into Triple R in Melbourne wearing seven different subcultural signifiers because I couldn't commit to one look. The blue-blonde streak in the front of my hair really said something important at the time. I just can\u2019t remember what it was. Nevertheless, I was given a chance. My first proper gig was the overnight shift, from 1am to 6am, with two other unlikely lads (I suspect we were paired up to keep each other awake; there\u2019s safety in numbers, hence less chance of dead air). I was so nervous I nearly froze before pressing play on a Sonic Youth CD that I\u2019d brought in especially because I thought it would be cool enough. I didn\u2019t know what I was doing but I was doing it. I\u2019ve been addicted to the medium ever since. I had no formal training before this. I hadn\u2019t studied media at university. Yet I was welcomed, trained, encouraged, included. I felt part of a community. And I learnt along the way from seasoned professionals willing to share their knowledge. Community radio stations don\u2019t sit around wasting the little money they\u2019re given, I can assure you. In fact, they can teach the rest of us how to survive in tougher economic times because they\u2019ve always run on not even the smell of an oily rag, just a picture of one. Without much money to play with, community radio still manages to give. Which is more than can be said for most of us.", "tags": ["Radio", "National Commission", "Australia news"], "title": "Australia needs community radio | Myf Warhurst"},{"date": "2014-06-23T03:23:27Z", "country": "australia", "content": "There has been a spate of accidents involving cyclists in the past couple of weeks. Previous deaths resulted in the NSW roads minister, Duncan Gay, considering measures such as a licensing system for cyclists, and barring cyclists from certain roads. Queensland recently implemented a minimum passing distance for motorists overtaking cyclists.Given these developments, it is worth taking a look at the safety statistics for cyclists in Australia. Are things getting better or worse?In the past year and a half cyclists have increased their share in the road toll, due to a proportional increase in deaths in 2013 and 2014:In 2014 there were 26 deaths between January and May. There were 17 in the same period last year. So the trend points to a further increase in annual deaths.These are total and proportional figures. It is also important to know if the rate of deaths for cyclists is increasing or decreasing, but without solid numbers on the number of cyclists and share of travel by bicycle, it is difficult to determine the death rate.One 2010 study I came across estimated the death rate per billion kilometres travelled for cars and bikes in Sydney and Melbourne. While acknowledging some problems because of the limited data, the authors put the death rate at 1.18 per 1bn kilometres for Melbourne in 2008, and 3.91 per 1bn kilometres for Sydney in 2005. The equivalent rate for car occupants was 0.26 and 0.35 respectively. If you know of any more current research please let me know in the comments.It is also difficult to compare Australia with the rest of the world as deaths are directly linked to the cycling participation rate \u2013 measurement of which is sporadic, at best. The Netherlands, for example, has the highest percentage of cyclist deaths by road user type out of 29 countries surveyed by the OECD, but it also has the highest rate of bicycle travel per inhabitant a year.From the Australian road deaths database we can examine the worst times of the day and week. Visualising the death statistics by hour and day shows hotspots in the late afternoon and early morning on weekdays, possibly due to a combination of commuting and poor light conditions. The weekend trend is more spread out over the day.Here's the same visualisation, but for drivers:Here we see a far greater concentration of deaths early on Saturday and Sunday mornings, as well as Friday nights. There is a similar concentration around the commuter hours in the late afternoon.Analyses of the cause of collisions have had varying outcomes. An OECD cycling report said 60% of cyclists were at fault in fatal crashes in Australia, compared with 24% in Denmark and 40% in Spain. Other studies have found the opposite, putting drivers at fault in 87% and 80% of accidents.", "tags": ["Cycling", "Road safety", "Australia news", "Melbourne", "Sydney", "Netherlands", "New South Wales"], "title": "Cycling accidents rising in Australia"},{"date": "2014-06-06T04:03:47Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The front page of the Australian claims Labor's plain packaging laws have failed, as industry research shows a small increase in tobacco sales volume between 2012 and 2013.So, do the figures back up the Australian's claim?Firstly, it's worth examining the industry data presented in the Australian's article.The key number they rely on is an increase in tobacco sales from 21.015bn in 2012 to 21.074bn in 2013*. Labor's plain packaging laws were fully implemented in December 2012.While this is a small 0.28% increase in sales year on year, they have failed to account for the increase in the population between 2012 and 2013.Adjusted for population, tobacco sales per person have actually continued to decrease from 920.4 in 2012 to 906.9 in 2013:Further, buried at the end of the article is another figure from British American Tobacco Australia spokesman Scott McIntyre:\u201cFrom 2008 to 2012 smoking incidence, or the number of people smoking, was declining at an average rate of 3.3% a year,\u201d he said, pointing to Roy Morgan data.\u201cSince plain packaging was introduced, that decline rate slowed to 1.4%.\u201dSo in their own article they have pointed out that the actual rate of smoking is continuing to decline. That is, the number of people smoking has decreased from 2012 to 2013.Combined with the industry sales figures, all this suggests is that less people are smoking, but smokers may be buying slightly more tobacco.These figures are at odds with the latest information from the ABS.As Stephen Koukoulas points out, the latest ABS figures on household expenditure show as of March 2014, consumption of tobacco is the lowest it has ever been since 1959 when it first began to be recorded. Here's a graph of said household expenditure, helpfully provided by Ketan Joshi.The ABS national health survey has not yet covered the plain packaging time period, but again, the long-term trend is downwards.Unfortunately we are unable to compare the methods of the ABS to the research body, InfoView, that provided the tobacco sales numbers as they've declined to release the full dataset.The Australian also cites figures from the NSW population health survey showing a rise in smoking between 2011 (14.7% of all adults) and 2013 (16.4% of all adults). However between 2012, when plain packaging was introduced, and 2013, the figures for smoking in NSW actually show a small decline from 17.1% down to 16.4%:Statistically it's likely that 2012 and 2013 are actually indistinguishable due to the sample size, and the jump from 2011 to 2012 is actually due to a change in methodology, as the NSW health department site says.\"In 2012 mobile phones were included in the survey methods for the first time and this increased the number of younger people and males in the survey sample. Both of these groups have relatively higher smoking rates, leading to a higher overall reported rate of current smoking. The rate for 2013 has stabilised.\"From 2002 to 2011, where the methods change, the long-term trend in smoking is downwards.*Although the Australian's graph showed 21.015m and 21.074m for 2012 and 2013 respectively, I've been told this should actually be in billions.", "tags": ["Smoking", "Australia news", "Australian media", "Tobacco industry", "Health", "New South Wales", "Labor party"], "title": "Is smoking increasing in Australia?"},{"date": "2014-06-04T03:05:23Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Welcome to Guardian Masterclasses Australia \u2013 a unique program of learning embedded within one of the world\u2019s most forward-thinking media organisations.Masterclasses offer a broad range of courses across a variety of disciplines from creative writing, journalism, photography and design, digital media, music and cultural appreciation.Harnessing the expertise and specialisms within the organisation, our courses are led by first class and award-winning Guardian professionals whilst also drawing on the skills and expertise of other leading figures at the forefront of the creative and digital industries.The program is aimed at anyone interested in personal or professional development whether that be refining your skills, focusing your ambition or simply broadening your mind and gaining inspiration.Explore the full range of available masterclasses or view the calendar for all our upcoming courses.You can also register your details and we\u2019ll keep you posted about additions to our exciting programme of events.We look forward to inspiring you.If you have any questions about the Guardian Masterclass Australia programme, please contact us by email at masterclasses.australia@theguardian.com, or by telephone on 02 80768431.Alternatively you can write to:Guardian Masterclasses AustraliaGuardian News and MediaLevel 2, 19 Foster StreetSurry HillsNSW 2010", "tags": ["Guardian Masterclasses Australia"], "title": "About Guardian Masterclasses Australia"},{"date": "2014-05-07T01:45:28Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last week, the federal government\u2019s Commission of Audit report recommended there was no longer much point in funding community radio. When this annual call strikes up, the detractors cry: \u201cIt\u2019s tired, it\u2019s over, the model is done. Quit giving them cash.\u201d The same people often snigger when imagining a community radio announcer. Let\u2019s call him Crispin. In their minds, Crispin sits in a dark studio in faded brown corduroy trousers, shiny at the knees, broadcasting to three like-minded souls. He plays Horst Janowski\u2019s A Walk In The Black Forest on repeat and his stale breath smells of Nescafe Blend 43 from the communal kitchen. With three sugars, thanks.For most community radio stations in Australia today, this cliche couldn\u2019t be further from the truth. It hasn\u2019t been for years. But nor are they living high on the hog, siphoning their funding into extravagant lunches while quaffing champagne and taking kickbacks. These stations are not-for-profit organisations and, beyond the bare-bones skeleton staff, are usually manned by volunteers. While most of us are busy sitting on our arses of an evening watching Masterchef or live tweeting the latest episode of My Kitchen Rules, these people give their time and effort for free because they care about their community and care about encouraging voices outside mainstream media. I owe my career to community radio. The same, I suspect, can be said for many media types who now work for both national and commercial broadcasters. Without community radio, where else are you going to get hands-on experience? Most people don\u2019t walk straight into a job at the ABC the minute they get a hankering to do late-night love song dedications. It\u2019s not that simple. And goodness knows, looking back I\u2019m surprised anyone encouraged this confused young thing who trounced into Triple R in Melbourne wearing seven different subcultural signifiers because I couldn't commit to one look. The blue-blonde streak in the front of my hair really said something important at the time. I just can\u2019t remember what it was. Nevertheless, I was given a chance. My first proper gig was the overnight shift, from 1am to 6am, with two other unlikely lads (I suspect we were paired up to keep each other awake; there\u2019s safety in numbers, hence less chance of dead air). I was so nervous I nearly froze before pressing play on a Sonic Youth CD that I\u2019d brought in especially because I thought it would be cool enough. I didn\u2019t know what I was doing but I was doing it. I\u2019ve been addicted to the medium ever since. I had no formal training before this. I hadn\u2019t studied media at university. Yet I was welcomed, trained, encouraged, included. I felt part of a community. And I learnt along the way from seasoned professionals willing to share their knowledge. Community radio stations don\u2019t sit around wasting the little money they\u2019re given, I can assure you. In fact, they can teach the rest of us how to survive in tougher economic times because they\u2019ve always run on not even the smell of an oily rag, just a picture of one. Without much money to play with, community radio still manages to give. Which is more than can be said for most of us.", "tags": ["Radio", "National Commission", "Australia news"], "title": "Australia needs community radio | Myf Warhurst"},{"date": "2014-06-23T03:23:27Z", "country": "australia", "content": "There has been a spate of accidents involving cyclists in the past couple of weeks. Previous deaths resulted in the NSW roads minister, Duncan Gay, considering measures such as a licensing system for cyclists, and barring cyclists from certain roads. Queensland recently implemented a minimum passing distance for motorists overtaking cyclists.Given these developments, it is worth taking a look at the safety statistics for cyclists in Australia. Are things getting better or worse?In the past year and a half cyclists have increased their share in the road toll, due to a proportional increase in deaths in 2013 and 2014:In 2014 there were 26 deaths between January and May. There were 17 in the same period last year. So the trend points to a further increase in annual deaths.These are total and proportional figures. It is also important to know if the rate of deaths for cyclists is increasing or decreasing, but without solid numbers on the number of cyclists and share of travel by bicycle, it is difficult to determine the death rate.One 2010 study I came across estimated the death rate per billion kilometres travelled for cars and bikes in Sydney and Melbourne. While acknowledging some problems because of the limited data, the authors put the death rate at 1.18 per 1bn kilometres for Melbourne in 2008, and 3.91 per 1bn kilometres for Sydney in 2005. The equivalent rate for car occupants was 0.26 and 0.35 respectively. If you know of any more current research please let me know in the comments.It is also difficult to compare Australia with the rest of the world as deaths are directly linked to the cycling participation rate \u2013 measurement of which is sporadic, at best. The Netherlands, for example, has the highest percentage of cyclist deaths by road user type out of 29 countries surveyed by the OECD, but it also has the highest rate of bicycle travel per inhabitant a year.From the Australian road deaths database we can examine the worst times of the day and week. Visualising the death statistics by hour and day shows hotspots in the late afternoon and early morning on weekdays, possibly due to a combination of commuting and poor light conditions. The weekend trend is more spread out over the day.Here's the same visualisation, but for drivers:Here we see a far greater concentration of deaths early on Saturday and Sunday mornings, as well as Friday nights. There is a similar concentration around the commuter hours in the late afternoon.Analyses of the cause of collisions have had varying outcomes. An OECD cycling report said 60% of cyclists were at fault in fatal crashes in Australia, compared with 24% in Denmark and 40% in Spain. Other studies have found the opposite, putting drivers at fault in 87% and 80% of accidents.", "tags": ["Cycling", "Road safety", "Australia news", "Melbourne", "Sydney", "Netherlands", "New South Wales"], "title": "Cycling accidents rising in Australia"},{"date": "2014-06-06T04:03:47Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The front page of the Australian claims Labor's plain packaging laws have failed, as industry research shows a small increase in tobacco sales volume between 2012 and 2013.So, do the figures back up the Australian's claim?Firstly, it's worth examining the industry data presented in the Australian's article.The key number they rely on is an increase in tobacco sales from 21.015bn in 2012 to 21.074bn in 2013*. Labor's plain packaging laws were fully implemented in December 2012.While this is a small 0.28% increase in sales year on year, they have failed to account for the increase in the population between 2012 and 2013.Adjusted for population, tobacco sales per person have actually continued to decrease from 920.4 in 2012 to 906.9 in 2013:Further, buried at the end of the article is another figure from British American Tobacco Australia spokesman Scott McIntyre:\u201cFrom 2008 to 2012 smoking incidence, or the number of people smoking, was declining at an average rate of 3.3% a year,\u201d he said, pointing to Roy Morgan data.\u201cSince plain packaging was introduced, that decline rate slowed to 1.4%.\u201dSo in their own article they have pointed out that the actual rate of smoking is continuing to decline. That is, the number of people smoking has decreased from 2012 to 2013.Combined with the industry sales figures, all this suggests is that less people are smoking, but smokers may be buying slightly more tobacco.These figures are at odds with the latest information from the ABS.As Stephen Koukoulas points out, the latest ABS figures on household expenditure show as of March 2014, consumption of tobacco is the lowest it has ever been since 1959 when it first began to be recorded. Here's a graph of said household expenditure, helpfully provided by Ketan Joshi.The ABS national health survey has not yet covered the plain packaging time period, but again, the long-term trend is downwards.Unfortunately we are unable to compare the methods of the ABS to the research body, InfoView, that provided the tobacco sales numbers as they've declined to release the full dataset.The Australian also cites figures from the NSW population health survey showing a rise in smoking between 2011 (14.7% of all adults) and 2013 (16.4% of all adults). However between 2012, when plain packaging was introduced, and 2013, the figures for smoking in NSW actually show a small decline from 17.1% down to 16.4%:Statistically it's likely that 2012 and 2013 are actually indistinguishable due to the sample size, and the jump from 2011 to 2012 is actually due to a change in methodology, as the NSW health department site says.\"In 2012 mobile phones were included in the survey methods for the first time and this increased the number of younger people and males in the survey sample. Both of these groups have relatively higher smoking rates, leading to a higher overall reported rate of current smoking. The rate for 2013 has stabilised.\"From 2002 to 2011, where the methods change, the long-term trend in smoking is downwards.*Although the Australian's graph showed 21.015m and 21.074m for 2012 and 2013 respectively, I've been told this should actually be in billions.", "tags": ["Smoking", "Australia news", "Australian media", "Tobacco industry", "Health", "New South Wales", "Labor party"], "title": "Is smoking increasing in Australia?"},{"date": "2014-06-06T00:11:30Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The 2014 Lowy Institute Poll, released this week, demonstrates that when it comes to China, Australians feel very conflicted.On the one hand, Australians\u2019 feelings towards China are as warm as they have ever been in 10 years of Lowy Institute polling. Remarkably, Australians believe that China has as much of a claim to the title of \"Australia\u2019s best friend in Asia\" as Japan has \u2013 and a greater claim than Singapore, Indonesia, India or South Korea.On the other hand, nearly half (48%) of Australians believe it is likely that China will become a military threat to Australia in the next 20 years. More than half (56%) believe the government allows too much foreign investment from China.And China\u2019s powerful new leader, president Xi Jinping, hardly registers in the Australian public consciousness. When asked to rate a series of world leaders, only 2% of Australians said they admired Xi a lot, and 15% admired him a little. A full 64% did not know of Xi or had no view of him.It is remarkable that so many Australians believe we may soon be threatened militarily by a country that many of us today see as our best friend in Asia. But it is also understandable that Australia and China should not have a complete meeting of the minds. On the one hand, there is much for Australians to admire about China\u2019s development. In the past three decades, China has remade its economy, driven extraordinary productivity increases, and in so doing raised hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. This last achievement should not be ignored by China\u2019s critics.China\u2019s economic growth and its appetite for natural resources has, of course, put a good deal of money into Australians\u2019 pockets in recent years. Increasingly, flows of trade and investment flows are being matched by flows of people, as Australian and Chinese tourists discover each others\u2019 countries.On the other hand, our two countries remain starkly different. There are limits to the level of intimacy that can be achieved between a democracy and a non-democracy. This week\u2019s anniversary of Tiananmen Square is a reminder that internal conditions in China have the potential to derail the bilateral relationship.Furthermore, China\u2019s external behaviour has taken a more assertive turn of late. Last year, China unilaterally announced an air defence identification zone over the East China Sea, provoking strong responses from Australia and other countries. In early February, Chinese warships conducted their first military exercises in the waters immediately to Australia\u2019s north.Given the uncertainty about China\u2019s future behaviour, it makes good sense for us to invest in our alliance with the United States and encourage its \"rebalance\" towards Asia. But this does not mean we should run down our relationship with China; on the contrary, we should thicken it.What can we do to take the Australia-China relationship to the next level?The strategic partnership delivered by former prime minister Julia Gillard in 2013 was a good start. Australian and Chinese political leaders do not know each other well enough. Now Australian and Chinese leaders are due to hold annual meetings each year and Cabinet-level strategic dialogues on foreign policy and economics are also meant to take place. The Lowy Institute has long argued for this kind of arrangements to build trust between the political elites of the two countries.In April, prime minister Tony Abbott pulled off a successful visit to Beijing. Taking a leaf from John Howard\u2019s book, he stayed away from human rights and focused instead on areas of common interest, in particular economic ties. He was assisted by the professionalism showed by Australian agencies in the search for MH370 \u2013 a topic in which the Chinese leadership is intensely interested.This November, president Xi is due to visit to Australia in November for the G20 Leaders Summit. Hopefully he will stay for longer than the summit, and see more of Australia than Brisbane.When it comes to Asian security, Canberra needs to walk a fine line. We should not get caught up in bilateral disputes in which we cannot make a material difference \u2013 but we should not back off from defending our own interests and values. I have never heard a sinologist say that the one thing the Chinese respect is weakness.The worst thing we could do is lead the Chinese to believe we will pre-emptively downgrade our alliance relationship with Washington in order to curry favour with Beijing. That is never going to happen and any hints to the contrary will only lead to disappointment down the track. China appreciates clarity and consistency in its relations with other countries, and Australia owes it no less than that.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australian politics", "China", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Are Australia and China frenemies? | Michael Fullilove"},{"date": "2014-06-04T03:05:23Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Welcome to Guardian Masterclasses Australia \u2013 a unique program of learning embedded within one of the world\u2019s most forward-thinking media organisations.Masterclasses offer a broad range of courses across a variety of disciplines from creative writing, journalism, photography and design, digital media, music and cultural appreciation.Harnessing the expertise and specialisms within the organisation, our courses are led by first class and award-winning Guardian professionals whilst also drawing on the skills and expertise of other leading figures at the forefront of the creative and digital industries.The program is aimed at anyone interested in personal or professional development whether that be refining your skills, focusing your ambition or simply broadening your mind and gaining inspiration.Explore the full range of available masterclasses or view the calendar for all our upcoming courses.You can also register your details and we\u2019ll keep you posted about additions to our exciting programme of events.We look forward to inspiring you.If you have any questions about the Guardian Masterclass Australia programme, please contact us by email at masterclasses.australia@theguardian.com, or by telephone on 02 80768431.Alternatively you can write to:Guardian Masterclasses AustraliaGuardian News and MediaLevel 2, 19 Foster StreetSurry HillsNSW 2010", "tags": ["Guardian Masterclasses Australia"], "title": "About Guardian Masterclasses Australia"},{"date": "2014-05-07T01:45:28Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last week, the federal government\u2019s Commission of Audit report recommended there was no longer much point in funding community radio. When this annual call strikes up, the detractors cry: \u201cIt\u2019s tired, it\u2019s over, the model is done. Quit giving them cash.\u201d The same people often snigger when imagining a community radio announcer. Let\u2019s call him Crispin. In their minds, Crispin sits in a dark studio in faded brown corduroy trousers, shiny at the knees, broadcasting to three like-minded souls. He plays Horst Janowski\u2019s A Walk In The Black Forest on repeat and his stale breath smells of Nescafe Blend 43 from the communal kitchen. With three sugars, thanks.For most community radio stations in Australia today, this cliche couldn\u2019t be further from the truth. It hasn\u2019t been for years. But nor are they living high on the hog, siphoning their funding into extravagant lunches while quaffing champagne and taking kickbacks. These stations are not-for-profit organisations and, beyond the bare-bones skeleton staff, are usually manned by volunteers. While most of us are busy sitting on our arses of an evening watching Masterchef or live tweeting the latest episode of My Kitchen Rules, these people give their time and effort for free because they care about their community and care about encouraging voices outside mainstream media. I owe my career to community radio. The same, I suspect, can be said for many media types who now work for both national and commercial broadcasters. Without community radio, where else are you going to get hands-on experience? Most people don\u2019t walk straight into a job at the ABC the minute they get a hankering to do late-night love song dedications. It\u2019s not that simple. And goodness knows, looking back I\u2019m surprised anyone encouraged this confused young thing who trounced into Triple R in Melbourne wearing seven different subcultural signifiers because I couldn't commit to one look. The blue-blonde streak in the front of my hair really said something important at the time. I just can\u2019t remember what it was. Nevertheless, I was given a chance. My first proper gig was the overnight shift, from 1am to 6am, with two other unlikely lads (I suspect we were paired up to keep each other awake; there\u2019s safety in numbers, hence less chance of dead air). I was so nervous I nearly froze before pressing play on a Sonic Youth CD that I\u2019d brought in especially because I thought it would be cool enough. I didn\u2019t know what I was doing but I was doing it. I\u2019ve been addicted to the medium ever since. I had no formal training before this. I hadn\u2019t studied media at university. Yet I was welcomed, trained, encouraged, included. I felt part of a community. And I learnt along the way from seasoned professionals willing to share their knowledge. Community radio stations don\u2019t sit around wasting the little money they\u2019re given, I can assure you. In fact, they can teach the rest of us how to survive in tougher economic times because they\u2019ve always run on not even the smell of an oily rag, just a picture of one. Without much money to play with, community radio still manages to give. Which is more than can be said for most of us.", "tags": ["Radio", "National Commission", "Australia news"], "title": "Australia needs community radio | Myf Warhurst"},{"date": "2014-06-23T03:23:27Z", "country": "australia", "content": "There has been a spate of accidents involving cyclists in the past couple of weeks. Previous deaths resulted in the NSW roads minister, Duncan Gay, considering measures such as a licensing system for cyclists, and barring cyclists from certain roads. Queensland recently implemented a minimum passing distance for motorists overtaking cyclists.Given these developments, it is worth taking a look at the safety statistics for cyclists in Australia. Are things getting better or worse?In the past year and a half cyclists have increased their share in the road toll, due to a proportional increase in deaths in 2013 and 2014:In 2014 there were 26 deaths between January and May. There were 17 in the same period last year. So the trend points to a further increase in annual deaths.These are total and proportional figures. It is also important to know if the rate of deaths for cyclists is increasing or decreasing, but without solid numbers on the number of cyclists and share of travel by bicycle, it is difficult to determine the death rate.One 2010 study I came across estimated the death rate per billion kilometres travelled for cars and bikes in Sydney and Melbourne. While acknowledging some problems because of the limited data, the authors put the death rate at 1.18 per 1bn kilometres for Melbourne in 2008, and 3.91 per 1bn kilometres for Sydney in 2005. The equivalent rate for car occupants was 0.26 and 0.35 respectively. If you know of any more current research please let me know in the comments.It is also difficult to compare Australia with the rest of the world as deaths are directly linked to the cycling participation rate \u2013 measurement of which is sporadic, at best. The Netherlands, for example, has the highest percentage of cyclist deaths by road user type out of 29 countries surveyed by the OECD, but it also has the highest rate of bicycle travel per inhabitant a year.From the Australian road deaths database we can examine the worst times of the day and week. Visualising the death statistics by hour and day shows hotspots in the late afternoon and early morning on weekdays, possibly due to a combination of commuting and poor light conditions. The weekend trend is more spread out over the day.Here's the same visualisation, but for drivers:Here we see a far greater concentration of deaths early on Saturday and Sunday mornings, as well as Friday nights. There is a similar concentration around the commuter hours in the late afternoon.Analyses of the cause of collisions have had varying outcomes. An OECD cycling report said 60% of cyclists were at fault in fatal crashes in Australia, compared with 24% in Denmark and 40% in Spain. Other studies have found the opposite, putting drivers at fault in 87% and 80% of accidents.", "tags": ["Cycling", "Road safety", "Australia news", "Melbourne", "Sydney", "Netherlands", "New South Wales"], "title": "Cycling accidents rising in Australia"},{"date": "2014-06-06T04:03:47Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The front page of the Australian claims Labor's plain packaging laws have failed, as industry research shows a small increase in tobacco sales volume between 2012 and 2013.So, do the figures back up the Australian's claim?Firstly, it's worth examining the industry data presented in the Australian's article.The key number they rely on is an increase in tobacco sales from 21.015bn in 2012 to 21.074bn in 2013*. Labor's plain packaging laws were fully implemented in December 2012.While this is a small 0.28% increase in sales year on year, they have failed to account for the increase in the population between 2012 and 2013.Adjusted for population, tobacco sales per person have actually continued to decrease from 920.4 in 2012 to 906.9 in 2013:Further, buried at the end of the article is another figure from British American Tobacco Australia spokesman Scott McIntyre:\u201cFrom 2008 to 2012 smoking incidence, or the number of people smoking, was declining at an average rate of 3.3% a year,\u201d he said, pointing to Roy Morgan data.\u201cSince plain packaging was introduced, that decline rate slowed to 1.4%.\u201dSo in their own article they have pointed out that the actual rate of smoking is continuing to decline. That is, the number of people smoking has decreased from 2012 to 2013.Combined with the industry sales figures, all this suggests is that less people are smoking, but smokers may be buying slightly more tobacco.These figures are at odds with the latest information from the ABS.As Stephen Koukoulas points out, the latest ABS figures on household expenditure show as of March 2014, consumption of tobacco is the lowest it has ever been since 1959 when it first began to be recorded. Here's a graph of said household expenditure, helpfully provided by Ketan Joshi.The ABS national health survey has not yet covered the plain packaging time period, but again, the long-term trend is downwards.Unfortunately we are unable to compare the methods of the ABS to the research body, InfoView, that provided the tobacco sales numbers as they've declined to release the full dataset.The Australian also cites figures from the NSW population health survey showing a rise in smoking between 2011 (14.7% of all adults) and 2013 (16.4% of all adults). However between 2012, when plain packaging was introduced, and 2013, the figures for smoking in NSW actually show a small decline from 17.1% down to 16.4%:Statistically it's likely that 2012 and 2013 are actually indistinguishable due to the sample size, and the jump from 2011 to 2012 is actually due to a change in methodology, as the NSW health department site says.\"In 2012 mobile phones were included in the survey methods for the first time and this increased the number of younger people and males in the survey sample. Both of these groups have relatively higher smoking rates, leading to a higher overall reported rate of current smoking. The rate for 2013 has stabilised.\"From 2002 to 2011, where the methods change, the long-term trend in smoking is downwards.*Although the Australian's graph showed 21.015m and 21.074m for 2012 and 2013 respectively, I've been told this should actually be in billions.", "tags": ["Smoking", "Australia news", "Australian media", "Tobacco industry", "Health", "New South Wales", "Labor party"], "title": "Is smoking increasing in Australia?"},{"date": "2014-06-06T00:11:30Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The 2014 Lowy Institute Poll, released this week, demonstrates that when it comes to China, Australians feel very conflicted.On the one hand, Australians\u2019 feelings towards China are as warm as they have ever been in 10 years of Lowy Institute polling. Remarkably, Australians believe that China has as much of a claim to the title of \"Australia\u2019s best friend in Asia\" as Japan has \u2013 and a greater claim than Singapore, Indonesia, India or South Korea.On the other hand, nearly half (48%) of Australians believe it is likely that China will become a military threat to Australia in the next 20 years. More than half (56%) believe the government allows too much foreign investment from China.And China\u2019s powerful new leader, president Xi Jinping, hardly registers in the Australian public consciousness. When asked to rate a series of world leaders, only 2% of Australians said they admired Xi a lot, and 15% admired him a little. A full 64% did not know of Xi or had no view of him.It is remarkable that so many Australians believe we may soon be threatened militarily by a country that many of us today see as our best friend in Asia. But it is also understandable that Australia and China should not have a complete meeting of the minds. On the one hand, there is much for Australians to admire about China\u2019s development. In the past three decades, China has remade its economy, driven extraordinary productivity increases, and in so doing raised hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. This last achievement should not be ignored by China\u2019s critics.China\u2019s economic growth and its appetite for natural resources has, of course, put a good deal of money into Australians\u2019 pockets in recent years. Increasingly, flows of trade and investment flows are being matched by flows of people, as Australian and Chinese tourists discover each others\u2019 countries.On the other hand, our two countries remain starkly different. There are limits to the level of intimacy that can be achieved between a democracy and a non-democracy. This week\u2019s anniversary of Tiananmen Square is a reminder that internal conditions in China have the potential to derail the bilateral relationship.Furthermore, China\u2019s external behaviour has taken a more assertive turn of late. Last year, China unilaterally announced an air defence identification zone over the East China Sea, provoking strong responses from Australia and other countries. In early February, Chinese warships conducted their first military exercises in the waters immediately to Australia\u2019s north.Given the uncertainty about China\u2019s future behaviour, it makes good sense for us to invest in our alliance with the United States and encourage its \"rebalance\" towards Asia. But this does not mean we should run down our relationship with China; on the contrary, we should thicken it.What can we do to take the Australia-China relationship to the next level?The strategic partnership delivered by former prime minister Julia Gillard in 2013 was a good start. Australian and Chinese political leaders do not know each other well enough. Now Australian and Chinese leaders are due to hold annual meetings each year and Cabinet-level strategic dialogues on foreign policy and economics are also meant to take place. The Lowy Institute has long argued for this kind of arrangements to build trust between the political elites of the two countries.In April, prime minister Tony Abbott pulled off a successful visit to Beijing. Taking a leaf from John Howard\u2019s book, he stayed away from human rights and focused instead on areas of common interest, in particular economic ties. He was assisted by the professionalism showed by Australian agencies in the search for MH370 \u2013 a topic in which the Chinese leadership is intensely interested.This November, president Xi is due to visit to Australia in November for the G20 Leaders Summit. Hopefully he will stay for longer than the summit, and see more of Australia than Brisbane.When it comes to Asian security, Canberra needs to walk a fine line. We should not get caught up in bilateral disputes in which we cannot make a material difference \u2013 but we should not back off from defending our own interests and values. I have never heard a sinologist say that the one thing the Chinese respect is weakness.The worst thing we could do is lead the Chinese to believe we will pre-emptively downgrade our alliance relationship with Washington in order to curry favour with Beijing. That is never going to happen and any hints to the contrary will only lead to disappointment down the track. China appreciates clarity and consistency in its relations with other countries, and Australia owes it no less than that.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australian politics", "China", "Foreign policy", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Are Australia and China frenemies? | Michael Fullilove"},{"date": "2014-06-24T00:25:50Z", "country": "australia", "content": "As Australia\u2019s first Indigenous opera, Pecan Summer, prepares to open at the Adelaide Festival Centre for its fourth season, creator and composer Deborah Cheetham well remembers the opera\u2019s premiere. Her work tells an epic story of black Australian history; its central narrative considers historical events from 1939, when 200 people of the Yorta Yorta nation defiantly walked away from the white Cummeragunja mission that had corralled them. Cheetham, who found original success as an opera singer, extended her commitment to creating Indigenous work for Indigenous artists by premiering the work in a respectful cultural context: \u201cI made the decision the opera was going to premiere on country,\u201d she explains. It \u201cjust so happened\u201d that a mere kilometre from where the Yorta Yorta settled after their 120-kilometre trek from Cummeragunja, the composer discovered a proscenium arch theatre with an orchestra pit in the small town of Maroopna, Victoria, not far from Shepparton. Not only was the venue large enough to accommodate the 40 performers, including a 15-strong children\u2019s choir, but many of the Yorta Yorta\u2019s descendants were among those in the audience \u2013 and in the cast. At the premiere, the audience was 80% Aboriginal. Several children in the choir are descendants of the Yorta Yorta, and over the course of researching the story, Cheetham \u2013 a survivor of the Stolen Generations \u2013 discovered that her own grandparents, whom she never met, were among those to have walked away from Cummeragunja.The traditional anxiety of the composer/librettist on opening night was intense; Cheetham had family in that audience \u2013 her cousin Frances and Uncle Jimmy had travelled down to see it, and the curtain was late to go up. Cheetham describes \u201clooking at the backstage clock, five minutes, three minutes \u2026 then it\u2019s two minutes after it was supposed to up \u2026 and then it was 15 minutes before the stage manager came down \u2013 and I was like: why are we late? I don\u2019t do late!\u201d As it was, it was her uncle who was indirectly responsible for the delay; \u201cJimmy\u201d was no less than Australian music legend Jimmy Little, and he was mobbed by fans as soon as he\u2019d emerged from his car. \u201cThing is,\u201d says Cheetham, \u201che's mobbed by fans in their 70s, so their mobbing was really slow. It took 15 minutes to get him into the theatre.\u201dSince its first appearance, Pecan Summer has enjoyed popular success and stellar reviews. Cheetham\u2019s creative inspiration was her own experience. \u201cI\u2019m not the first Aboriginal opera singer,\u201d she says. \u201cThat honour goes to Harold Blair, a tenor who had a career in the 50s and 60s. I just felt that I didn\u2019t want to be the only or last Indigenous singer to have a career in the world of opera. The only thing that stands in the way of more Aboriginal people taking this road is opportunity, so I set out to create this opera so more people would have that opportunity.\u201d Through Cheetham\u2019s company, Short Black, this ambition has been realised; six company members who got their break in Pecan Summer have now graduated from degrees in classical vocal performance \u2013 some winning the Harold Blair scholarship from Melbourne\u2019s Opera Trust. As the singers gain recognition in the state national companies, so, too, was the contribution of Cheetham and her company recognised in the Queen\u2019s Birthday honours this year.\u201cI have always loved opera and I wanted to create a story of Indigenous Australia,\u201d she says. \u201cOpera tells the big stories, and this is the story of the exodus of a people from their homeland. At the same time, opera is capable of dealing with intimate moments as well. Think of Aida, and that enormous triumphal scene that brings that second act to a close \u2013 but the rest of that opera is intimate moments, a love triangle over here, a betrayal over there. It deals with epic scale and intimacy. Pecan Summer is about the epic journey of the Yorta Yorta people, but it\u2019s also about the intimate connection of a mother and a daughter, and what happens when that connection is broken.\u201cWhen that first curtain went up I felt the full weight of responsibility for telling the story of people who took that action all those years ago,\u201d Cheetham says. \u201cI felt the responsibility to tell that story right and do honour to it. It was overwhelming. They tell me there were 15 minutes of applause at the end. It felt that I\u2019d done something, and that something was more than make an opera.\u201cIn the arts, it\u2019s always more. A song is never just a song. For Aboriginal people, a song is a map \u2013 it\u2019s a way of finding your way home. And that\u2019s what Pecan Summer is for me. It\u2019s a way of finding my way home.\u201d", "tags": ["Opera", "Indigenous Australians", "Australia news", "Classical music", "Culture", "Music"], "title": "Pecan Summer: an opera for Indigenous Australia"},{"date": "2014-08-26T02:13:36Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last April Jeremy Geia posted his driver\u2019s licence to the chief minister of the Australian Capital Territory, where he was then living, with a polite note explaining why he no longer needed it.Then he returned his passport and Medicare card to the federal government.Geia sent them back because he had decided to \u201cleave Australia\u201d while remaining in this continent, by reverting to his tribal name and adhering primarily to the law of his people, the Yidindji of north Queensland.While severing all official contact and contracts with Australian institutions, he made a few more momentous life decisions too, relinquishing a good salary by quitting his job as chief political correspondent in the Canberra press gallery for National Indigenous Television, giving away most of his things, and abandoning his bank accounts and 20 years\u2019 superannuation.We are talking in Cairns over breakfast (my shout; he carries barely enough change to park his borrowed car) about what inspired him to abandon what he calls the \u201cAustralian citizen ship\u201d.Murrumu Walubara Yidindji, as he is now, is highly adept with words \u2013 consistent with the reputation he honed in Canberra and elsewhere (among other stories he broke, Murrumu was the first western reporter to interview Julian Assange in London\u2019s Ecuadorian embassy) as a highly respected journalist. He footnotes his English aphorism with Latin interpretation and constantly riffs \u2013 even kind of raps \u2013 off the entendre of words he so precisely selects.He\u2019s a warm, enigmatic big bear of a bloke with whom conversation oscillates seamlessly from the intensely political (sovereignty and the sites where his people were massacred) to prosaic (football, kids, mutual friends, weather).To begin to understand Murrumu it\u2019s perhaps best to start here.\u201cSuperficies solo credit \u2013 what is attached to the land belongs to the land,\u201d he says.\u201cQui prior est tempore potior est jure \u2013 first in time is best in law.\u201dMurrumu\u2019s message could not be clearer: the Yidindji have been on their land \u2013 which incorporates all of Cairns, extends from the Russell river in the south to the Mowbray in the north, and reaches from beyond the Malbon Thompson range and out into the Coral Sea past the Franklin Islands \u2013 since the Dreaming began. Any additions to that land, such as buildings and roads, piers and jetties, he insists, belong to the country itself and the Yidindji.\u201cThe Australian government sees us as the original inhabitants and [as] the original peoples, and that says to me that our law is strongest in law and their law is Johnny Come Lately,\u201d he says.Having rescinded and revoked any allegiance to the Commonwealth of Australia, he says, \u201c1788 is fast becoming 1984\u201d.\u201cThe rapid dominance resulting from British contact has fast turned many tribal people into state citizens who live lives of voluntary servitude far removed from their tribal duties and laws.\u201dWhile it seems that not all practical detail of abandoning the citizen ship has yet been finessed, Murrumu has embarked on a campaign \u2013 beginning this week in Canberra where he\u2019ll meet foreign diplomats and speak at the Australian National University \u2013 to cultivate international awareness about the supremacy of Yidindji law and his departure from Australia.\u201cPeople that know me and know what I\u2019m doing are more than happy to support me because they know that what I\u2019m doing is the truth,\u201d he says. \u201cThe truth is that we were here before the British. The truth is that we hold sovereignty and dominion over these lands. The truth is that there\u2019ve been genocide and multiple crimes against humanity and massacres committed on this land that haven\u2019t been brought to ... justice.\u201cWe\u2019ve sent notices to the world letting them know that Yidindji tribal authority is here and [about] my wish to make an offer to negotiate and ... to settle with the ones who are benefiting from the unjust enrichments from using my ancestral lands and my child\u2019s property.\u201dHe has written to Tony Abbott, whom he knows personally. But so far he\u2019s only received an impersonal response from the prime minister\u2019s department.Murrumu says while he had been contemplating a return to tribal law for some time, the political instability, treachery, deceit and self-indulgence surrounding the Labor leadership, especially in mid-2013 when Kevin Rudd reassumed the prime ministership, helped crystallise his decision.\u201cEveryone in Parliament House was talking about it and at that stage I thought, \u2018This is childlike \u2013 how can people, including my people, improve their lives when this type of caper is going on?\u2019 \u201cWhile that circus was happening a lot of people who had put their faith in voting and in the political process had been disrespected. That, for me, was the tipping point and I made a decision to say, \u2018You know what? This is a system that\u2019s not for me. That\u2019s when I decided to jump off the citizen ship, leave Australia.\u201dDivesting personal possessions is liberating, says Murrumu, who, I\u2019m guessing, might be in his late 30s or early 40s.I do ask his age, and he says: \u201cI have been here since the beginning of time. My body has information that is tens of thousands of years old.\u201dFair enough.Today he owns seven T-shirts and one pair of trousers. Nothing else. No longer opening mail is a blessing, he says. Notably, for a bloke who\u2019s off the grid, he\u2019s still on the net and his emails arrive under his tribal moniker.He lives with friends including a Yidindji elder, Gudju Gudju, on the outskirts of Cairns where the fecund, black earth, with its countless worry lines of rivulets and streams, begins to rise gently into the dense, lush rainforest of the ancient range.\u201cAnd I do still love my English football \u2013 Liverpool. And English breakfast tea,\u201d he volunteers.Then he laughs because ... well, yes, the irony, which is pretty acute, is not lost on him. But then again, he\u2019s not declaring war on Britain and Australia, \u201cjust peacefully going back to my original law\u201d. While plenty may \u2013 and will \u2013 disagree, I guess Murrumu is still entitled to support whichever English Premier League team he likes and imbibe whatever cha, so long as it\u2019s on someone else\u2019s flat screen and there are mates willing to spot him a teabag or two.As we drive to the place where he sleeps (\u201cI live in here,\u201d he insists, tapping his chest, in a way that prompts you to think about your own life) a police car passes on the other side of the highway.\u201cPolicy enforcement officers,\u201d Murrumu says, shaking his head.Officers who would doubtless be confused should they pull Murrumu over and demand to see his licence.\u201cYeah, I don\u2019t hold a licence because it had the incorrect name on it [Jeremy Geia] and furthermore I did not want to hold a licence because the supreme creator here is Gayaburra Goopi and he gave the tribal people the law to uphold and this gives us the supreme authority on the land,\u201d he says.He explains that he and a few others who are following his example carry only a document, created by him, that explains their tribal identity. Yidindji number plates and perhaps even currency are planned. In the meantime Murrumu is growing food and bartering, sometimes with his own impressive paintings, demand for which is growing.\u201cWho created the licences ... and all these other things that Australian citizens use? It\u2019s the crown or the commonwealth. So they belong to them. And you know, give back to Caesar what belongs to Rome ... this is your stuff, so take it back.\u201dAbout here I start to wonder if Murrumu is having just a little bit of a lend. He says that if stopped by the Australian authorities he would identify himself as a tribal man who lives outside Australia and he expects that his status would be respected.And I also wonder if he\u2019s having me on when he acknowledges the advantages of living in Australia, such as Medicare and public hospitals and schools, but reiterates \u201cwhat is attached to the land belongs to the land\u201d and \u201cif this is tribal land then surely all these buildings belong to the tribe\u201d, which leads inevitably to this exchange:\u201cOK, so your kid gets sick and needs to go to hospital and he needs to go to school, how do you deal with that practicality?\u201dMurrumu: \u201cWell, we just take them to school, and they get an education.\u201d\u201cBut that is an education provided by the state.\u201dMurrumu: \u201cYeah, but that school\u2019s on my land.\u201d\u201cThe same with the hospital, right?\u201d\u201cThat\u2019s exactly right.\u201dBut by the time we get to Gudju Gudju\u2019s house, Murrumu has mentioned perhaps half a dozen times the massacre of various tribal people, his own included, by soldiers, settlers and police that began with the arrival of the first citizen ship from England in 1788.Yes, he is provoking an important conversation by just about any verbal means possible. But in the end I am left in no doubt that he is entirely serious and that his resolve is sure. He\u2019s not having a lend.I meet Gudju Gudju, who takes me across the road to a grassy lot that abuts Skeleton creek. We stand beneath the impressive canopy of a monolithic raintree, imported from the Americas long after the British arrived, and Gudju Gudju rubs his scent on to me so the creek\u2019s spirits won\u2019t harm me.The \u201cold people\u201d, as Gudju Gudju calls them, are here now \u2013 right there, he says, just over my shoulder, along the creek bank, where their heads were cut off and placed on stakes. He incants in Yidindji, rubs his hands under his armpits and wipes them softly on my face and torso.Queensland was, perhaps, the stage for the most excessive frontier violence against the continent\u2019s Indigenous people. A growing body of evidence suggests upwards of 50,000 people died at the hands of settlers, soldiers and native police in colonial Queensland alone.Skeleton creek is the site of one such massacre in the 1880s. That is corroborated by both Yidindji oral history, as conveyed in Murrumu\u2019s 2010 painting Skeleton Creek, and colonial records. The locals were massacred and decapitated by settlers and the native police, and their heads put on stakes at regular intervals along the creek to stop the local clans continually crossing the waterway to attack pastoralists.After Canberra, Murrumu plans to take his message overseas. I\u2019m anxious on his behalf; I ask how he intends to travel abroad without an Australian passport.\u201cWell, I don\u2019t need a passport,\u201d he says. \u201cPassports are for citizens and I\u2019m not a citizen. I am a tribal man and there are ways that I can\u2019t disclose to you that I can travel under protection and with what people would say is diplomatic immunity.\u201dAnd so we can probably add Customs to the list of commonwealth of institutions \u2013 I\u2019m guessing behind Asio, the Queensland and federal police \u2013 that are likely to have a heightened awareness of Murrumu from now on.Murrumu seems to expect this but insists he\u2019s not afraid. \u201cI don\u2019t fear for my life because what I\u2019m doing is the truth. But I don\u2019t want to be intercepted or interfered with and the Australians must respect that.\u201cAnd if their police or their courts or their magistrates touch me or interfere with me then it will be an act of slavery and crimes against the tribe.\u201dWe may have heard the last of Jeremy Geia but we have not heard the last, I suspect, of Murrumu Walubara Yidindji.", "tags": ["Indigenous Australians", "Australia news", "Queensland"], "title": "The man who renounced Australia"},{"date": "2014-08-26T02:13:36Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last April Jeremy Geia posted his driver\u2019s licence to the chief minister of the Australian Capital Territory, where he was then living, with a polite note explaining why he no longer needed it.Then he returned his passport and Medicare card to the federal government.Geia sent them back because he had decided to \u201cleave Australia\u201d while remaining in this continent, by reverting to his tribal name and adhering primarily to the law of his people, the Yidindji of north Queensland.While severing all official contact and contracts with Australian institutions, he made a few more momentous life decisions too, relinquishing a good salary by quitting his job as chief political correspondent in the Canberra press gallery for National Indigenous Television, giving away most of his things, and abandoning his bank accounts and 20 years\u2019 superannuation.We are talking in Cairns over breakfast (my shout; he carries barely enough change to park his borrowed car) about what inspired him to abandon what he calls the \u201cAustralian citizen ship\u201d.Murrumu Walubara Yidindji, as he is now, is highly adept with words \u2013 consistent with the reputation he honed in Canberra and elsewhere (among other stories he broke, Murrumu was the first western reporter to interview Julian Assange in London\u2019s Ecuadorian embassy) as a highly respected journalist. He footnotes his English aphorism with Latin interpretation and constantly riffs \u2013 even kind of raps \u2013 off the entendre of words he so precisely selects.He\u2019s a warm, enigmatic big bear of a bloke with whom conversation oscillates seamlessly from the intensely political (sovereignty and the sites where his people were massacred) to prosaic (football, kids, mutual friends, weather).To begin to understand Murrumu it\u2019s perhaps best to start here.\u201cSuperficies solo credit \u2013 what is attached to the land belongs to the land,\u201d he says.\u201cQui prior est tempore potior est jure \u2013 first in time is best in law.\u201dMurrumu\u2019s message could not be clearer: the Yidindji have been on their land \u2013 which incorporates all of Cairns, extends from the Russell river in the south to the Mowbray in the north, and reaches from beyond the Malbon Thompson range and out into the Coral Sea past the Franklin Islands \u2013 since the Dreaming began. Any additions to that land, such as buildings and roads, piers and jetties, he insists, belong to the country itself and the Yidindji.\u201cThe Australian government sees us as the original inhabitants and [as] the original peoples, and that says to me that our law is strongest in law and their law is Johnny Come Lately,\u201d he says.Having rescinded and revoked any allegiance to the Commonwealth of Australia, he says, \u201c1788 is fast becoming 1984\u201d.\u201cThe rapid dominance resulting from British contact has fast turned many tribal people into state citizens who live lives of voluntary servitude far removed from their tribal duties and laws.\u201dWhile it seems that not all practical detail of abandoning the citizen ship has yet been finessed, Murrumu has embarked on a campaign \u2013 beginning this week in Canberra where he\u2019ll meet foreign diplomats and speak at the Australian National University \u2013 to cultivate international awareness about the supremacy of Yidindji law and his departure from Australia.\u201cPeople that know me and know what I\u2019m doing are more than happy to support me because they know that what I\u2019m doing is the truth,\u201d he says. \u201cThe truth is that we were here before the British. The truth is that we hold sovereignty and dominion over these lands. The truth is that there\u2019ve been genocide and multiple crimes against humanity and massacres committed on this land that haven\u2019t been brought to ... justice.\u201cWe\u2019ve sent notices to the world letting them know that Yidindji tribal authority is here and [about] my wish to make an offer to negotiate and ... to settle with the ones who are benefiting from the unjust enrichments from using my ancestral lands and my child\u2019s property.\u201dHe has written to Tony Abbott, whom he knows personally. But so far he\u2019s only received an impersonal response from the prime minister\u2019s department.Murrumu says while he had been contemplating a return to tribal law for some time, the political instability, treachery, deceit and self-indulgence surrounding the Labor leadership, especially in mid-2013 when Kevin Rudd reassumed the prime ministership, helped crystallise his decision.\u201cEveryone in Parliament House was talking about it and at that stage I thought, \u2018This is childlike \u2013 how can people, including my people, improve their lives when this type of caper is going on?\u2019 \u201cWhile that circus was happening a lot of people who had put their faith in voting and in the political process had been disrespected. That, for me, was the tipping point and I made a decision to say, \u2018You know what? This is a system that\u2019s not for me. That\u2019s when I decided to jump off the citizen ship, leave Australia.\u201dDivesting personal possessions is liberating, says Murrumu, who, I\u2019m guessing, might be in his late 30s or early 40s.I do ask his age, and he says: \u201cI have been here since the beginning of time. My body has information that is tens of thousands of years old.\u201dFair enough.Today he owns seven T-shirts and one pair of trousers. Nothing else. No longer opening mail is a blessing, he says. Notably, for a bloke who\u2019s off the grid, he\u2019s still on the net and his emails arrive under his tribal moniker.He lives with friends including a Yidindji elder, Gudju Gudju, on the outskirts of Cairns where the fecund, black earth, with its countless worry lines of rivulets and streams, begins to rise gently into the dense, lush rainforest of the ancient range.\u201cAnd I do still love my English football \u2013 Liverpool. And English breakfast tea,\u201d he volunteers.Then he laughs because ... well, yes, the irony, which is pretty acute, is not lost on him. But then again, he\u2019s not declaring war on Britain and Australia, \u201cjust peacefully going back to my original law\u201d. While plenty may \u2013 and will \u2013 disagree, I guess Murrumu is still entitled to support whichever English Premier League team he likes and imbibe whatever cha, so long as it\u2019s on someone else\u2019s flat screen and there are mates willing to spot him a teabag or two.As we drive to the place where he sleeps (\u201cI live in here,\u201d he insists, tapping his chest, in a way that prompts you to think about your own life) a police car passes on the other side of the highway.\u201cPolicy enforcement officers,\u201d Murrumu says, shaking his head.Officers who would doubtless be confused should they pull Murrumu over and demand to see his licence.\u201cYeah, I don\u2019t hold a licence because it had the incorrect name on it [Jeremy Geia] and furthermore I did not want to hold a licence because the supreme creator here is Gayaburra Goopi and he gave the tribal people the law to uphold and this gives us the supreme authority on the land,\u201d he says.He explains that he and a few others who are following his example carry only a document, created by him, that explains their tribal identity. Yidindji number plates and perhaps even currency are planned. In the meantime Murrumu is growing food and bartering, sometimes with his own impressive paintings, demand for which is growing.\u201cWho created the licences ... and all these other things that Australian citizens use? It\u2019s the crown or the commonwealth. So they belong to them. And you know, give back to Caesar what belongs to Rome ... this is your stuff, so take it back.\u201dAbout here I start to wonder if Murrumu is having just a little bit of a lend. He says that if stopped by the Australian authorities he would identify himself as a tribal man who lives outside Australia and he expects that his status would be respected.And I also wonder if he\u2019s having me on when he acknowledges the advantages of living in Australia, such as Medicare and public hospitals and schools, but reiterates \u201cwhat is attached to the land belongs to the land\u201d and \u201cif this is tribal land then surely all these buildings belong to the tribe\u201d, which leads inevitably to this exchange:\u201cOK, so your kid gets sick and needs to go to hospital and he needs to go to school, how do you deal with that practicality?\u201dMurrumu: \u201cWell, we just take them to school, and they get an education.\u201d\u201cBut that is an education provided by the state.\u201dMurrumu: \u201cYeah, but that school\u2019s on my land.\u201d\u201cThe same with the hospital, right?\u201d\u201cThat\u2019s exactly right.\u201dBut by the time we get to Gudju Gudju\u2019s house, Murrumu has mentioned perhaps half a dozen times the massacre of various tribal people, his own included, by soldiers, settlers and police that began with the arrival of the first citizen ship from England in 1788.Yes, he is provoking an important conversation by just about any verbal means possible. But in the end I am left in no doubt that he is entirely serious and that his resolve is sure. He\u2019s not having a lend.I meet Gudju Gudju, who takes me across the road to a grassy lot that abuts Skeleton creek. We stand beneath the impressive canopy of a monolithic raintree, imported from the Americas long after the British arrived, and Gudju Gudju rubs his scent on to me so the creek\u2019s spirits won\u2019t harm me.The \u201cold people\u201d, as Gudju Gudju calls them, are here now \u2013 right there, he says, just over my shoulder, along the creek bank, where their heads were cut off and placed on stakes. He incants in Yidindji, rubs his hands under his armpits and wipes them softly on my face and torso.Queensland was, perhaps, the stage for the most excessive frontier violence against the continent\u2019s Indigenous people. A growing body of evidence suggests upwards of 50,000 people died at the hands of settlers, soldiers and native police in colonial Queensland alone.Skeleton creek is the site of one such massacre in the 1880s. That is corroborated by both Yidindji oral history, as conveyed in Murrumu\u2019s 2010 painting Skeleton Creek, and colonial records. The locals were massacred and decapitated by settlers and the native police, and their heads put on stakes at regular intervals along the creek to stop the local clans continually crossing the waterway to attack pastoralists.After Canberra, Murrumu plans to take his message overseas. I\u2019m anxious on his behalf; I ask how he intends to travel abroad without an Australian passport.\u201cWell, I don\u2019t need a passport,\u201d he says. \u201cPassports are for citizens and I\u2019m not a citizen. I am a tribal man and there are ways that I can\u2019t disclose to you that I can travel under protection and with what people would say is diplomatic immunity.\u201dAnd so we can probably add Customs to the list of commonwealth of institutions \u2013 I\u2019m guessing behind Asio, the Queensland and federal police \u2013 that are likely to have a heightened awareness of Murrumu from now on.Murrumu seems to expect this but insists he\u2019s not afraid. \u201cI don\u2019t fear for my life because what I\u2019m doing is the truth. But I don\u2019t want to be intercepted or interfered with and the Australians must respect that.\u201cAnd if their police or their courts or their magistrates touch me or interfere with me then it will be an act of slavery and crimes against the tribe.\u201dWe may have heard the last of Jeremy Geia but we have not heard the last, I suspect, of Murrumu Walubara Yidindji.", "tags": ["Indigenous Australians", "Australia news", "Queensland"], "title": "The man who renounced Australia"},{"date": "2014-07-17T01:51:06Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia\u2019s carbon price has been repealed, leaving the nation with no legislated policy to achieve even the minimum 5% greenhouse emissions reduction target it has inscribed in international agreements.After eight years of bitter political debate, during which climate policy dominated three election campaigns and contributed to the demise of two prime ministers, after last week\u2019s Senate drama in which the repeal was again defeated and this week\u2019s lengthy last gasp debate, the Senate has now finally voted to make good Tony Abbott\u2019s \u201cpledge in blood\u201d to \u201caxe the tax\u201d.The government was backed by seven of the new crossbench senators, including the three Palmer United party senators, Liberal Democrat senator David Leyonhjelm, Family First senator Bob Day, Motoring Enthusiast senator Ricky Muir, DLP senator John Madigan. Independent senator Nick Xenophon was unwell.Only the Australian Labor party and the Greens voted against repealing the carbon pricing scheme they introduced, which came into effect two years ago.Leader of the government in the Senate and former climate change minister Penny Wong said repealing the bills meant \u201cthis nation will have walked away from a credible and efficient response to climate change\u201d.Wong said the prime minister Tony Abbott had \u201cstaked his political career \u2026 on fearmongering and scaremongering and that is what this debate has been about for years\u201d.\u201cI think future generations will look back on these bills and they will be appalled \u2026 at the short-sighted, opportunistic selfish politics of those opposite and Mr Abbott will go down as one of the most short-sighted, selfish and small people ever to occupy the office of prime minister.\u201dGovernment backbencher Ian Macdonald accused opposition parties of being hypocrites for refusing to accept the will of the voters and said that while he had \u201can open mind\u201d, he would like to point out that Brisbane had recently had its coldest day in 113 years.Greens leader Christine Milne said it was \u201ca vote for failure\u201d amid interjections from government backbenchers that she should \u201cget over it\u201d because the parliament was \u201crespecting the will of the Australian people\u201d.The bills passed 39:32. There was none of the jubilation that accompanied their passage in the lower house, but the leader of the government in the Senate, Eric Abetz, shook hands with backbench senator Cory Bernardi, who led the revolt against Malcolm Turnbull when, as leader of the opposition, he backed Labor\u2019s carbon pricing scheme.The tax was $25.40 a tonne and was scheduled to move to the floating and lower international price in 12 months.The repeal will cost the budget around $7bn over the next four years as around 350 businesses, mainly electricity generators and big manufacturers, no longer have to pay the tax.The government argues the carbon pricing scheme has been ineffective, but national emissions have actually fallen by 0.8% in the first calendar year of its operation, the largest fall in 24 years of records. Since the tax began, emissions from the east coast electricity market have fallen 11%, but emissions from other sources \u2013 especially coal and gas mining have increased.The government also says households will be better off by an average $550 \u2013 the amount treasury estimated prices would rise when the tax was introduced \u2013 but supermarkets and airlines are now saying consumers should not expect price reductions.The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission\u2019s special powers are to monitor and enforce only electricity and gas price reductions. Electricity bills will rise, but by an estimated 9% less than they otherwise would. Gas bills will rise by an estimated 7% less than they would have with the tax still in place.The Abbott government says it will now achieve the target of a 5% reduction in Australian emissions compared with 2000 levels by 2020 with its Direct Action policy, which will offer $2.5bn in competitive grants over the next four years to companies and organisations voluntarily reducing emissions. The budget actually allocated only $1.14bn over the four-year forward estimates for the scheme. The government said this is because they will pay on delivery of the abatement. The policy is voluntary and puts no overall cap on emissions.The government itself has not modelled Direct Action (Abbott said he would prefer to \u201chave a crack\u201d), but two other modelling exercises found even the 5% cut would cost far more than $2.5bn, and the independent climate change authority \u2013 which the government is seeking to abolish \u2013 has said Australia\u2019s \u201cfair share\u201d of international emissions reductions has now increased to between 15% and 19% by 2020.The government says it is sure Direct Action will meet the 5% target, but Abbott has said he will not allocate any more money even if it does not, and has not said how he would make deeper reductions in Australia\u2019s emissions which are likely to be required after the United Nations meeting to try to forge a new post-2020 climate agreement in Paris next year.Malcolm Turnbull warned of the long-term costs of the policy in a speech to parliament after he was deposed as leader because of his support for an emissions trading scheme, when he said Direct Action style schemes were \u201ca recipe for fiscal recklessness on a grand scale\u201d.The carbon price repeal bills were voted down in the Senate last week after a last-minute change to a Palmer United party amendment was ruled to be unconstitutional by the clerk of the Senate. The government had been prepared to accept the amendment but then changed it again over the weekend after business groups raised major concerns. Business groups welcomed the repeal as a \u201cfirst step\u201d towards achieving an effective emissions reduction policy.The Business Council of Australia, the Minerals Council of Australia and the Australian Industry Group called on the government to \u201cdevelop and implement a cost-effective emissions reduction fund\u201d as \u201cpart of a toolkit of measures to reduce emissions\u201d.But the Climate Institute thinktank said that \u201cby repealing laws that price and limit carbon pollution, Australia today became the world\u2019s first country to dismantle a functioning and effective carbon market, taking a monumentally reckless backward leap even as other major countries are stepping up climate action\u201d.And the Australian Conservation Foundation said: \u201cThis backwards step makes Australia an international embarrassment.\u201dDescribing it as a \u201ctragic day\u201d, Greens leader senator Christine Milne said after the vote that \u201cthe big polluters should pay for the destruction they are causing to the planet\u201d. She accused the Coalition of \u201cwanting to cost-shift the burden of climate change onto the community and away from the people who are causing it\u201d.Both Labor and the Greens say they remain committed to carbon pricing as the best way to reduce emissions.Speaking after the vote, agriculture minister Barnaby Joyce said the tax had imposed high costs on families, and questioned whether it was needed, saying \u201clook at the weather today, look at the way you are dressed, no one thinks it is too hot\u201d.\u201cI believe there is climate change happening, I just don\u2019t believe we are going to change it with a broad-based consumption tax.\u201d\u201cI am glad the carbon tax has been axed \u2026 we have Direct Action and there are programs that hopefully can assist \u2026 but the idea that somehow we inflict on every household the fact that we would attack their power prices to the Australian taxation offices. They took it to the Australian people and the Australian people rejected it,\u201d Joyce said.", "tags": ["Carbon tax", "Australian politics", "Australia news", "Coalition", "Clive Palmer", "Environment", "Tony Abbott", "Australian Greens", "Penny Wong", "Labor party", "Christine Milne", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Climate change", "Gas", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Asia Pacific", "Barnaby Joyce", "Liberal party"], "title": "Australia kills off carbon tax"},{"date": "2014-08-26T02:13:36Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last April Jeremy Geia posted his driver\u2019s licence to the chief minister of the Australian Capital Territory, where he was then living, with a polite note explaining why he no longer needed it.Then he returned his passport and Medicare card to the federal government.Geia sent them back because he had decided to \u201cleave Australia\u201d while remaining in this continent, by reverting to his tribal name and adhering primarily to the law of his people, the Yidindji of north Queensland.While severing all official contact and contracts with Australian institutions, he made a few more momentous life decisions too, relinquishing a good salary by quitting his job as chief political correspondent in the Canberra press gallery for National Indigenous Television, giving away most of his things, and abandoning his bank accounts and 20 years\u2019 superannuation.We are talking in Cairns over breakfast (my shout; he carries barely enough change to park his borrowed car) about what inspired him to abandon what he calls the \u201cAustralian citizen ship\u201d.Murrumu Walubara Yidindji, as he is now, is highly adept with words \u2013 consistent with the reputation he honed in Canberra and elsewhere (among other stories he broke, Murrumu was the first western reporter to interview Julian Assange in London\u2019s Ecuadorian embassy) as a highly respected journalist. He footnotes his English aphorism with Latin interpretation and constantly riffs \u2013 even kind of raps \u2013 off the entendre of words he so precisely selects.He\u2019s a warm, enigmatic big bear of a bloke with whom conversation oscillates seamlessly from the intensely political (sovereignty and the sites where his people were massacred) to prosaic (football, kids, mutual friends, weather).To begin to understand Murrumu it\u2019s perhaps best to start here.\u201cSuperficies solo credit \u2013 what is attached to the land belongs to the land,\u201d he says.\u201cQui prior est tempore potior est jure \u2013 first in time is best in law.\u201dMurrumu\u2019s message could not be clearer: the Yidindji have been on their land \u2013 which incorporates all of Cairns, extends from the Russell river in the south to the Mowbray in the north, and reaches from beyond the Malbon Thompson range and out into the Coral Sea past the Franklin Islands \u2013 since the Dreaming began. Any additions to that land, such as buildings and roads, piers and jetties, he insists, belong to the country itself and the Yidindji.\u201cThe Australian government sees us as the original inhabitants and [as] the original peoples, and that says to me that our law is strongest in law and their law is Johnny Come Lately,\u201d he says.Having rescinded and revoked any allegiance to the Commonwealth of Australia, he says, \u201c1788 is fast becoming 1984\u201d.\u201cThe rapid dominance resulting from British contact has fast turned many tribal people into state citizens who live lives of voluntary servitude far removed from their tribal duties and laws.\u201dWhile it seems that not all practical detail of abandoning the citizen ship has yet been finessed, Murrumu has embarked on a campaign \u2013 beginning this week in Canberra where he\u2019ll meet foreign diplomats and speak at the Australian National University \u2013 to cultivate international awareness about the supremacy of Yidindji law and his departure from Australia.\u201cPeople that know me and know what I\u2019m doing are more than happy to support me because they know that what I\u2019m doing is the truth,\u201d he says. \u201cThe truth is that we were here before the British. The truth is that we hold sovereignty and dominion over these lands. The truth is that there\u2019ve been genocide and multiple crimes against humanity and massacres committed on this land that haven\u2019t been brought to ... justice.\u201cWe\u2019ve sent notices to the world letting them know that Yidindji tribal authority is here and [about] my wish to make an offer to negotiate and ... to settle with the ones who are benefiting from the unjust enrichments from using my ancestral lands and my child\u2019s property.\u201dHe has written to Tony Abbott, whom he knows personally. But so far he\u2019s only received an impersonal response from the prime minister\u2019s department.Murrumu says while he had been contemplating a return to tribal law for some time, the political instability, treachery, deceit and self-indulgence surrounding the Labor leadership, especially in mid-2013 when Kevin Rudd reassumed the prime ministership, helped crystallise his decision.\u201cEveryone in Parliament House was talking about it and at that stage I thought, \u2018This is childlike \u2013 how can people, including my people, improve their lives when this type of caper is going on?\u2019 \u201cWhile that circus was happening a lot of people who had put their faith in voting and in the political process had been disrespected. That, for me, was the tipping point and I made a decision to say, \u2018You know what? This is a system that\u2019s not for me. That\u2019s when I decided to jump off the citizen ship, leave Australia.\u201dDivesting personal possessions is liberating, says Murrumu, who, I\u2019m guessing, might be in his late 30s or early 40s.I do ask his age, and he says: \u201cI have been here since the beginning of time. My body has information that is tens of thousands of years old.\u201dFair enough.Today he owns seven T-shirts and one pair of trousers. Nothing else. No longer opening mail is a blessing, he says. Notably, for a bloke who\u2019s off the grid, he\u2019s still on the net and his emails arrive under his tribal moniker.He lives with friends including a Yidindji elder, Gudju Gudju, on the outskirts of Cairns where the fecund, black earth, with its countless worry lines of rivulets and streams, begins to rise gently into the dense, lush rainforest of the ancient range.\u201cAnd I do still love my English football \u2013 Liverpool. And English breakfast tea,\u201d he volunteers.Then he laughs because ... well, yes, the irony, which is pretty acute, is not lost on him. But then again, he\u2019s not declaring war on Britain and Australia, \u201cjust peacefully going back to my original law\u201d. While plenty may \u2013 and will \u2013 disagree, I guess Murrumu is still entitled to support whichever English Premier League team he likes and imbibe whatever cha, so long as it\u2019s on someone else\u2019s flat screen and there are mates willing to spot him a teabag or two.As we drive to the place where he sleeps (\u201cI live in here,\u201d he insists, tapping his chest, in a way that prompts you to think about your own life) a police car passes on the other side of the highway.\u201cPolicy enforcement officers,\u201d Murrumu says, shaking his head.Officers who would doubtless be confused should they pull Murrumu over and demand to see his licence.\u201cYeah, I don\u2019t hold a licence because it had the incorrect name on it [Jeremy Geia] and furthermore I did not want to hold a licence because the supreme creator here is Gayaburra Goopi and he gave the tribal people the law to uphold and this gives us the supreme authority on the land,\u201d he says.He explains that he and a few others who are following his example carry only a document, created by him, that explains their tribal identity. Yidindji number plates and perhaps even currency are planned. In the meantime Murrumu is growing food and bartering, sometimes with his own impressive paintings, demand for which is growing.\u201cWho created the licences ... and all these other things that Australian citizens use? It\u2019s the crown or the commonwealth. So they belong to them. And you know, give back to Caesar what belongs to Rome ... this is your stuff, so take it back.\u201dAbout here I start to wonder if Murrumu is having just a little bit of a lend. He says that if stopped by the Australian authorities he would identify himself as a tribal man who lives outside Australia and he expects that his status would be respected.And I also wonder if he\u2019s having me on when he acknowledges the advantages of living in Australia, such as Medicare and public hospitals and schools, but reiterates \u201cwhat is attached to the land belongs to the land\u201d and \u201cif this is tribal land then surely all these buildings belong to the tribe\u201d, which leads inevitably to this exchange:\u201cOK, so your kid gets sick and needs to go to hospital and he needs to go to school, how do you deal with that practicality?\u201dMurrumu: \u201cWell, we just take them to school, and they get an education.\u201d\u201cBut that is an education provided by the state.\u201dMurrumu: \u201cYeah, but that school\u2019s on my land.\u201d\u201cThe same with the hospital, right?\u201d\u201cThat\u2019s exactly right.\u201dBut by the time we get to Gudju Gudju\u2019s house, Murrumu has mentioned perhaps half a dozen times the massacre of various tribal people, his own included, by soldiers, settlers and police that began with the arrival of the first citizen ship from England in 1788.Yes, he is provoking an important conversation by just about any verbal means possible. But in the end I am left in no doubt that he is entirely serious and that his resolve is sure. He\u2019s not having a lend.I meet Gudju Gudju, who takes me across the road to a grassy lot that abuts Skeleton creek. We stand beneath the impressive canopy of a monolithic raintree, imported from the Americas long after the British arrived, and Gudju Gudju rubs his scent on to me so the creek\u2019s spirits won\u2019t harm me.The \u201cold people\u201d, as Gudju Gudju calls them, are here now \u2013 right there, he says, just over my shoulder, along the creek bank, where their heads were cut off and placed on stakes. He incants in Yidindji, rubs his hands under his armpits and wipes them softly on my face and torso.Queensland was, perhaps, the stage for the most excessive frontier violence against the continent\u2019s Indigenous people. A growing body of evidence suggests upwards of 50,000 people died at the hands of settlers, soldiers and native police in colonial Queensland alone.Skeleton creek is the site of one such massacre in the 1880s. That is corroborated by both Yidindji oral history, as conveyed in Murrumu\u2019s 2010 painting Skeleton Creek, and colonial records. The locals were massacred and decapitated by settlers and the native police, and their heads put on stakes at regular intervals along the creek to stop the local clans continually crossing the waterway to attack pastoralists.After Canberra, Murrumu plans to take his message overseas. I\u2019m anxious on his behalf; I ask how he intends to travel abroad without an Australian passport.\u201cWell, I don\u2019t need a passport,\u201d he says. \u201cPassports are for citizens and I\u2019m not a citizen. I am a tribal man and there are ways that I can\u2019t disclose to you that I can travel under protection and with what people would say is diplomatic immunity.\u201dAnd so we can probably add Customs to the list of commonwealth of institutions \u2013 I\u2019m guessing behind Asio, the Queensland and federal police \u2013 that are likely to have a heightened awareness of Murrumu from now on.Murrumu seems to expect this but insists he\u2019s not afraid. \u201cI don\u2019t fear for my life because what I\u2019m doing is the truth. But I don\u2019t want to be intercepted or interfered with and the Australians must respect that.\u201cAnd if their police or their courts or their magistrates touch me or interfere with me then it will be an act of slavery and crimes against the tribe.\u201dWe may have heard the last of Jeremy Geia but we have not heard the last, I suspect, of Murrumu Walubara Yidindji.", "tags": ["Indigenous Australians", "Australia news", "Queensland"], "title": "The man who renounced Australia"},{"date": "2014-07-17T01:51:06Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia\u2019s carbon price has been repealed, leaving the nation with no legislated policy to achieve even the minimum 5% greenhouse emissions reduction target it has inscribed in international agreements.After eight years of bitter political debate, during which climate policy dominated three election campaigns and contributed to the demise of two prime ministers, after last week\u2019s Senate drama in which the repeal was again defeated and this week\u2019s lengthy last gasp debate, the Senate has now finally voted to make good Tony Abbott\u2019s \u201cpledge in blood\u201d to \u201caxe the tax\u201d.The government was backed by seven of the new crossbench senators, including the three Palmer United party senators, Liberal Democrat senator David Leyonhjelm, Family First senator Bob Day, Motoring Enthusiast senator Ricky Muir, DLP senator John Madigan. Independent senator Nick Xenophon was unwell.Only the Australian Labor party and the Greens voted against repealing the carbon pricing scheme they introduced, which came into effect two years ago.Leader of the government in the Senate and former climate change minister Penny Wong said repealing the bills meant \u201cthis nation will have walked away from a credible and efficient response to climate change\u201d.Wong said the prime minister Tony Abbott had \u201cstaked his political career \u2026 on fearmongering and scaremongering and that is what this debate has been about for years\u201d.\u201cI think future generations will look back on these bills and they will be appalled \u2026 at the short-sighted, opportunistic selfish politics of those opposite and Mr Abbott will go down as one of the most short-sighted, selfish and small people ever to occupy the office of prime minister.\u201dGovernment backbencher Ian Macdonald accused opposition parties of being hypocrites for refusing to accept the will of the voters and said that while he had \u201can open mind\u201d, he would like to point out that Brisbane had recently had its coldest day in 113 years.Greens leader Christine Milne said it was \u201ca vote for failure\u201d amid interjections from government backbenchers that she should \u201cget over it\u201d because the parliament was \u201crespecting the will of the Australian people\u201d.The bills passed 39:32. There was none of the jubilation that accompanied their passage in the lower house, but the leader of the government in the Senate, Eric Abetz, shook hands with backbench senator Cory Bernardi, who led the revolt against Malcolm Turnbull when, as leader of the opposition, he backed Labor\u2019s carbon pricing scheme.The tax was $25.40 a tonne and was scheduled to move to the floating and lower international price in 12 months.The repeal will cost the budget around $7bn over the next four years as around 350 businesses, mainly electricity generators and big manufacturers, no longer have to pay the tax.The government argues the carbon pricing scheme has been ineffective, but national emissions have actually fallen by 0.8% in the first calendar year of its operation, the largest fall in 24 years of records. Since the tax began, emissions from the east coast electricity market have fallen 11%, but emissions from other sources \u2013 especially coal and gas mining have increased.The government also says households will be better off by an average $550 \u2013 the amount treasury estimated prices would rise when the tax was introduced \u2013 but supermarkets and airlines are now saying consumers should not expect price reductions.The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission\u2019s special powers are to monitor and enforce only electricity and gas price reductions. Electricity bills will rise, but by an estimated 9% less than they otherwise would. Gas bills will rise by an estimated 7% less than they would have with the tax still in place.The Abbott government says it will now achieve the target of a 5% reduction in Australian emissions compared with 2000 levels by 2020 with its Direct Action policy, which will offer $2.5bn in competitive grants over the next four years to companies and organisations voluntarily reducing emissions. The budget actually allocated only $1.14bn over the four-year forward estimates for the scheme. The government said this is because they will pay on delivery of the abatement. The policy is voluntary and puts no overall cap on emissions.The government itself has not modelled Direct Action (Abbott said he would prefer to \u201chave a crack\u201d), but two other modelling exercises found even the 5% cut would cost far more than $2.5bn, and the independent climate change authority \u2013 which the government is seeking to abolish \u2013 has said Australia\u2019s \u201cfair share\u201d of international emissions reductions has now increased to between 15% and 19% by 2020.The government says it is sure Direct Action will meet the 5% target, but Abbott has said he will not allocate any more money even if it does not, and has not said how he would make deeper reductions in Australia\u2019s emissions which are likely to be required after the United Nations meeting to try to forge a new post-2020 climate agreement in Paris next year.Malcolm Turnbull warned of the long-term costs of the policy in a speech to parliament after he was deposed as leader because of his support for an emissions trading scheme, when he said Direct Action style schemes were \u201ca recipe for fiscal recklessness on a grand scale\u201d.The carbon price repeal bills were voted down in the Senate last week after a last-minute change to a Palmer United party amendment was ruled to be unconstitutional by the clerk of the Senate. The government had been prepared to accept the amendment but then changed it again over the weekend after business groups raised major concerns. Business groups welcomed the repeal as a \u201cfirst step\u201d towards achieving an effective emissions reduction policy.The Business Council of Australia, the Minerals Council of Australia and the Australian Industry Group called on the government to \u201cdevelop and implement a cost-effective emissions reduction fund\u201d as \u201cpart of a toolkit of measures to reduce emissions\u201d.But the Climate Institute thinktank said that \u201cby repealing laws that price and limit carbon pollution, Australia today became the world\u2019s first country to dismantle a functioning and effective carbon market, taking a monumentally reckless backward leap even as other major countries are stepping up climate action\u201d.And the Australian Conservation Foundation said: \u201cThis backwards step makes Australia an international embarrassment.\u201dDescribing it as a \u201ctragic day\u201d, Greens leader senator Christine Milne said after the vote that \u201cthe big polluters should pay for the destruction they are causing to the planet\u201d. She accused the Coalition of \u201cwanting to cost-shift the burden of climate change onto the community and away from the people who are causing it\u201d.Both Labor and the Greens say they remain committed to carbon pricing as the best way to reduce emissions.Speaking after the vote, agriculture minister Barnaby Joyce said the tax had imposed high costs on families, and questioned whether it was needed, saying \u201clook at the weather today, look at the way you are dressed, no one thinks it is too hot\u201d.\u201cI believe there is climate change happening, I just don\u2019t believe we are going to change it with a broad-based consumption tax.\u201d\u201cI am glad the carbon tax has been axed \u2026 we have Direct Action and there are programs that hopefully can assist \u2026 but the idea that somehow we inflict on every household the fact that we would attack their power prices to the Australian taxation offices. They took it to the Australian people and the Australian people rejected it,\u201d Joyce said.", "tags": ["Carbon tax", "Australian politics", "Australia news", "Coalition", "Clive Palmer", "Environment", "Tony Abbott", "Australian Greens", "Penny Wong", "Labor party", "Christine Milne", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Climate change", "Gas", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Asia Pacific", "Barnaby Joyce", "Liberal party"], "title": "Australia kills off carbon tax"},{"date": "2014-09-23T13:00:15Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It\u2019s 6am on a winter\u2019s morning: mist is rising off the lake, and the kookaburras laugh in a nearby gum, challenging the laggards to get up and enjoy yet another sunny day in the low-to-mid-20s. That\u2019s 20C, not your Pommy 20 Fahrenheit \u2013 it never gets that cold here.We turn over in bed. No need for us oldies to get up just yet, though our friendly juvenile whip-bird has now joined the morning chorus, lulling us back to sleep.Boreen Point is 20km from civilisation, by road or by river, but many more from the cares of the everyday world. Ready to retire from the city life 10 years ago, we were fortunate in finding the right place at the right price at the right time. We only needed a six-month babysitting sojourn with our grandchildren in Kirriemuir, Scotland, to convince us that we could easily adapt to life in a small community: in this case, one that houses less than 200 people, after a lifetime spent, in my case, living and working in cities from 1 to 8 million, here in Australia and in Britain.Our little community sometimes swells, especially at holiday times and when there is a sailing regatta, or our international arts festival The Floating Land is happening, to almost 1,000: every spare bed in the town is occupied. Many of us are retired, but a growing number of young families have come here to share the tranquillity and embrace our natural environment. We respect our neighbours\u2019 privacy, while knowing that help will be at hand when it is needed.We\u2019re high on a hill, a mere 6km from the ocean, with the sound of the breaking waves soothing us to sleep at night. Lake Cootharaba on the pristine Noosa river separates us from the beach to the east, while to the north, west and south, national parks and state forests surround us. We have a village store and a convivial hotel, the Apollonian, just around the corner. If we don\u2019t feel like driving, a $1 flexi-taxi service will take us to the shops and services 20km away.What more could anybody ask for?Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Queensland"], "title": "Letter from Australia: Point to point"},{"date": "2014-08-26T02:13:36Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last April Jeremy Geia posted his driver\u2019s licence to the chief minister of the Australian Capital Territory, where he was then living, with a polite note explaining why he no longer needed it.Then he returned his passport and Medicare card to the federal government.Geia sent them back because he had decided to \u201cleave Australia\u201d while remaining in this continent, by reverting to his tribal name and adhering primarily to the law of his people, the Yidindji of north Queensland.While severing all official contact and contracts with Australian institutions, he made a few more momentous life decisions too, relinquishing a good salary by quitting his job as chief political correspondent in the Canberra press gallery for National Indigenous Television, giving away most of his things, and abandoning his bank accounts and 20 years\u2019 superannuation.We are talking in Cairns over breakfast (my shout; he carries barely enough change to park his borrowed car) about what inspired him to abandon what he calls the \u201cAustralian citizen ship\u201d.Murrumu Walubara Yidindji, as he is now, is highly adept with words \u2013 consistent with the reputation he honed in Canberra and elsewhere (among other stories he broke, Murrumu was the first western reporter to interview Julian Assange in London\u2019s Ecuadorian embassy) as a highly respected journalist. He footnotes his English aphorism with Latin interpretation and constantly riffs \u2013 even kind of raps \u2013 off the entendre of words he so precisely selects.He\u2019s a warm, enigmatic big bear of a bloke with whom conversation oscillates seamlessly from the intensely political (sovereignty and the sites where his people were massacred) to prosaic (football, kids, mutual friends, weather).To begin to understand Murrumu it\u2019s perhaps best to start here.\u201cSuperficies solo credit \u2013 what is attached to the land belongs to the land,\u201d he says.\u201cQui prior est tempore potior est jure \u2013 first in time is best in law.\u201dMurrumu\u2019s message could not be clearer: the Yidindji have been on their land \u2013 which incorporates all of Cairns, extends from the Russell river in the south to the Mowbray in the north, and reaches from beyond the Malbon Thompson range and out into the Coral Sea past the Franklin Islands \u2013 since the Dreaming began. Any additions to that land, such as buildings and roads, piers and jetties, he insists, belong to the country itself and the Yidindji.\u201cThe Australian government sees us as the original inhabitants and [as] the original peoples, and that says to me that our law is strongest in law and their law is Johnny Come Lately,\u201d he says.Having rescinded and revoked any allegiance to the Commonwealth of Australia, he says, \u201c1788 is fast becoming 1984\u201d.\u201cThe rapid dominance resulting from British contact has fast turned many tribal people into state citizens who live lives of voluntary servitude far removed from their tribal duties and laws.\u201dWhile it seems that not all practical detail of abandoning the citizen ship has yet been finessed, Murrumu has embarked on a campaign \u2013 beginning this week in Canberra where he\u2019ll meet foreign diplomats and speak at the Australian National University \u2013 to cultivate international awareness about the supremacy of Yidindji law and his departure from Australia.\u201cPeople that know me and know what I\u2019m doing are more than happy to support me because they know that what I\u2019m doing is the truth,\u201d he says. \u201cThe truth is that we were here before the British. The truth is that we hold sovereignty and dominion over these lands. The truth is that there\u2019ve been genocide and multiple crimes against humanity and massacres committed on this land that haven\u2019t been brought to ... justice.\u201cWe\u2019ve sent notices to the world letting them know that Yidindji tribal authority is here and [about] my wish to make an offer to negotiate and ... to settle with the ones who are benefiting from the unjust enrichments from using my ancestral lands and my child\u2019s property.\u201dHe has written to Tony Abbott, whom he knows personally. But so far he\u2019s only received an impersonal response from the prime minister\u2019s department.Murrumu says while he had been contemplating a return to tribal law for some time, the political instability, treachery, deceit and self-indulgence surrounding the Labor leadership, especially in mid-2013 when Kevin Rudd reassumed the prime ministership, helped crystallise his decision.\u201cEveryone in Parliament House was talking about it and at that stage I thought, \u2018This is childlike \u2013 how can people, including my people, improve their lives when this type of caper is going on?\u2019 \u201cWhile that circus was happening a lot of people who had put their faith in voting and in the political process had been disrespected. That, for me, was the tipping point and I made a decision to say, \u2018You know what? This is a system that\u2019s not for me. That\u2019s when I decided to jump off the citizen ship, leave Australia.\u201dDivesting personal possessions is liberating, says Murrumu, who, I\u2019m guessing, might be in his late 30s or early 40s.I do ask his age, and he says: \u201cI have been here since the beginning of time. My body has information that is tens of thousands of years old.\u201dFair enough.Today he owns seven T-shirts and one pair of trousers. Nothing else. No longer opening mail is a blessing, he says. Notably, for a bloke who\u2019s off the grid, he\u2019s still on the net and his emails arrive under his tribal moniker.He lives with friends including a Yidindji elder, Gudju Gudju, on the outskirts of Cairns where the fecund, black earth, with its countless worry lines of rivulets and streams, begins to rise gently into the dense, lush rainforest of the ancient range.\u201cAnd I do still love my English football \u2013 Liverpool. And English breakfast tea,\u201d he volunteers.Then he laughs because ... well, yes, the irony, which is pretty acute, is not lost on him. But then again, he\u2019s not declaring war on Britain and Australia, \u201cjust peacefully going back to my original law\u201d. While plenty may \u2013 and will \u2013 disagree, I guess Murrumu is still entitled to support whichever English Premier League team he likes and imbibe whatever cha, so long as it\u2019s on someone else\u2019s flat screen and there are mates willing to spot him a teabag or two.As we drive to the place where he sleeps (\u201cI live in here,\u201d he insists, tapping his chest, in a way that prompts you to think about your own life) a police car passes on the other side of the highway.\u201cPolicy enforcement officers,\u201d Murrumu says, shaking his head.Officers who would doubtless be confused should they pull Murrumu over and demand to see his licence.\u201cYeah, I don\u2019t hold a licence because it had the incorrect name on it [Jeremy Geia] and furthermore I did not want to hold a licence because the supreme creator here is Gayaburra Goopi and he gave the tribal people the law to uphold and this gives us the supreme authority on the land,\u201d he says.He explains that he and a few others who are following his example carry only a document, created by him, that explains their tribal identity. Yidindji number plates and perhaps even currency are planned. In the meantime Murrumu is growing food and bartering, sometimes with his own impressive paintings, demand for which is growing.\u201cWho created the licences ... and all these other things that Australian citizens use? It\u2019s the crown or the commonwealth. So they belong to them. And you know, give back to Caesar what belongs to Rome ... this is your stuff, so take it back.\u201dAbout here I start to wonder if Murrumu is having just a little bit of a lend. He says that if stopped by the Australian authorities he would identify himself as a tribal man who lives outside Australia and he expects that his status would be respected.And I also wonder if he\u2019s having me on when he acknowledges the advantages of living in Australia, such as Medicare and public hospitals and schools, but reiterates \u201cwhat is attached to the land belongs to the land\u201d and \u201cif this is tribal land then surely all these buildings belong to the tribe\u201d, which leads inevitably to this exchange:\u201cOK, so your kid gets sick and needs to go to hospital and he needs to go to school, how do you deal with that practicality?\u201dMurrumu: \u201cWell, we just take them to school, and they get an education.\u201d\u201cBut that is an education provided by the state.\u201dMurrumu: \u201cYeah, but that school\u2019s on my land.\u201d\u201cThe same with the hospital, right?\u201d\u201cThat\u2019s exactly right.\u201dBut by the time we get to Gudju Gudju\u2019s house, Murrumu has mentioned perhaps half a dozen times the massacre of various tribal people, his own included, by soldiers, settlers and police that began with the arrival of the first citizen ship from England in 1788.Yes, he is provoking an important conversation by just about any verbal means possible. But in the end I am left in no doubt that he is entirely serious and that his resolve is sure. He\u2019s not having a lend.I meet Gudju Gudju, who takes me across the road to a grassy lot that abuts Skeleton creek. We stand beneath the impressive canopy of a monolithic raintree, imported from the Americas long after the British arrived, and Gudju Gudju rubs his scent on to me so the creek\u2019s spirits won\u2019t harm me.The \u201cold people\u201d, as Gudju Gudju calls them, are here now \u2013 right there, he says, just over my shoulder, along the creek bank, where their heads were cut off and placed on stakes. He incants in Yidindji, rubs his hands under his armpits and wipes them softly on my face and torso.Queensland was, perhaps, the stage for the most excessive frontier violence against the continent\u2019s Indigenous people. A growing body of evidence suggests upwards of 50,000 people died at the hands of settlers, soldiers and native police in colonial Queensland alone.Skeleton creek is the site of one such massacre in the 1880s. That is corroborated by both Yidindji oral history, as conveyed in Murrumu\u2019s 2010 painting Skeleton Creek, and colonial records. The locals were massacred and decapitated by settlers and the native police, and their heads put on stakes at regular intervals along the creek to stop the local clans continually crossing the waterway to attack pastoralists.After Canberra, Murrumu plans to take his message overseas. I\u2019m anxious on his behalf; I ask how he intends to travel abroad without an Australian passport.\u201cWell, I don\u2019t need a passport,\u201d he says. \u201cPassports are for citizens and I\u2019m not a citizen. I am a tribal man and there are ways that I can\u2019t disclose to you that I can travel under protection and with what people would say is diplomatic immunity.\u201dAnd so we can probably add Customs to the list of commonwealth of institutions \u2013 I\u2019m guessing behind Asio, the Queensland and federal police \u2013 that are likely to have a heightened awareness of Murrumu from now on.Murrumu seems to expect this but insists he\u2019s not afraid. \u201cI don\u2019t fear for my life because what I\u2019m doing is the truth. But I don\u2019t want to be intercepted or interfered with and the Australians must respect that.\u201cAnd if their police or their courts or their magistrates touch me or interfere with me then it will be an act of slavery and crimes against the tribe.\u201dWe may have heard the last of Jeremy Geia but we have not heard the last, I suspect, of Murrumu Walubara Yidindji.", "tags": ["Indigenous Australians", "Australia news", "Queensland"], "title": "The man who renounced Australia"},{"date": "2014-07-17T01:51:06Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia\u2019s carbon price has been repealed, leaving the nation with no legislated policy to achieve even the minimum 5% greenhouse emissions reduction target it has inscribed in international agreements.After eight years of bitter political debate, during which climate policy dominated three election campaigns and contributed to the demise of two prime ministers, after last week\u2019s Senate drama in which the repeal was again defeated and this week\u2019s lengthy last gasp debate, the Senate has now finally voted to make good Tony Abbott\u2019s \u201cpledge in blood\u201d to \u201caxe the tax\u201d.The government was backed by seven of the new crossbench senators, including the three Palmer United party senators, Liberal Democrat senator David Leyonhjelm, Family First senator Bob Day, Motoring Enthusiast senator Ricky Muir, DLP senator John Madigan. Independent senator Nick Xenophon was unwell.Only the Australian Labor party and the Greens voted against repealing the carbon pricing scheme they introduced, which came into effect two years ago.Leader of the government in the Senate and former climate change minister Penny Wong said repealing the bills meant \u201cthis nation will have walked away from a credible and efficient response to climate change\u201d.Wong said the prime minister Tony Abbott had \u201cstaked his political career \u2026 on fearmongering and scaremongering and that is what this debate has been about for years\u201d.\u201cI think future generations will look back on these bills and they will be appalled \u2026 at the short-sighted, opportunistic selfish politics of those opposite and Mr Abbott will go down as one of the most short-sighted, selfish and small people ever to occupy the office of prime minister.\u201dGovernment backbencher Ian Macdonald accused opposition parties of being hypocrites for refusing to accept the will of the voters and said that while he had \u201can open mind\u201d, he would like to point out that Brisbane had recently had its coldest day in 113 years.Greens leader Christine Milne said it was \u201ca vote for failure\u201d amid interjections from government backbenchers that she should \u201cget over it\u201d because the parliament was \u201crespecting the will of the Australian people\u201d.The bills passed 39:32. There was none of the jubilation that accompanied their passage in the lower house, but the leader of the government in the Senate, Eric Abetz, shook hands with backbench senator Cory Bernardi, who led the revolt against Malcolm Turnbull when, as leader of the opposition, he backed Labor\u2019s carbon pricing scheme.The tax was $25.40 a tonne and was scheduled to move to the floating and lower international price in 12 months.The repeal will cost the budget around $7bn over the next four years as around 350 businesses, mainly electricity generators and big manufacturers, no longer have to pay the tax.The government argues the carbon pricing scheme has been ineffective, but national emissions have actually fallen by 0.8% in the first calendar year of its operation, the largest fall in 24 years of records. Since the tax began, emissions from the east coast electricity market have fallen 11%, but emissions from other sources \u2013 especially coal and gas mining have increased.The government also says households will be better off by an average $550 \u2013 the amount treasury estimated prices would rise when the tax was introduced \u2013 but supermarkets and airlines are now saying consumers should not expect price reductions.The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission\u2019s special powers are to monitor and enforce only electricity and gas price reductions. Electricity bills will rise, but by an estimated 9% less than they otherwise would. Gas bills will rise by an estimated 7% less than they would have with the tax still in place.The Abbott government says it will now achieve the target of a 5% reduction in Australian emissions compared with 2000 levels by 2020 with its Direct Action policy, which will offer $2.5bn in competitive grants over the next four years to companies and organisations voluntarily reducing emissions. The budget actually allocated only $1.14bn over the four-year forward estimates for the scheme. The government said this is because they will pay on delivery of the abatement. The policy is voluntary and puts no overall cap on emissions.The government itself has not modelled Direct Action (Abbott said he would prefer to \u201chave a crack\u201d), but two other modelling exercises found even the 5% cut would cost far more than $2.5bn, and the independent climate change authority \u2013 which the government is seeking to abolish \u2013 has said Australia\u2019s \u201cfair share\u201d of international emissions reductions has now increased to between 15% and 19% by 2020.The government says it is sure Direct Action will meet the 5% target, but Abbott has said he will not allocate any more money even if it does not, and has not said how he would make deeper reductions in Australia\u2019s emissions which are likely to be required after the United Nations meeting to try to forge a new post-2020 climate agreement in Paris next year.Malcolm Turnbull warned of the long-term costs of the policy in a speech to parliament after he was deposed as leader because of his support for an emissions trading scheme, when he said Direct Action style schemes were \u201ca recipe for fiscal recklessness on a grand scale\u201d.The carbon price repeal bills were voted down in the Senate last week after a last-minute change to a Palmer United party amendment was ruled to be unconstitutional by the clerk of the Senate. The government had been prepared to accept the amendment but then changed it again over the weekend after business groups raised major concerns. Business groups welcomed the repeal as a \u201cfirst step\u201d towards achieving an effective emissions reduction policy.The Business Council of Australia, the Minerals Council of Australia and the Australian Industry Group called on the government to \u201cdevelop and implement a cost-effective emissions reduction fund\u201d as \u201cpart of a toolkit of measures to reduce emissions\u201d.But the Climate Institute thinktank said that \u201cby repealing laws that price and limit carbon pollution, Australia today became the world\u2019s first country to dismantle a functioning and effective carbon market, taking a monumentally reckless backward leap even as other major countries are stepping up climate action\u201d.And the Australian Conservation Foundation said: \u201cThis backwards step makes Australia an international embarrassment.\u201dDescribing it as a \u201ctragic day\u201d, Greens leader senator Christine Milne said after the vote that \u201cthe big polluters should pay for the destruction they are causing to the planet\u201d. She accused the Coalition of \u201cwanting to cost-shift the burden of climate change onto the community and away from the people who are causing it\u201d.Both Labor and the Greens say they remain committed to carbon pricing as the best way to reduce emissions.Speaking after the vote, agriculture minister Barnaby Joyce said the tax had imposed high costs on families, and questioned whether it was needed, saying \u201clook at the weather today, look at the way you are dressed, no one thinks it is too hot\u201d.\u201cI believe there is climate change happening, I just don\u2019t believe we are going to change it with a broad-based consumption tax.\u201d\u201cI am glad the carbon tax has been axed \u2026 we have Direct Action and there are programs that hopefully can assist \u2026 but the idea that somehow we inflict on every household the fact that we would attack their power prices to the Australian taxation offices. They took it to the Australian people and the Australian people rejected it,\u201d Joyce said.", "tags": ["Carbon tax", "Australian politics", "Australia news", "Coalition", "Clive Palmer", "Environment", "Tony Abbott", "Australian Greens", "Penny Wong", "Labor party", "Christine Milne", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Climate change", "Gas", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Asia Pacific", "Barnaby Joyce", "Liberal party"], "title": "Australia kills off carbon tax"},{"date": "2014-09-23T13:00:15Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It\u2019s 6am on a winter\u2019s morning: mist is rising off the lake, and the kookaburras laugh in a nearby gum, challenging the laggards to get up and enjoy yet another sunny day in the low-to-mid-20s. That\u2019s 20C, not your Pommy 20 Fahrenheit \u2013 it never gets that cold here.We turn over in bed. No need for us oldies to get up just yet, though our friendly juvenile whip-bird has now joined the morning chorus, lulling us back to sleep.Boreen Point is 20km from civilisation, by road or by river, but many more from the cares of the everyday world. Ready to retire from the city life 10 years ago, we were fortunate in finding the right place at the right price at the right time. We only needed a six-month babysitting sojourn with our grandchildren in Kirriemuir, Scotland, to convince us that we could easily adapt to life in a small community: in this case, one that houses less than 200 people, after a lifetime spent, in my case, living and working in cities from 1 to 8 million, here in Australia and in Britain.Our little community sometimes swells, especially at holiday times and when there is a sailing regatta, or our international arts festival The Floating Land is happening, to almost 1,000: every spare bed in the town is occupied. Many of us are retired, but a growing number of young families have come here to share the tranquillity and embrace our natural environment. We respect our neighbours\u2019 privacy, while knowing that help will be at hand when it is needed.We\u2019re high on a hill, a mere 6km from the ocean, with the sound of the breaking waves soothing us to sleep at night. Lake Cootharaba on the pristine Noosa river separates us from the beach to the east, while to the north, west and south, national parks and state forests surround us. We have a village store and a convivial hotel, the Apollonian, just around the corner. If we don\u2019t feel like driving, a $1 flexi-taxi service will take us to the shops and services 20km away.What more could anybody ask for?Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Queensland"], "title": "Letter from Australia: Point to point"},{"date": "2014-07-01T03:48:51Z", "country": "australia", "content": " Guardian Australia has appointed three-time Walkley Award winner Gay Alcorn as its Melbourne editor. The agreement will see Alcorn take on the position from August 1 with responsibility for covering key Melbourne and Victorian issues, and large national stories.Alcorn will be supported by Oliver Milman in the Guardian Australia\u2019s new Melbourne office, and another new recruit, Melissa Davey. \u201cI am delighted to appoint Gay Alcorn as Guardian Australia\u2019s Melbourne editor, a role she will assume from August 1. As a three-time Walkley Award Winner, Gay has had an outstanding career as both a writer and an editor. She's an amazing journalist and will bring huge extra heft to our reporting, not just in Melbourne and Victoria, but also nationally.Gay will join Oliver Milman in our new Melbourne office, and new recruit, Melissa Davey, a talented young reporter with a wealth of medical reporting as well as general news reporting under her belt,\" said Emily Wilson, editor of Guardian Australia.Alcorn has been deputy editor of The Age and was editor of The Sunday Age for four years until the end of 2012, when she returned to writing. Last year, Alcorn launched and edited The Conversation\u2019s Election FactCheck for the federal election. Alcon was also Fairfax's Washington correspondent during the 2000 Bush-Gore presidential election and the September 11 terrorist attacks. Davey moved to Sydney in 2007 after completing a double degree in journalism and international relations at Curtin University in Perth. She previously worked at Fairfax for the Sydney Morning Herald in news and medical reporting roles and has written for a number of websites and publications including Daily Life, Australian Doctor and Crikey.Guardian Australia has already made several high profile appointments in 2014 including Walkley award-winning cartoonist Andrew Marlton (First Dog On The Moon) in April and Dave Earley, The Courier Mail\u2019s engagement editor, who will join Guardian Australia as a deputy audience development editor.The news comes off the back of Guardian Australia announcing earlier this year it will open a third Australian office located in Melbourne to support the rapid expansion of its Australian operations; and the creation of 12 new roles in Sydney and Melbourne since the beginning of the year. With a global digital audience of 100m monthly unique browsers, the Guardian is the third largest English language newspaper website in the world. Guardian Australia offers Australian audiences high-quality, independent and innovative local journalism, publishing some of the best writers in Australia alongside the best of the Guardian's global journalism.Readers can access Guardian Australia content 24 hours a day via theguardian.com, both on desktop and mobile, follow @GuardianAus on Twitter, like the Guardian Australia Facebook page, subscribe to the daily email update and can also download the Guardian App for Android and the Guardian App for iOS which both have Australian edition options.Guardian News & Media (GNM) publishes theguardian.com, the third largest English-speaking newspaper website in the world (comScore, January 2013). Since launching its US and Australia digital editions in 2011 and 2013 respectively, traffic from outside of the UK now represents over two-thirds of the Guardian's total digital audience.In the UK, GNM publishes the Guardian newspaper six days a week and the world's oldest Sunday newspaper, The Observer.The newspapers were named the most trustworthy, accurate and reliable newspapers in the UK in 2013.The Guardian, which was first published in 1821, is most recently renowned for its agenda-setting NSA and GCHQ revelations following disclosures by whistleblower Edward Snowden, its globally acclaimed investigation into phone hacking and the launch of its groundbreaking digital-first strategy in 2011 and its trailblazing partnership with WikiLeaks in 2010. . The ultimate owner of the Guardian is The Scott Trust, which was originally created as a trust in 1936 to safeguard the title's journalistic freedom. In 2008 it was replaced by a limited company with the same core purpose of the original trust: to secure the financial and editorial independence of the Guardian in perpetuity, while its subsidiary aims are to champion its principles and to promote freedom of the press in the UK and elsewhere. Other than to cover expense, The Scott Trust takes no dividend from the group's businesses, whose profits are instead reinvested to sustain journalism that is free from commercial or political interference.Guardian Australia Team at Text100: GuardianAustralia@text100.com or Tel: 02 9956 573", "tags": ["GNM press office", "Press releases 2014", "Guardian Australia press office", "Press releases"], "title": "Guardian Australia appoints Melbourne Editor"},{"date": "2014-08-26T02:13:36Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last April Jeremy Geia posted his driver\u2019s licence to the chief minister of the Australian Capital Territory, where he was then living, with a polite note explaining why he no longer needed it.Then he returned his passport and Medicare card to the federal government.Geia sent them back because he had decided to \u201cleave Australia\u201d while remaining in this continent, by reverting to his tribal name and adhering primarily to the law of his people, the Yidindji of north Queensland.While severing all official contact and contracts with Australian institutions, he made a few more momentous life decisions too, relinquishing a good salary by quitting his job as chief political correspondent in the Canberra press gallery for National Indigenous Television, giving away most of his things, and abandoning his bank accounts and 20 years\u2019 superannuation.We are talking in Cairns over breakfast (my shout; he carries barely enough change to park his borrowed car) about what inspired him to abandon what he calls the \u201cAustralian citizen ship\u201d.Murrumu Walubara Yidindji, as he is now, is highly adept with words \u2013 consistent with the reputation he honed in Canberra and elsewhere (among other stories he broke, Murrumu was the first western reporter to interview Julian Assange in London\u2019s Ecuadorian embassy) as a highly respected journalist. He footnotes his English aphorism with Latin interpretation and constantly riffs \u2013 even kind of raps \u2013 off the entendre of words he so precisely selects.He\u2019s a warm, enigmatic big bear of a bloke with whom conversation oscillates seamlessly from the intensely political (sovereignty and the sites where his people were massacred) to prosaic (football, kids, mutual friends, weather).To begin to understand Murrumu it\u2019s perhaps best to start here.\u201cSuperficies solo credit \u2013 what is attached to the land belongs to the land,\u201d he says.\u201cQui prior est tempore potior est jure \u2013 first in time is best in law.\u201dMurrumu\u2019s message could not be clearer: the Yidindji have been on their land \u2013 which incorporates all of Cairns, extends from the Russell river in the south to the Mowbray in the north, and reaches from beyond the Malbon Thompson range and out into the Coral Sea past the Franklin Islands \u2013 since the Dreaming began. Any additions to that land, such as buildings and roads, piers and jetties, he insists, belong to the country itself and the Yidindji.\u201cThe Australian government sees us as the original inhabitants and [as] the original peoples, and that says to me that our law is strongest in law and their law is Johnny Come Lately,\u201d he says.Having rescinded and revoked any allegiance to the Commonwealth of Australia, he says, \u201c1788 is fast becoming 1984\u201d.\u201cThe rapid dominance resulting from British contact has fast turned many tribal people into state citizens who live lives of voluntary servitude far removed from their tribal duties and laws.\u201dWhile it seems that not all practical detail of abandoning the citizen ship has yet been finessed, Murrumu has embarked on a campaign \u2013 beginning this week in Canberra where he\u2019ll meet foreign diplomats and speak at the Australian National University \u2013 to cultivate international awareness about the supremacy of Yidindji law and his departure from Australia.\u201cPeople that know me and know what I\u2019m doing are more than happy to support me because they know that what I\u2019m doing is the truth,\u201d he says. \u201cThe truth is that we were here before the British. The truth is that we hold sovereignty and dominion over these lands. The truth is that there\u2019ve been genocide and multiple crimes against humanity and massacres committed on this land that haven\u2019t been brought to ... justice.\u201cWe\u2019ve sent notices to the world letting them know that Yidindji tribal authority is here and [about] my wish to make an offer to negotiate and ... to settle with the ones who are benefiting from the unjust enrichments from using my ancestral lands and my child\u2019s property.\u201dHe has written to Tony Abbott, whom he knows personally. But so far he\u2019s only received an impersonal response from the prime minister\u2019s department.Murrumu says while he had been contemplating a return to tribal law for some time, the political instability, treachery, deceit and self-indulgence surrounding the Labor leadership, especially in mid-2013 when Kevin Rudd reassumed the prime ministership, helped crystallise his decision.\u201cEveryone in Parliament House was talking about it and at that stage I thought, \u2018This is childlike \u2013 how can people, including my people, improve their lives when this type of caper is going on?\u2019 \u201cWhile that circus was happening a lot of people who had put their faith in voting and in the political process had been disrespected. That, for me, was the tipping point and I made a decision to say, \u2018You know what? This is a system that\u2019s not for me. That\u2019s when I decided to jump off the citizen ship, leave Australia.\u201dDivesting personal possessions is liberating, says Murrumu, who, I\u2019m guessing, might be in his late 30s or early 40s.I do ask his age, and he says: \u201cI have been here since the beginning of time. My body has information that is tens of thousands of years old.\u201dFair enough.Today he owns seven T-shirts and one pair of trousers. Nothing else. No longer opening mail is a blessing, he says. Notably, for a bloke who\u2019s off the grid, he\u2019s still on the net and his emails arrive under his tribal moniker.He lives with friends including a Yidindji elder, Gudju Gudju, on the outskirts of Cairns where the fecund, black earth, with its countless worry lines of rivulets and streams, begins to rise gently into the dense, lush rainforest of the ancient range.\u201cAnd I do still love my English football \u2013 Liverpool. And English breakfast tea,\u201d he volunteers.Then he laughs because ... well, yes, the irony, which is pretty acute, is not lost on him. But then again, he\u2019s not declaring war on Britain and Australia, \u201cjust peacefully going back to my original law\u201d. While plenty may \u2013 and will \u2013 disagree, I guess Murrumu is still entitled to support whichever English Premier League team he likes and imbibe whatever cha, so long as it\u2019s on someone else\u2019s flat screen and there are mates willing to spot him a teabag or two.As we drive to the place where he sleeps (\u201cI live in here,\u201d he insists, tapping his chest, in a way that prompts you to think about your own life) a police car passes on the other side of the highway.\u201cPolicy enforcement officers,\u201d Murrumu says, shaking his head.Officers who would doubtless be confused should they pull Murrumu over and demand to see his licence.\u201cYeah, I don\u2019t hold a licence because it had the incorrect name on it [Jeremy Geia] and furthermore I did not want to hold a licence because the supreme creator here is Gayaburra Goopi and he gave the tribal people the law to uphold and this gives us the supreme authority on the land,\u201d he says.He explains that he and a few others who are following his example carry only a document, created by him, that explains their tribal identity. Yidindji number plates and perhaps even currency are planned. In the meantime Murrumu is growing food and bartering, sometimes with his own impressive paintings, demand for which is growing.\u201cWho created the licences ... and all these other things that Australian citizens use? It\u2019s the crown or the commonwealth. So they belong to them. And you know, give back to Caesar what belongs to Rome ... this is your stuff, so take it back.\u201dAbout here I start to wonder if Murrumu is having just a little bit of a lend. He says that if stopped by the Australian authorities he would identify himself as a tribal man who lives outside Australia and he expects that his status would be respected.And I also wonder if he\u2019s having me on when he acknowledges the advantages of living in Australia, such as Medicare and public hospitals and schools, but reiterates \u201cwhat is attached to the land belongs to the land\u201d and \u201cif this is tribal land then surely all these buildings belong to the tribe\u201d, which leads inevitably to this exchange:\u201cOK, so your kid gets sick and needs to go to hospital and he needs to go to school, how do you deal with that practicality?\u201dMurrumu: \u201cWell, we just take them to school, and they get an education.\u201d\u201cBut that is an education provided by the state.\u201dMurrumu: \u201cYeah, but that school\u2019s on my land.\u201d\u201cThe same with the hospital, right?\u201d\u201cThat\u2019s exactly right.\u201dBut by the time we get to Gudju Gudju\u2019s house, Murrumu has mentioned perhaps half a dozen times the massacre of various tribal people, his own included, by soldiers, settlers and police that began with the arrival of the first citizen ship from England in 1788.Yes, he is provoking an important conversation by just about any verbal means possible. But in the end I am left in no doubt that he is entirely serious and that his resolve is sure. He\u2019s not having a lend.I meet Gudju Gudju, who takes me across the road to a grassy lot that abuts Skeleton creek. We stand beneath the impressive canopy of a monolithic raintree, imported from the Americas long after the British arrived, and Gudju Gudju rubs his scent on to me so the creek\u2019s spirits won\u2019t harm me.The \u201cold people\u201d, as Gudju Gudju calls them, are here now \u2013 right there, he says, just over my shoulder, along the creek bank, where their heads were cut off and placed on stakes. He incants in Yidindji, rubs his hands under his armpits and wipes them softly on my face and torso.Queensland was, perhaps, the stage for the most excessive frontier violence against the continent\u2019s Indigenous people. A growing body of evidence suggests upwards of 50,000 people died at the hands of settlers, soldiers and native police in colonial Queensland alone.Skeleton creek is the site of one such massacre in the 1880s. That is corroborated by both Yidindji oral history, as conveyed in Murrumu\u2019s 2010 painting Skeleton Creek, and colonial records. The locals were massacred and decapitated by settlers and the native police, and their heads put on stakes at regular intervals along the creek to stop the local clans continually crossing the waterway to attack pastoralists.After Canberra, Murrumu plans to take his message overseas. I\u2019m anxious on his behalf; I ask how he intends to travel abroad without an Australian passport.\u201cWell, I don\u2019t need a passport,\u201d he says. \u201cPassports are for citizens and I\u2019m not a citizen. I am a tribal man and there are ways that I can\u2019t disclose to you that I can travel under protection and with what people would say is diplomatic immunity.\u201dAnd so we can probably add Customs to the list of commonwealth of institutions \u2013 I\u2019m guessing behind Asio, the Queensland and federal police \u2013 that are likely to have a heightened awareness of Murrumu from now on.Murrumu seems to expect this but insists he\u2019s not afraid. \u201cI don\u2019t fear for my life because what I\u2019m doing is the truth. But I don\u2019t want to be intercepted or interfered with and the Australians must respect that.\u201cAnd if their police or their courts or their magistrates touch me or interfere with me then it will be an act of slavery and crimes against the tribe.\u201dWe may have heard the last of Jeremy Geia but we have not heard the last, I suspect, of Murrumu Walubara Yidindji.", "tags": ["Indigenous Australians", "Australia news", "Queensland"], "title": "The man who renounced Australia"},{"date": "2014-07-17T01:51:06Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia\u2019s carbon price has been repealed, leaving the nation with no legislated policy to achieve even the minimum 5% greenhouse emissions reduction target it has inscribed in international agreements.After eight years of bitter political debate, during which climate policy dominated three election campaigns and contributed to the demise of two prime ministers, after last week\u2019s Senate drama in which the repeal was again defeated and this week\u2019s lengthy last gasp debate, the Senate has now finally voted to make good Tony Abbott\u2019s \u201cpledge in blood\u201d to \u201caxe the tax\u201d.The government was backed by seven of the new crossbench senators, including the three Palmer United party senators, Liberal Democrat senator David Leyonhjelm, Family First senator Bob Day, Motoring Enthusiast senator Ricky Muir, DLP senator John Madigan. Independent senator Nick Xenophon was unwell.Only the Australian Labor party and the Greens voted against repealing the carbon pricing scheme they introduced, which came into effect two years ago.Leader of the government in the Senate and former climate change minister Penny Wong said repealing the bills meant \u201cthis nation will have walked away from a credible and efficient response to climate change\u201d.Wong said the prime minister Tony Abbott had \u201cstaked his political career \u2026 on fearmongering and scaremongering and that is what this debate has been about for years\u201d.\u201cI think future generations will look back on these bills and they will be appalled \u2026 at the short-sighted, opportunistic selfish politics of those opposite and Mr Abbott will go down as one of the most short-sighted, selfish and small people ever to occupy the office of prime minister.\u201dGovernment backbencher Ian Macdonald accused opposition parties of being hypocrites for refusing to accept the will of the voters and said that while he had \u201can open mind\u201d, he would like to point out that Brisbane had recently had its coldest day in 113 years.Greens leader Christine Milne said it was \u201ca vote for failure\u201d amid interjections from government backbenchers that she should \u201cget over it\u201d because the parliament was \u201crespecting the will of the Australian people\u201d.The bills passed 39:32. There was none of the jubilation that accompanied their passage in the lower house, but the leader of the government in the Senate, Eric Abetz, shook hands with backbench senator Cory Bernardi, who led the revolt against Malcolm Turnbull when, as leader of the opposition, he backed Labor\u2019s carbon pricing scheme.The tax was $25.40 a tonne and was scheduled to move to the floating and lower international price in 12 months.The repeal will cost the budget around $7bn over the next four years as around 350 businesses, mainly electricity generators and big manufacturers, no longer have to pay the tax.The government argues the carbon pricing scheme has been ineffective, but national emissions have actually fallen by 0.8% in the first calendar year of its operation, the largest fall in 24 years of records. Since the tax began, emissions from the east coast electricity market have fallen 11%, but emissions from other sources \u2013 especially coal and gas mining have increased.The government also says households will be better off by an average $550 \u2013 the amount treasury estimated prices would rise when the tax was introduced \u2013 but supermarkets and airlines are now saying consumers should not expect price reductions.The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission\u2019s special powers are to monitor and enforce only electricity and gas price reductions. Electricity bills will rise, but by an estimated 9% less than they otherwise would. Gas bills will rise by an estimated 7% less than they would have with the tax still in place.The Abbott government says it will now achieve the target of a 5% reduction in Australian emissions compared with 2000 levels by 2020 with its Direct Action policy, which will offer $2.5bn in competitive grants over the next four years to companies and organisations voluntarily reducing emissions. The budget actually allocated only $1.14bn over the four-year forward estimates for the scheme. The government said this is because they will pay on delivery of the abatement. The policy is voluntary and puts no overall cap on emissions.The government itself has not modelled Direct Action (Abbott said he would prefer to \u201chave a crack\u201d), but two other modelling exercises found even the 5% cut would cost far more than $2.5bn, and the independent climate change authority \u2013 which the government is seeking to abolish \u2013 has said Australia\u2019s \u201cfair share\u201d of international emissions reductions has now increased to between 15% and 19% by 2020.The government says it is sure Direct Action will meet the 5% target, but Abbott has said he will not allocate any more money even if it does not, and has not said how he would make deeper reductions in Australia\u2019s emissions which are likely to be required after the United Nations meeting to try to forge a new post-2020 climate agreement in Paris next year.Malcolm Turnbull warned of the long-term costs of the policy in a speech to parliament after he was deposed as leader because of his support for an emissions trading scheme, when he said Direct Action style schemes were \u201ca recipe for fiscal recklessness on a grand scale\u201d.The carbon price repeal bills were voted down in the Senate last week after a last-minute change to a Palmer United party amendment was ruled to be unconstitutional by the clerk of the Senate. The government had been prepared to accept the amendment but then changed it again over the weekend after business groups raised major concerns. Business groups welcomed the repeal as a \u201cfirst step\u201d towards achieving an effective emissions reduction policy.The Business Council of Australia, the Minerals Council of Australia and the Australian Industry Group called on the government to \u201cdevelop and implement a cost-effective emissions reduction fund\u201d as \u201cpart of a toolkit of measures to reduce emissions\u201d.But the Climate Institute thinktank said that \u201cby repealing laws that price and limit carbon pollution, Australia today became the world\u2019s first country to dismantle a functioning and effective carbon market, taking a monumentally reckless backward leap even as other major countries are stepping up climate action\u201d.And the Australian Conservation Foundation said: \u201cThis backwards step makes Australia an international embarrassment.\u201dDescribing it as a \u201ctragic day\u201d, Greens leader senator Christine Milne said after the vote that \u201cthe big polluters should pay for the destruction they are causing to the planet\u201d. She accused the Coalition of \u201cwanting to cost-shift the burden of climate change onto the community and away from the people who are causing it\u201d.Both Labor and the Greens say they remain committed to carbon pricing as the best way to reduce emissions.Speaking after the vote, agriculture minister Barnaby Joyce said the tax had imposed high costs on families, and questioned whether it was needed, saying \u201clook at the weather today, look at the way you are dressed, no one thinks it is too hot\u201d.\u201cI believe there is climate change happening, I just don\u2019t believe we are going to change it with a broad-based consumption tax.\u201d\u201cI am glad the carbon tax has been axed \u2026 we have Direct Action and there are programs that hopefully can assist \u2026 but the idea that somehow we inflict on every household the fact that we would attack their power prices to the Australian taxation offices. They took it to the Australian people and the Australian people rejected it,\u201d Joyce said.", "tags": ["Carbon tax", "Australian politics", "Australia news", "Coalition", "Clive Palmer", "Environment", "Tony Abbott", "Australian Greens", "Penny Wong", "Labor party", "Christine Milne", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Climate change", "Gas", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Asia Pacific", "Barnaby Joyce", "Liberal party"], "title": "Australia kills off carbon tax"},{"date": "2014-09-23T13:00:15Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It\u2019s 6am on a winter\u2019s morning: mist is rising off the lake, and the kookaburras laugh in a nearby gum, challenging the laggards to get up and enjoy yet another sunny day in the low-to-mid-20s. That\u2019s 20C, not your Pommy 20 Fahrenheit \u2013 it never gets that cold here.We turn over in bed. No need for us oldies to get up just yet, though our friendly juvenile whip-bird has now joined the morning chorus, lulling us back to sleep.Boreen Point is 20km from civilisation, by road or by river, but many more from the cares of the everyday world. Ready to retire from the city life 10 years ago, we were fortunate in finding the right place at the right price at the right time. We only needed a six-month babysitting sojourn with our grandchildren in Kirriemuir, Scotland, to convince us that we could easily adapt to life in a small community: in this case, one that houses less than 200 people, after a lifetime spent, in my case, living and working in cities from 1 to 8 million, here in Australia and in Britain.Our little community sometimes swells, especially at holiday times and when there is a sailing regatta, or our international arts festival The Floating Land is happening, to almost 1,000: every spare bed in the town is occupied. Many of us are retired, but a growing number of young families have come here to share the tranquillity and embrace our natural environment. We respect our neighbours\u2019 privacy, while knowing that help will be at hand when it is needed.We\u2019re high on a hill, a mere 6km from the ocean, with the sound of the breaking waves soothing us to sleep at night. Lake Cootharaba on the pristine Noosa river separates us from the beach to the east, while to the north, west and south, national parks and state forests surround us. We have a village store and a convivial hotel, the Apollonian, just around the corner. If we don\u2019t feel like driving, a $1 flexi-taxi service will take us to the shops and services 20km away.What more could anybody ask for?Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Queensland"], "title": "Letter from Australia: Point to point"},{"date": "2014-07-01T03:48:51Z", "country": "australia", "content": " Guardian Australia has appointed three-time Walkley Award winner Gay Alcorn as its Melbourne editor. The agreement will see Alcorn take on the position from August 1 with responsibility for covering key Melbourne and Victorian issues, and large national stories.Alcorn will be supported by Oliver Milman in the Guardian Australia\u2019s new Melbourne office, and another new recruit, Melissa Davey. \u201cI am delighted to appoint Gay Alcorn as Guardian Australia\u2019s Melbourne editor, a role she will assume from August 1. As a three-time Walkley Award Winner, Gay has had an outstanding career as both a writer and an editor. She's an amazing journalist and will bring huge extra heft to our reporting, not just in Melbourne and Victoria, but also nationally.Gay will join Oliver Milman in our new Melbourne office, and new recruit, Melissa Davey, a talented young reporter with a wealth of medical reporting as well as general news reporting under her belt,\" said Emily Wilson, editor of Guardian Australia.Alcorn has been deputy editor of The Age and was editor of The Sunday Age for four years until the end of 2012, when she returned to writing. Last year, Alcorn launched and edited The Conversation\u2019s Election FactCheck for the federal election. Alcon was also Fairfax's Washington correspondent during the 2000 Bush-Gore presidential election and the September 11 terrorist attacks. Davey moved to Sydney in 2007 after completing a double degree in journalism and international relations at Curtin University in Perth. She previously worked at Fairfax for the Sydney Morning Herald in news and medical reporting roles and has written for a number of websites and publications including Daily Life, Australian Doctor and Crikey.Guardian Australia has already made several high profile appointments in 2014 including Walkley award-winning cartoonist Andrew Marlton (First Dog On The Moon) in April and Dave Earley, The Courier Mail\u2019s engagement editor, who will join Guardian Australia as a deputy audience development editor.The news comes off the back of Guardian Australia announcing earlier this year it will open a third Australian office located in Melbourne to support the rapid expansion of its Australian operations; and the creation of 12 new roles in Sydney and Melbourne since the beginning of the year. With a global digital audience of 100m monthly unique browsers, the Guardian is the third largest English language newspaper website in the world. Guardian Australia offers Australian audiences high-quality, independent and innovative local journalism, publishing some of the best writers in Australia alongside the best of the Guardian's global journalism.Readers can access Guardian Australia content 24 hours a day via theguardian.com, both on desktop and mobile, follow @GuardianAus on Twitter, like the Guardian Australia Facebook page, subscribe to the daily email update and can also download the Guardian App for Android and the Guardian App for iOS which both have Australian edition options.Guardian News & Media (GNM) publishes theguardian.com, the third largest English-speaking newspaper website in the world (comScore, January 2013). Since launching its US and Australia digital editions in 2011 and 2013 respectively, traffic from outside of the UK now represents over two-thirds of the Guardian's total digital audience.In the UK, GNM publishes the Guardian newspaper six days a week and the world's oldest Sunday newspaper, The Observer.The newspapers were named the most trustworthy, accurate and reliable newspapers in the UK in 2013.The Guardian, which was first published in 1821, is most recently renowned for its agenda-setting NSA and GCHQ revelations following disclosures by whistleblower Edward Snowden, its globally acclaimed investigation into phone hacking and the launch of its groundbreaking digital-first strategy in 2011 and its trailblazing partnership with WikiLeaks in 2010. . The ultimate owner of the Guardian is The Scott Trust, which was originally created as a trust in 1936 to safeguard the title's journalistic freedom. In 2008 it was replaced by a limited company with the same core purpose of the original trust: to secure the financial and editorial independence of the Guardian in perpetuity, while its subsidiary aims are to champion its principles and to promote freedom of the press in the UK and elsewhere. Other than to cover expense, The Scott Trust takes no dividend from the group's businesses, whose profits are instead reinvested to sustain journalism that is free from commercial or political interference.Guardian Australia Team at Text100: GuardianAustralia@text100.com or Tel: 02 9956 573", "tags": ["GNM press office", "Press releases 2014", "Guardian Australia press office", "Press releases"], "title": "Guardian Australia appoints Melbourne Editor"},{"date": "2014-08-17T04:19:26Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia will reserve more than 2,000 places in its refugee program for Syrians, at the same time as it tries to return Syrians held in offshore detention to the country the immigration minister describes as \u201cin the midst of a terrible conflict\u201d.Syrian refugees will have 2,200 places set aside within the Special Humanitarian Program (SHP), which takes in refugees who can prove they already have a connection to Australia.Scott Morrison also announced 2,200 places in the program would be set aside for Iraqis. The places are part of the government\u2019s formal refugee intake of 13,750, which the Coalition reduced from 20,000 when it came to office last year.Australia is holding Iraqis and Syrians who tried to reach Australia by boat in offshore detention centres and tried to send Syrians back to the country, despite claims by at least one that he faced certain death if returned.Morrison said the commitment to set aside the places highlighted \u201cthe humanitarian dividend from the government\u2019s successful border protection policies\u201d.\u201cThis government has made it very clear that priority in the humanitarian program should be for those waiting overseas and entering Australia under an orderly process,\u201d he said in a statement released on Sunday.The government also promised to take in at least 4,500 Syrian refugees over the next three years.\u201cWith the continued violence in Iraq and Syria, the Australian government is dedicated to ensuring its humanitarian programme reaches those who need it most,\u201d Morrison said.Syrians on Manus Island have been told their details would be passed to the Syrian consulate if they returned and five Syrian men were split up in the Manus Island detention centre \u201cto keep them quiet\u201d earlier this year as the government tried to return them.The SHP targets people with family already in Australia or who can prove strong links and support within the community. Morrison said of the 2,200 Syrian refugees who would come to Australia, some would be already \u201cliving in desperate conditions in countries such as Lebanon\u201d.Lebanon has more than 1.1 million registered Syrian refugees, mostly living in camps.The SHP, which the government has set at about 4,000 places, receives more than 40,000 applications each year.Morrison said the SHP had been \u201cdecimated\u201d under Labor, which reduced it to 500 spots within its 20,000 refugee intake program.\u201cIt was extremely disappointing that up to 4,000 applicants waiting in the queue missed out on places in this program, and that their places were being taken up by those who had arrived illegally by boat,\u201d he said.\u201cThe government\u2019s policies under Operation Sovereign Borders have not only saved lives at sea, but also allowed more places to be returned to our humanitarian program for the world\u2019s most desperate and vulnerable people.\u201dMorrison\u2019s statement said the government had granted 1,050 visas for women at risk, predominantly from Afghanistan, as well as 1,800 Burmese refugees and 2,754 Afghans. All the places are within the humanitarian program, not in addition to the 13,750 places allocated to it.Burmese refugees have been allocated 2,000 places in the coming year. \u201cEveryone who is accepted under the formal refugee and humanitarian program are subject to the appropriate checks. It is not simply a process of walking straight out of a camp and onto a plane. Issues, such as identity, health and security are all subject to assessment,\u201d Morrison said.\u201cThe program also endeavours to focus on those who have a network of support that can assist their resettlement, such as local church communities who have strong ethnic and cultural connections. This has proved particularly helpful for those being resettled from the Middle East and Burma.\u201d", "tags": ["Australian immigration and asylum", "Australia news", "Syria", "Australian politics", "Scott Morrison", "Refugees", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Australia reserves 2,200 places for Syrian refugees"},{"date": "2014-08-26T02:13:36Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last April Jeremy Geia posted his driver\u2019s licence to the chief minister of the Australian Capital Territory, where he was then living, with a polite note explaining why he no longer needed it.Then he returned his passport and Medicare card to the federal government.Geia sent them back because he had decided to \u201cleave Australia\u201d while remaining in this continent, by reverting to his tribal name and adhering primarily to the law of his people, the Yidindji of north Queensland.While severing all official contact and contracts with Australian institutions, he made a few more momentous life decisions too, relinquishing a good salary by quitting his job as chief political correspondent in the Canberra press gallery for National Indigenous Television, giving away most of his things, and abandoning his bank accounts and 20 years\u2019 superannuation.We are talking in Cairns over breakfast (my shout; he carries barely enough change to park his borrowed car) about what inspired him to abandon what he calls the \u201cAustralian citizen ship\u201d.Murrumu Walubara Yidindji, as he is now, is highly adept with words \u2013 consistent with the reputation he honed in Canberra and elsewhere (among other stories he broke, Murrumu was the first western reporter to interview Julian Assange in London\u2019s Ecuadorian embassy) as a highly respected journalist. He footnotes his English aphorism with Latin interpretation and constantly riffs \u2013 even kind of raps \u2013 off the entendre of words he so precisely selects.He\u2019s a warm, enigmatic big bear of a bloke with whom conversation oscillates seamlessly from the intensely political (sovereignty and the sites where his people were massacred) to prosaic (football, kids, mutual friends, weather).To begin to understand Murrumu it\u2019s perhaps best to start here.\u201cSuperficies solo credit \u2013 what is attached to the land belongs to the land,\u201d he says.\u201cQui prior est tempore potior est jure \u2013 first in time is best in law.\u201dMurrumu\u2019s message could not be clearer: the Yidindji have been on their land \u2013 which incorporates all of Cairns, extends from the Russell river in the south to the Mowbray in the north, and reaches from beyond the Malbon Thompson range and out into the Coral Sea past the Franklin Islands \u2013 since the Dreaming began. Any additions to that land, such as buildings and roads, piers and jetties, he insists, belong to the country itself and the Yidindji.\u201cThe Australian government sees us as the original inhabitants and [as] the original peoples, and that says to me that our law is strongest in law and their law is Johnny Come Lately,\u201d he says.Having rescinded and revoked any allegiance to the Commonwealth of Australia, he says, \u201c1788 is fast becoming 1984\u201d.\u201cThe rapid dominance resulting from British contact has fast turned many tribal people into state citizens who live lives of voluntary servitude far removed from their tribal duties and laws.\u201dWhile it seems that not all practical detail of abandoning the citizen ship has yet been finessed, Murrumu has embarked on a campaign \u2013 beginning this week in Canberra where he\u2019ll meet foreign diplomats and speak at the Australian National University \u2013 to cultivate international awareness about the supremacy of Yidindji law and his departure from Australia.\u201cPeople that know me and know what I\u2019m doing are more than happy to support me because they know that what I\u2019m doing is the truth,\u201d he says. \u201cThe truth is that we were here before the British. The truth is that we hold sovereignty and dominion over these lands. The truth is that there\u2019ve been genocide and multiple crimes against humanity and massacres committed on this land that haven\u2019t been brought to ... justice.\u201cWe\u2019ve sent notices to the world letting them know that Yidindji tribal authority is here and [about] my wish to make an offer to negotiate and ... to settle with the ones who are benefiting from the unjust enrichments from using my ancestral lands and my child\u2019s property.\u201dHe has written to Tony Abbott, whom he knows personally. But so far he\u2019s only received an impersonal response from the prime minister\u2019s department.Murrumu says while he had been contemplating a return to tribal law for some time, the political instability, treachery, deceit and self-indulgence surrounding the Labor leadership, especially in mid-2013 when Kevin Rudd reassumed the prime ministership, helped crystallise his decision.\u201cEveryone in Parliament House was talking about it and at that stage I thought, \u2018This is childlike \u2013 how can people, including my people, improve their lives when this type of caper is going on?\u2019 \u201cWhile that circus was happening a lot of people who had put their faith in voting and in the political process had been disrespected. That, for me, was the tipping point and I made a decision to say, \u2018You know what? This is a system that\u2019s not for me. That\u2019s when I decided to jump off the citizen ship, leave Australia.\u201dDivesting personal possessions is liberating, says Murrumu, who, I\u2019m guessing, might be in his late 30s or early 40s.I do ask his age, and he says: \u201cI have been here since the beginning of time. My body has information that is tens of thousands of years old.\u201dFair enough.Today he owns seven T-shirts and one pair of trousers. Nothing else. No longer opening mail is a blessing, he says. Notably, for a bloke who\u2019s off the grid, he\u2019s still on the net and his emails arrive under his tribal moniker.He lives with friends including a Yidindji elder, Gudju Gudju, on the outskirts of Cairns where the fecund, black earth, with its countless worry lines of rivulets and streams, begins to rise gently into the dense, lush rainforest of the ancient range.\u201cAnd I do still love my English football \u2013 Liverpool. And English breakfast tea,\u201d he volunteers.Then he laughs because ... well, yes, the irony, which is pretty acute, is not lost on him. But then again, he\u2019s not declaring war on Britain and Australia, \u201cjust peacefully going back to my original law\u201d. While plenty may \u2013 and will \u2013 disagree, I guess Murrumu is still entitled to support whichever English Premier League team he likes and imbibe whatever cha, so long as it\u2019s on someone else\u2019s flat screen and there are mates willing to spot him a teabag or two.As we drive to the place where he sleeps (\u201cI live in here,\u201d he insists, tapping his chest, in a way that prompts you to think about your own life) a police car passes on the other side of the highway.\u201cPolicy enforcement officers,\u201d Murrumu says, shaking his head.Officers who would doubtless be confused should they pull Murrumu over and demand to see his licence.\u201cYeah, I don\u2019t hold a licence because it had the incorrect name on it [Jeremy Geia] and furthermore I did not want to hold a licence because the supreme creator here is Gayaburra Goopi and he gave the tribal people the law to uphold and this gives us the supreme authority on the land,\u201d he says.He explains that he and a few others who are following his example carry only a document, created by him, that explains their tribal identity. Yidindji number plates and perhaps even currency are planned. In the meantime Murrumu is growing food and bartering, sometimes with his own impressive paintings, demand for which is growing.\u201cWho created the licences ... and all these other things that Australian citizens use? It\u2019s the crown or the commonwealth. So they belong to them. And you know, give back to Caesar what belongs to Rome ... this is your stuff, so take it back.\u201dAbout here I start to wonder if Murrumu is having just a little bit of a lend. He says that if stopped by the Australian authorities he would identify himself as a tribal man who lives outside Australia and he expects that his status would be respected.And I also wonder if he\u2019s having me on when he acknowledges the advantages of living in Australia, such as Medicare and public hospitals and schools, but reiterates \u201cwhat is attached to the land belongs to the land\u201d and \u201cif this is tribal land then surely all these buildings belong to the tribe\u201d, which leads inevitably to this exchange:\u201cOK, so your kid gets sick and needs to go to hospital and he needs to go to school, how do you deal with that practicality?\u201dMurrumu: \u201cWell, we just take them to school, and they get an education.\u201d\u201cBut that is an education provided by the state.\u201dMurrumu: \u201cYeah, but that school\u2019s on my land.\u201d\u201cThe same with the hospital, right?\u201d\u201cThat\u2019s exactly right.\u201dBut by the time we get to Gudju Gudju\u2019s house, Murrumu has mentioned perhaps half a dozen times the massacre of various tribal people, his own included, by soldiers, settlers and police that began with the arrival of the first citizen ship from England in 1788.Yes, he is provoking an important conversation by just about any verbal means possible. But in the end I am left in no doubt that he is entirely serious and that his resolve is sure. He\u2019s not having a lend.I meet Gudju Gudju, who takes me across the road to a grassy lot that abuts Skeleton creek. We stand beneath the impressive canopy of a monolithic raintree, imported from the Americas long after the British arrived, and Gudju Gudju rubs his scent on to me so the creek\u2019s spirits won\u2019t harm me.The \u201cold people\u201d, as Gudju Gudju calls them, are here now \u2013 right there, he says, just over my shoulder, along the creek bank, where their heads were cut off and placed on stakes. He incants in Yidindji, rubs his hands under his armpits and wipes them softly on my face and torso.Queensland was, perhaps, the stage for the most excessive frontier violence against the continent\u2019s Indigenous people. A growing body of evidence suggests upwards of 50,000 people died at the hands of settlers, soldiers and native police in colonial Queensland alone.Skeleton creek is the site of one such massacre in the 1880s. That is corroborated by both Yidindji oral history, as conveyed in Murrumu\u2019s 2010 painting Skeleton Creek, and colonial records. The locals were massacred and decapitated by settlers and the native police, and their heads put on stakes at regular intervals along the creek to stop the local clans continually crossing the waterway to attack pastoralists.After Canberra, Murrumu plans to take his message overseas. I\u2019m anxious on his behalf; I ask how he intends to travel abroad without an Australian passport.\u201cWell, I don\u2019t need a passport,\u201d he says. \u201cPassports are for citizens and I\u2019m not a citizen. I am a tribal man and there are ways that I can\u2019t disclose to you that I can travel under protection and with what people would say is diplomatic immunity.\u201dAnd so we can probably add Customs to the list of commonwealth of institutions \u2013 I\u2019m guessing behind Asio, the Queensland and federal police \u2013 that are likely to have a heightened awareness of Murrumu from now on.Murrumu seems to expect this but insists he\u2019s not afraid. \u201cI don\u2019t fear for my life because what I\u2019m doing is the truth. But I don\u2019t want to be intercepted or interfered with and the Australians must respect that.\u201cAnd if their police or their courts or their magistrates touch me or interfere with me then it will be an act of slavery and crimes against the tribe.\u201dWe may have heard the last of Jeremy Geia but we have not heard the last, I suspect, of Murrumu Walubara Yidindji.", "tags": ["Indigenous Australians", "Australia news", "Queensland"], "title": "The man who renounced Australia"},{"date": "2014-07-17T01:51:06Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia\u2019s carbon price has been repealed, leaving the nation with no legislated policy to achieve even the minimum 5% greenhouse emissions reduction target it has inscribed in international agreements.After eight years of bitter political debate, during which climate policy dominated three election campaigns and contributed to the demise of two prime ministers, after last week\u2019s Senate drama in which the repeal was again defeated and this week\u2019s lengthy last gasp debate, the Senate has now finally voted to make good Tony Abbott\u2019s \u201cpledge in blood\u201d to \u201caxe the tax\u201d.The government was backed by seven of the new crossbench senators, including the three Palmer United party senators, Liberal Democrat senator David Leyonhjelm, Family First senator Bob Day, Motoring Enthusiast senator Ricky Muir, DLP senator John Madigan. Independent senator Nick Xenophon was unwell.Only the Australian Labor party and the Greens voted against repealing the carbon pricing scheme they introduced, which came into effect two years ago.Leader of the government in the Senate and former climate change minister Penny Wong said repealing the bills meant \u201cthis nation will have walked away from a credible and efficient response to climate change\u201d.Wong said the prime minister Tony Abbott had \u201cstaked his political career \u2026 on fearmongering and scaremongering and that is what this debate has been about for years\u201d.\u201cI think future generations will look back on these bills and they will be appalled \u2026 at the short-sighted, opportunistic selfish politics of those opposite and Mr Abbott will go down as one of the most short-sighted, selfish and small people ever to occupy the office of prime minister.\u201dGovernment backbencher Ian Macdonald accused opposition parties of being hypocrites for refusing to accept the will of the voters and said that while he had \u201can open mind\u201d, he would like to point out that Brisbane had recently had its coldest day in 113 years.Greens leader Christine Milne said it was \u201ca vote for failure\u201d amid interjections from government backbenchers that she should \u201cget over it\u201d because the parliament was \u201crespecting the will of the Australian people\u201d.The bills passed 39:32. There was none of the jubilation that accompanied their passage in the lower house, but the leader of the government in the Senate, Eric Abetz, shook hands with backbench senator Cory Bernardi, who led the revolt against Malcolm Turnbull when, as leader of the opposition, he backed Labor\u2019s carbon pricing scheme.The tax was $25.40 a tonne and was scheduled to move to the floating and lower international price in 12 months.The repeal will cost the budget around $7bn over the next four years as around 350 businesses, mainly electricity generators and big manufacturers, no longer have to pay the tax.The government argues the carbon pricing scheme has been ineffective, but national emissions have actually fallen by 0.8% in the first calendar year of its operation, the largest fall in 24 years of records. Since the tax began, emissions from the east coast electricity market have fallen 11%, but emissions from other sources \u2013 especially coal and gas mining have increased.The government also says households will be better off by an average $550 \u2013 the amount treasury estimated prices would rise when the tax was introduced \u2013 but supermarkets and airlines are now saying consumers should not expect price reductions.The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission\u2019s special powers are to monitor and enforce only electricity and gas price reductions. Electricity bills will rise, but by an estimated 9% less than they otherwise would. Gas bills will rise by an estimated 7% less than they would have with the tax still in place.The Abbott government says it will now achieve the target of a 5% reduction in Australian emissions compared with 2000 levels by 2020 with its Direct Action policy, which will offer $2.5bn in competitive grants over the next four years to companies and organisations voluntarily reducing emissions. The budget actually allocated only $1.14bn over the four-year forward estimates for the scheme. The government said this is because they will pay on delivery of the abatement. The policy is voluntary and puts no overall cap on emissions.The government itself has not modelled Direct Action (Abbott said he would prefer to \u201chave a crack\u201d), but two other modelling exercises found even the 5% cut would cost far more than $2.5bn, and the independent climate change authority \u2013 which the government is seeking to abolish \u2013 has said Australia\u2019s \u201cfair share\u201d of international emissions reductions has now increased to between 15% and 19% by 2020.The government says it is sure Direct Action will meet the 5% target, but Abbott has said he will not allocate any more money even if it does not, and has not said how he would make deeper reductions in Australia\u2019s emissions which are likely to be required after the United Nations meeting to try to forge a new post-2020 climate agreement in Paris next year.Malcolm Turnbull warned of the long-term costs of the policy in a speech to parliament after he was deposed as leader because of his support for an emissions trading scheme, when he said Direct Action style schemes were \u201ca recipe for fiscal recklessness on a grand scale\u201d.The carbon price repeal bills were voted down in the Senate last week after a last-minute change to a Palmer United party amendment was ruled to be unconstitutional by the clerk of the Senate. The government had been prepared to accept the amendment but then changed it again over the weekend after business groups raised major concerns. Business groups welcomed the repeal as a \u201cfirst step\u201d towards achieving an effective emissions reduction policy.The Business Council of Australia, the Minerals Council of Australia and the Australian Industry Group called on the government to \u201cdevelop and implement a cost-effective emissions reduction fund\u201d as \u201cpart of a toolkit of measures to reduce emissions\u201d.But the Climate Institute thinktank said that \u201cby repealing laws that price and limit carbon pollution, Australia today became the world\u2019s first country to dismantle a functioning and effective carbon market, taking a monumentally reckless backward leap even as other major countries are stepping up climate action\u201d.And the Australian Conservation Foundation said: \u201cThis backwards step makes Australia an international embarrassment.\u201dDescribing it as a \u201ctragic day\u201d, Greens leader senator Christine Milne said after the vote that \u201cthe big polluters should pay for the destruction they are causing to the planet\u201d. She accused the Coalition of \u201cwanting to cost-shift the burden of climate change onto the community and away from the people who are causing it\u201d.Both Labor and the Greens say they remain committed to carbon pricing as the best way to reduce emissions.Speaking after the vote, agriculture minister Barnaby Joyce said the tax had imposed high costs on families, and questioned whether it was needed, saying \u201clook at the weather today, look at the way you are dressed, no one thinks it is too hot\u201d.\u201cI believe there is climate change happening, I just don\u2019t believe we are going to change it with a broad-based consumption tax.\u201d\u201cI am glad the carbon tax has been axed \u2026 we have Direct Action and there are programs that hopefully can assist \u2026 but the idea that somehow we inflict on every household the fact that we would attack their power prices to the Australian taxation offices. They took it to the Australian people and the Australian people rejected it,\u201d Joyce said.", "tags": ["Carbon tax", "Australian politics", "Australia news", "Coalition", "Clive Palmer", "Environment", "Tony Abbott", "Australian Greens", "Penny Wong", "Labor party", "Christine Milne", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Climate change", "Gas", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Asia Pacific", "Barnaby Joyce", "Liberal party"], "title": "Australia kills off carbon tax"},{"date": "2014-09-23T13:00:15Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It\u2019s 6am on a winter\u2019s morning: mist is rising off the lake, and the kookaburras laugh in a nearby gum, challenging the laggards to get up and enjoy yet another sunny day in the low-to-mid-20s. That\u2019s 20C, not your Pommy 20 Fahrenheit \u2013 it never gets that cold here.We turn over in bed. No need for us oldies to get up just yet, though our friendly juvenile whip-bird has now joined the morning chorus, lulling us back to sleep.Boreen Point is 20km from civilisation, by road or by river, but many more from the cares of the everyday world. Ready to retire from the city life 10 years ago, we were fortunate in finding the right place at the right price at the right time. We only needed a six-month babysitting sojourn with our grandchildren in Kirriemuir, Scotland, to convince us that we could easily adapt to life in a small community: in this case, one that houses less than 200 people, after a lifetime spent, in my case, living and working in cities from 1 to 8 million, here in Australia and in Britain.Our little community sometimes swells, especially at holiday times and when there is a sailing regatta, or our international arts festival The Floating Land is happening, to almost 1,000: every spare bed in the town is occupied. Many of us are retired, but a growing number of young families have come here to share the tranquillity and embrace our natural environment. We respect our neighbours\u2019 privacy, while knowing that help will be at hand when it is needed.We\u2019re high on a hill, a mere 6km from the ocean, with the sound of the breaking waves soothing us to sleep at night. Lake Cootharaba on the pristine Noosa river separates us from the beach to the east, while to the north, west and south, national parks and state forests surround us. We have a village store and a convivial hotel, the Apollonian, just around the corner. If we don\u2019t feel like driving, a $1 flexi-taxi service will take us to the shops and services 20km away.What more could anybody ask for?Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Queensland"], "title": "Letter from Australia: Point to point"},{"date": "2014-07-01T03:48:51Z", "country": "australia", "content": " Guardian Australia has appointed three-time Walkley Award winner Gay Alcorn as its Melbourne editor. The agreement will see Alcorn take on the position from August 1 with responsibility for covering key Melbourne and Victorian issues, and large national stories.Alcorn will be supported by Oliver Milman in the Guardian Australia\u2019s new Melbourne office, and another new recruit, Melissa Davey. \u201cI am delighted to appoint Gay Alcorn as Guardian Australia\u2019s Melbourne editor, a role she will assume from August 1. As a three-time Walkley Award Winner, Gay has had an outstanding career as both a writer and an editor. She's an amazing journalist and will bring huge extra heft to our reporting, not just in Melbourne and Victoria, but also nationally.Gay will join Oliver Milman in our new Melbourne office, and new recruit, Melissa Davey, a talented young reporter with a wealth of medical reporting as well as general news reporting under her belt,\" said Emily Wilson, editor of Guardian Australia.Alcorn has been deputy editor of The Age and was editor of The Sunday Age for four years until the end of 2012, when she returned to writing. Last year, Alcorn launched and edited The Conversation\u2019s Election FactCheck for the federal election. Alcon was also Fairfax's Washington correspondent during the 2000 Bush-Gore presidential election and the September 11 terrorist attacks. Davey moved to Sydney in 2007 after completing a double degree in journalism and international relations at Curtin University in Perth. She previously worked at Fairfax for the Sydney Morning Herald in news and medical reporting roles and has written for a number of websites and publications including Daily Life, Australian Doctor and Crikey.Guardian Australia has already made several high profile appointments in 2014 including Walkley award-winning cartoonist Andrew Marlton (First Dog On The Moon) in April and Dave Earley, The Courier Mail\u2019s engagement editor, who will join Guardian Australia as a deputy audience development editor.The news comes off the back of Guardian Australia announcing earlier this year it will open a third Australian office located in Melbourne to support the rapid expansion of its Australian operations; and the creation of 12 new roles in Sydney and Melbourne since the beginning of the year. With a global digital audience of 100m monthly unique browsers, the Guardian is the third largest English language newspaper website in the world. Guardian Australia offers Australian audiences high-quality, independent and innovative local journalism, publishing some of the best writers in Australia alongside the best of the Guardian's global journalism.Readers can access Guardian Australia content 24 hours a day via theguardian.com, both on desktop and mobile, follow @GuardianAus on Twitter, like the Guardian Australia Facebook page, subscribe to the daily email update and can also download the Guardian App for Android and the Guardian App for iOS which both have Australian edition options.Guardian News & Media (GNM) publishes theguardian.com, the third largest English-speaking newspaper website in the world (comScore, January 2013). Since launching its US and Australia digital editions in 2011 and 2013 respectively, traffic from outside of the UK now represents over two-thirds of the Guardian's total digital audience.In the UK, GNM publishes the Guardian newspaper six days a week and the world's oldest Sunday newspaper, The Observer.The newspapers were named the most trustworthy, accurate and reliable newspapers in the UK in 2013.The Guardian, which was first published in 1821, is most recently renowned for its agenda-setting NSA and GCHQ revelations following disclosures by whistleblower Edward Snowden, its globally acclaimed investigation into phone hacking and the launch of its groundbreaking digital-first strategy in 2011 and its trailblazing partnership with WikiLeaks in 2010. . The ultimate owner of the Guardian is The Scott Trust, which was originally created as a trust in 1936 to safeguard the title's journalistic freedom. In 2008 it was replaced by a limited company with the same core purpose of the original trust: to secure the financial and editorial independence of the Guardian in perpetuity, while its subsidiary aims are to champion its principles and to promote freedom of the press in the UK and elsewhere. Other than to cover expense, The Scott Trust takes no dividend from the group's businesses, whose profits are instead reinvested to sustain journalism that is free from commercial or political interference.Guardian Australia Team at Text100: GuardianAustralia@text100.com or Tel: 02 9956 573", "tags": ["GNM press office", "Press releases 2014", "Guardian Australia press office", "Press releases"], "title": "Guardian Australia appoints Melbourne Editor"},{"date": "2014-08-17T04:19:26Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia will reserve more than 2,000 places in its refugee program for Syrians, at the same time as it tries to return Syrians held in offshore detention to the country the immigration minister describes as \u201cin the midst of a terrible conflict\u201d.Syrian refugees will have 2,200 places set aside within the Special Humanitarian Program (SHP), which takes in refugees who can prove they already have a connection to Australia.Scott Morrison also announced 2,200 places in the program would be set aside for Iraqis. The places are part of the government\u2019s formal refugee intake of 13,750, which the Coalition reduced from 20,000 when it came to office last year.Australia is holding Iraqis and Syrians who tried to reach Australia by boat in offshore detention centres and tried to send Syrians back to the country, despite claims by at least one that he faced certain death if returned.Morrison said the commitment to set aside the places highlighted \u201cthe humanitarian dividend from the government\u2019s successful border protection policies\u201d.\u201cThis government has made it very clear that priority in the humanitarian program should be for those waiting overseas and entering Australia under an orderly process,\u201d he said in a statement released on Sunday.The government also promised to take in at least 4,500 Syrian refugees over the next three years.\u201cWith the continued violence in Iraq and Syria, the Australian government is dedicated to ensuring its humanitarian programme reaches those who need it most,\u201d Morrison said.Syrians on Manus Island have been told their details would be passed to the Syrian consulate if they returned and five Syrian men were split up in the Manus Island detention centre \u201cto keep them quiet\u201d earlier this year as the government tried to return them.The SHP targets people with family already in Australia or who can prove strong links and support within the community. Morrison said of the 2,200 Syrian refugees who would come to Australia, some would be already \u201cliving in desperate conditions in countries such as Lebanon\u201d.Lebanon has more than 1.1 million registered Syrian refugees, mostly living in camps.The SHP, which the government has set at about 4,000 places, receives more than 40,000 applications each year.Morrison said the SHP had been \u201cdecimated\u201d under Labor, which reduced it to 500 spots within its 20,000 refugee intake program.\u201cIt was extremely disappointing that up to 4,000 applicants waiting in the queue missed out on places in this program, and that their places were being taken up by those who had arrived illegally by boat,\u201d he said.\u201cThe government\u2019s policies under Operation Sovereign Borders have not only saved lives at sea, but also allowed more places to be returned to our humanitarian program for the world\u2019s most desperate and vulnerable people.\u201dMorrison\u2019s statement said the government had granted 1,050 visas for women at risk, predominantly from Afghanistan, as well as 1,800 Burmese refugees and 2,754 Afghans. All the places are within the humanitarian program, not in addition to the 13,750 places allocated to it.Burmese refugees have been allocated 2,000 places in the coming year. \u201cEveryone who is accepted under the formal refugee and humanitarian program are subject to the appropriate checks. It is not simply a process of walking straight out of a camp and onto a plane. Issues, such as identity, health and security are all subject to assessment,\u201d Morrison said.\u201cThe program also endeavours to focus on those who have a network of support that can assist their resettlement, such as local church communities who have strong ethnic and cultural connections. This has proved particularly helpful for those being resettled from the Middle East and Burma.\u201d", "tags": ["Australian immigration and asylum", "Australia news", "Syria", "Australian politics", "Scott Morrison", "Refugees", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Australia reserves 2,200 places for Syrian refugees"},{"date": "2014-07-05T06:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Albany is a chronically underrated city. It was the first European settlement in Western Australia and should have been the capital, but was annexed by the British in 1791. It's physically lovely, with the best natural harbour in Australia outside Sydney and lots of remnants of Victorian architecture. It was a very conservative town back in the day, but it has changed. There's a growing eco-tourism industry and lots of younger people are choosing to move there.My family moved to Albany from Perth when I was 12. We were only there for three years but it had a profound effect on me as a person and, later, as a writer. I think it's something to do with its wildness. For a young person who felt claustrophobic being surrounded by strangers, it was reassuring to know that within minutes I could be out in the bush or on a beach with no other footprints in the sand.Some locals say the top of Mount Clarence is the essence of the area. It's the site of the Anzac Desert Mounted Corp war memorial and the view is incredible \u2013 you can see all the islands and bays stretching out right around you. But for me the heart of the city is the Princess Royal Harbour, where all the whalers and tuna fisherman used to be. These days a lot of the old harpooners have become environmentalists. You'll meet them sometimes working as tour guides at Whale World, a museum in the former whaling station.Whale-watching is something every visitor should do. Boat trips go from the harbour but you can see them by just standing on Cheynes Beach, 42 miles east of Albany, or from the Shelley Beach Lookout on West Cape Howe to the west of town. The whaling station closed down in 1978 and the last few times I've been back I have seen more whales in a week than I did in the three years I lived here. The best time to see them is in winter (June \u2013 August), when they come up from the Antarctic and migrate to the tropics.The beaches are one of the most beautiful things about Albany. The sand is so fine that if you scuff your feet along at night, you can see sparks shoot off your shoes. Ocean Beach near the town of Denmark, is best for surfing and only a half-hour drive from the city. For swimming, I'd recommend Middleton Beach. Whales come so close to the shore that a few years ago someone was fined for swimming up and climbing on to the back of one.The Rocks on Grey Street West is a great place to stay as a treat. It's a really flash B&B in a grand Victorian building that was the old governor's residence overlooking the harbour. The owners really know how to look after people. The White Star Hotel on Stirling Terrace used to be a \"bloodhouse\" \u2013 a dodgy pub with a violent reputation \u2013 but now it's a friendly place where they brew their own, very serviceable beers. When I meet up with friends we might go for a drink there, then see a show at the Albany Entertainment Centre before ending up at The Venice (179 York Street). It's a lively but homely Italian and is the best place to eat local seafood \u2013 from blue swimmer crabs to queen snapper. I'd go for the spaghetti and mussels.If I could change one thing it would be the weather. The Minang Noongar Aboriginal people call Albany Kinjarling, meaning the place of rain. It's a good place to go if you want to visit Australia but don't fancy being brutalised by the heat.A tip: be wary when sitting on blowholes. As kids we loved to go to Torndirrup national park, a few miles south of Albany, where there are granite rocks with crevices that reach down to the sea below. When the waves come in, water comes spurting out of the top of them, and as it's a raging ocean you never know how strong the force is going to be. If you sit on one, be prepared to end up with your clothes flapping and your hair straight up in the air.Tim Winton's latest novel, Eyrie, is out now (Picador, \u00a316.99). To order a copy from the Guardian Bookshop for \u00a313.49, including UK p&p, call 0330 333 6846 or visit guardianbookshop.co.uk", "tags": ["Australia holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Travel", "Perth holidays", "Western Australia holidays", "Tim Winton"], "title": "Tim Winton on Albany, Western Australia"},{"date": "2014-08-26T02:13:36Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last April Jeremy Geia posted his driver\u2019s licence to the chief minister of the Australian Capital Territory, where he was then living, with a polite note explaining why he no longer needed it.Then he returned his passport and Medicare card to the federal government.Geia sent them back because he had decided to \u201cleave Australia\u201d while remaining in this continent, by reverting to his tribal name and adhering primarily to the law of his people, the Yidindji of north Queensland.While severing all official contact and contracts with Australian institutions, he made a few more momentous life decisions too, relinquishing a good salary by quitting his job as chief political correspondent in the Canberra press gallery for National Indigenous Television, giving away most of his things, and abandoning his bank accounts and 20 years\u2019 superannuation.We are talking in Cairns over breakfast (my shout; he carries barely enough change to park his borrowed car) about what inspired him to abandon what he calls the \u201cAustralian citizen ship\u201d.Murrumu Walubara Yidindji, as he is now, is highly adept with words \u2013 consistent with the reputation he honed in Canberra and elsewhere (among other stories he broke, Murrumu was the first western reporter to interview Julian Assange in London\u2019s Ecuadorian embassy) as a highly respected journalist. He footnotes his English aphorism with Latin interpretation and constantly riffs \u2013 even kind of raps \u2013 off the entendre of words he so precisely selects.He\u2019s a warm, enigmatic big bear of a bloke with whom conversation oscillates seamlessly from the intensely political (sovereignty and the sites where his people were massacred) to prosaic (football, kids, mutual friends, weather).To begin to understand Murrumu it\u2019s perhaps best to start here.\u201cSuperficies solo credit \u2013 what is attached to the land belongs to the land,\u201d he says.\u201cQui prior est tempore potior est jure \u2013 first in time is best in law.\u201dMurrumu\u2019s message could not be clearer: the Yidindji have been on their land \u2013 which incorporates all of Cairns, extends from the Russell river in the south to the Mowbray in the north, and reaches from beyond the Malbon Thompson range and out into the Coral Sea past the Franklin Islands \u2013 since the Dreaming began. Any additions to that land, such as buildings and roads, piers and jetties, he insists, belong to the country itself and the Yidindji.\u201cThe Australian government sees us as the original inhabitants and [as] the original peoples, and that says to me that our law is strongest in law and their law is Johnny Come Lately,\u201d he says.Having rescinded and revoked any allegiance to the Commonwealth of Australia, he says, \u201c1788 is fast becoming 1984\u201d.\u201cThe rapid dominance resulting from British contact has fast turned many tribal people into state citizens who live lives of voluntary servitude far removed from their tribal duties and laws.\u201dWhile it seems that not all practical detail of abandoning the citizen ship has yet been finessed, Murrumu has embarked on a campaign \u2013 beginning this week in Canberra where he\u2019ll meet foreign diplomats and speak at the Australian National University \u2013 to cultivate international awareness about the supremacy of Yidindji law and his departure from Australia.\u201cPeople that know me and know what I\u2019m doing are more than happy to support me because they know that what I\u2019m doing is the truth,\u201d he says. \u201cThe truth is that we were here before the British. The truth is that we hold sovereignty and dominion over these lands. The truth is that there\u2019ve been genocide and multiple crimes against humanity and massacres committed on this land that haven\u2019t been brought to ... justice.\u201cWe\u2019ve sent notices to the world letting them know that Yidindji tribal authority is here and [about] my wish to make an offer to negotiate and ... to settle with the ones who are benefiting from the unjust enrichments from using my ancestral lands and my child\u2019s property.\u201dHe has written to Tony Abbott, whom he knows personally. But so far he\u2019s only received an impersonal response from the prime minister\u2019s department.Murrumu says while he had been contemplating a return to tribal law for some time, the political instability, treachery, deceit and self-indulgence surrounding the Labor leadership, especially in mid-2013 when Kevin Rudd reassumed the prime ministership, helped crystallise his decision.\u201cEveryone in Parliament House was talking about it and at that stage I thought, \u2018This is childlike \u2013 how can people, including my people, improve their lives when this type of caper is going on?\u2019 \u201cWhile that circus was happening a lot of people who had put their faith in voting and in the political process had been disrespected. That, for me, was the tipping point and I made a decision to say, \u2018You know what? This is a system that\u2019s not for me. That\u2019s when I decided to jump off the citizen ship, leave Australia.\u201dDivesting personal possessions is liberating, says Murrumu, who, I\u2019m guessing, might be in his late 30s or early 40s.I do ask his age, and he says: \u201cI have been here since the beginning of time. My body has information that is tens of thousands of years old.\u201dFair enough.Today he owns seven T-shirts and one pair of trousers. Nothing else. No longer opening mail is a blessing, he says. Notably, for a bloke who\u2019s off the grid, he\u2019s still on the net and his emails arrive under his tribal moniker.He lives with friends including a Yidindji elder, Gudju Gudju, on the outskirts of Cairns where the fecund, black earth, with its countless worry lines of rivulets and streams, begins to rise gently into the dense, lush rainforest of the ancient range.\u201cAnd I do still love my English football \u2013 Liverpool. And English breakfast tea,\u201d he volunteers.Then he laughs because ... well, yes, the irony, which is pretty acute, is not lost on him. But then again, he\u2019s not declaring war on Britain and Australia, \u201cjust peacefully going back to my original law\u201d. While plenty may \u2013 and will \u2013 disagree, I guess Murrumu is still entitled to support whichever English Premier League team he likes and imbibe whatever cha, so long as it\u2019s on someone else\u2019s flat screen and there are mates willing to spot him a teabag or two.As we drive to the place where he sleeps (\u201cI live in here,\u201d he insists, tapping his chest, in a way that prompts you to think about your own life) a police car passes on the other side of the highway.\u201cPolicy enforcement officers,\u201d Murrumu says, shaking his head.Officers who would doubtless be confused should they pull Murrumu over and demand to see his licence.\u201cYeah, I don\u2019t hold a licence because it had the incorrect name on it [Jeremy Geia] and furthermore I did not want to hold a licence because the supreme creator here is Gayaburra Goopi and he gave the tribal people the law to uphold and this gives us the supreme authority on the land,\u201d he says.He explains that he and a few others who are following his example carry only a document, created by him, that explains their tribal identity. Yidindji number plates and perhaps even currency are planned. In the meantime Murrumu is growing food and bartering, sometimes with his own impressive paintings, demand for which is growing.\u201cWho created the licences ... and all these other things that Australian citizens use? It\u2019s the crown or the commonwealth. So they belong to them. And you know, give back to Caesar what belongs to Rome ... this is your stuff, so take it back.\u201dAbout here I start to wonder if Murrumu is having just a little bit of a lend. He says that if stopped by the Australian authorities he would identify himself as a tribal man who lives outside Australia and he expects that his status would be respected.And I also wonder if he\u2019s having me on when he acknowledges the advantages of living in Australia, such as Medicare and public hospitals and schools, but reiterates \u201cwhat is attached to the land belongs to the land\u201d and \u201cif this is tribal land then surely all these buildings belong to the tribe\u201d, which leads inevitably to this exchange:\u201cOK, so your kid gets sick and needs to go to hospital and he needs to go to school, how do you deal with that practicality?\u201dMurrumu: \u201cWell, we just take them to school, and they get an education.\u201d\u201cBut that is an education provided by the state.\u201dMurrumu: \u201cYeah, but that school\u2019s on my land.\u201d\u201cThe same with the hospital, right?\u201d\u201cThat\u2019s exactly right.\u201dBut by the time we get to Gudju Gudju\u2019s house, Murrumu has mentioned perhaps half a dozen times the massacre of various tribal people, his own included, by soldiers, settlers and police that began with the arrival of the first citizen ship from England in 1788.Yes, he is provoking an important conversation by just about any verbal means possible. But in the end I am left in no doubt that he is entirely serious and that his resolve is sure. He\u2019s not having a lend.I meet Gudju Gudju, who takes me across the road to a grassy lot that abuts Skeleton creek. We stand beneath the impressive canopy of a monolithic raintree, imported from the Americas long after the British arrived, and Gudju Gudju rubs his scent on to me so the creek\u2019s spirits won\u2019t harm me.The \u201cold people\u201d, as Gudju Gudju calls them, are here now \u2013 right there, he says, just over my shoulder, along the creek bank, where their heads were cut off and placed on stakes. He incants in Yidindji, rubs his hands under his armpits and wipes them softly on my face and torso.Queensland was, perhaps, the stage for the most excessive frontier violence against the continent\u2019s Indigenous people. A growing body of evidence suggests upwards of 50,000 people died at the hands of settlers, soldiers and native police in colonial Queensland alone.Skeleton creek is the site of one such massacre in the 1880s. That is corroborated by both Yidindji oral history, as conveyed in Murrumu\u2019s 2010 painting Skeleton Creek, and colonial records. The locals were massacred and decapitated by settlers and the native police, and their heads put on stakes at regular intervals along the creek to stop the local clans continually crossing the waterway to attack pastoralists.After Canberra, Murrumu plans to take his message overseas. I\u2019m anxious on his behalf; I ask how he intends to travel abroad without an Australian passport.\u201cWell, I don\u2019t need a passport,\u201d he says. \u201cPassports are for citizens and I\u2019m not a citizen. I am a tribal man and there are ways that I can\u2019t disclose to you that I can travel under protection and with what people would say is diplomatic immunity.\u201dAnd so we can probably add Customs to the list of commonwealth of institutions \u2013 I\u2019m guessing behind Asio, the Queensland and federal police \u2013 that are likely to have a heightened awareness of Murrumu from now on.Murrumu seems to expect this but insists he\u2019s not afraid. \u201cI don\u2019t fear for my life because what I\u2019m doing is the truth. But I don\u2019t want to be intercepted or interfered with and the Australians must respect that.\u201cAnd if their police or their courts or their magistrates touch me or interfere with me then it will be an act of slavery and crimes against the tribe.\u201dWe may have heard the last of Jeremy Geia but we have not heard the last, I suspect, of Murrumu Walubara Yidindji.", "tags": ["Indigenous Australians", "Australia news", "Queensland"], "title": "The man who renounced Australia"},{"date": "2014-07-17T01:51:06Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia\u2019s carbon price has been repealed, leaving the nation with no legislated policy to achieve even the minimum 5% greenhouse emissions reduction target it has inscribed in international agreements.After eight years of bitter political debate, during which climate policy dominated three election campaigns and contributed to the demise of two prime ministers, after last week\u2019s Senate drama in which the repeal was again defeated and this week\u2019s lengthy last gasp debate, the Senate has now finally voted to make good Tony Abbott\u2019s \u201cpledge in blood\u201d to \u201caxe the tax\u201d.The government was backed by seven of the new crossbench senators, including the three Palmer United party senators, Liberal Democrat senator David Leyonhjelm, Family First senator Bob Day, Motoring Enthusiast senator Ricky Muir, DLP senator John Madigan. Independent senator Nick Xenophon was unwell.Only the Australian Labor party and the Greens voted against repealing the carbon pricing scheme they introduced, which came into effect two years ago.Leader of the government in the Senate and former climate change minister Penny Wong said repealing the bills meant \u201cthis nation will have walked away from a credible and efficient response to climate change\u201d.Wong said the prime minister Tony Abbott had \u201cstaked his political career \u2026 on fearmongering and scaremongering and that is what this debate has been about for years\u201d.\u201cI think future generations will look back on these bills and they will be appalled \u2026 at the short-sighted, opportunistic selfish politics of those opposite and Mr Abbott will go down as one of the most short-sighted, selfish and small people ever to occupy the office of prime minister.\u201dGovernment backbencher Ian Macdonald accused opposition parties of being hypocrites for refusing to accept the will of the voters and said that while he had \u201can open mind\u201d, he would like to point out that Brisbane had recently had its coldest day in 113 years.Greens leader Christine Milne said it was \u201ca vote for failure\u201d amid interjections from government backbenchers that she should \u201cget over it\u201d because the parliament was \u201crespecting the will of the Australian people\u201d.The bills passed 39:32. There was none of the jubilation that accompanied their passage in the lower house, but the leader of the government in the Senate, Eric Abetz, shook hands with backbench senator Cory Bernardi, who led the revolt against Malcolm Turnbull when, as leader of the opposition, he backed Labor\u2019s carbon pricing scheme.The tax was $25.40 a tonne and was scheduled to move to the floating and lower international price in 12 months.The repeal will cost the budget around $7bn over the next four years as around 350 businesses, mainly electricity generators and big manufacturers, no longer have to pay the tax.The government argues the carbon pricing scheme has been ineffective, but national emissions have actually fallen by 0.8% in the first calendar year of its operation, the largest fall in 24 years of records. Since the tax began, emissions from the east coast electricity market have fallen 11%, but emissions from other sources \u2013 especially coal and gas mining have increased.The government also says households will be better off by an average $550 \u2013 the amount treasury estimated prices would rise when the tax was introduced \u2013 but supermarkets and airlines are now saying consumers should not expect price reductions.The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission\u2019s special powers are to monitor and enforce only electricity and gas price reductions. Electricity bills will rise, but by an estimated 9% less than they otherwise would. Gas bills will rise by an estimated 7% less than they would have with the tax still in place.The Abbott government says it will now achieve the target of a 5% reduction in Australian emissions compared with 2000 levels by 2020 with its Direct Action policy, which will offer $2.5bn in competitive grants over the next four years to companies and organisations voluntarily reducing emissions. The budget actually allocated only $1.14bn over the four-year forward estimates for the scheme. The government said this is because they will pay on delivery of the abatement. The policy is voluntary and puts no overall cap on emissions.The government itself has not modelled Direct Action (Abbott said he would prefer to \u201chave a crack\u201d), but two other modelling exercises found even the 5% cut would cost far more than $2.5bn, and the independent climate change authority \u2013 which the government is seeking to abolish \u2013 has said Australia\u2019s \u201cfair share\u201d of international emissions reductions has now increased to between 15% and 19% by 2020.The government says it is sure Direct Action will meet the 5% target, but Abbott has said he will not allocate any more money even if it does not, and has not said how he would make deeper reductions in Australia\u2019s emissions which are likely to be required after the United Nations meeting to try to forge a new post-2020 climate agreement in Paris next year.Malcolm Turnbull warned of the long-term costs of the policy in a speech to parliament after he was deposed as leader because of his support for an emissions trading scheme, when he said Direct Action style schemes were \u201ca recipe for fiscal recklessness on a grand scale\u201d.The carbon price repeal bills were voted down in the Senate last week after a last-minute change to a Palmer United party amendment was ruled to be unconstitutional by the clerk of the Senate. The government had been prepared to accept the amendment but then changed it again over the weekend after business groups raised major concerns. Business groups welcomed the repeal as a \u201cfirst step\u201d towards achieving an effective emissions reduction policy.The Business Council of Australia, the Minerals Council of Australia and the Australian Industry Group called on the government to \u201cdevelop and implement a cost-effective emissions reduction fund\u201d as \u201cpart of a toolkit of measures to reduce emissions\u201d.But the Climate Institute thinktank said that \u201cby repealing laws that price and limit carbon pollution, Australia today became the world\u2019s first country to dismantle a functioning and effective carbon market, taking a monumentally reckless backward leap even as other major countries are stepping up climate action\u201d.And the Australian Conservation Foundation said: \u201cThis backwards step makes Australia an international embarrassment.\u201dDescribing it as a \u201ctragic day\u201d, Greens leader senator Christine Milne said after the vote that \u201cthe big polluters should pay for the destruction they are causing to the planet\u201d. She accused the Coalition of \u201cwanting to cost-shift the burden of climate change onto the community and away from the people who are causing it\u201d.Both Labor and the Greens say they remain committed to carbon pricing as the best way to reduce emissions.Speaking after the vote, agriculture minister Barnaby Joyce said the tax had imposed high costs on families, and questioned whether it was needed, saying \u201clook at the weather today, look at the way you are dressed, no one thinks it is too hot\u201d.\u201cI believe there is climate change happening, I just don\u2019t believe we are going to change it with a broad-based consumption tax.\u201d\u201cI am glad the carbon tax has been axed \u2026 we have Direct Action and there are programs that hopefully can assist \u2026 but the idea that somehow we inflict on every household the fact that we would attack their power prices to the Australian taxation offices. They took it to the Australian people and the Australian people rejected it,\u201d Joyce said.", "tags": ["Carbon tax", "Australian politics", "Australia news", "Coalition", "Clive Palmer", "Environment", "Tony Abbott", "Australian Greens", "Penny Wong", "Labor party", "Christine Milne", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Climate change", "Gas", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Asia Pacific", "Barnaby Joyce", "Liberal party"], "title": "Australia kills off carbon tax"},{"date": "2014-09-23T13:00:15Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It\u2019s 6am on a winter\u2019s morning: mist is rising off the lake, and the kookaburras laugh in a nearby gum, challenging the laggards to get up and enjoy yet another sunny day in the low-to-mid-20s. That\u2019s 20C, not your Pommy 20 Fahrenheit \u2013 it never gets that cold here.We turn over in bed. No need for us oldies to get up just yet, though our friendly juvenile whip-bird has now joined the morning chorus, lulling us back to sleep.Boreen Point is 20km from civilisation, by road or by river, but many more from the cares of the everyday world. Ready to retire from the city life 10 years ago, we were fortunate in finding the right place at the right price at the right time. We only needed a six-month babysitting sojourn with our grandchildren in Kirriemuir, Scotland, to convince us that we could easily adapt to life in a small community: in this case, one that houses less than 200 people, after a lifetime spent, in my case, living and working in cities from 1 to 8 million, here in Australia and in Britain.Our little community sometimes swells, especially at holiday times and when there is a sailing regatta, or our international arts festival The Floating Land is happening, to almost 1,000: every spare bed in the town is occupied. Many of us are retired, but a growing number of young families have come here to share the tranquillity and embrace our natural environment. We respect our neighbours\u2019 privacy, while knowing that help will be at hand when it is needed.We\u2019re high on a hill, a mere 6km from the ocean, with the sound of the breaking waves soothing us to sleep at night. Lake Cootharaba on the pristine Noosa river separates us from the beach to the east, while to the north, west and south, national parks and state forests surround us. We have a village store and a convivial hotel, the Apollonian, just around the corner. If we don\u2019t feel like driving, a $1 flexi-taxi service will take us to the shops and services 20km away.What more could anybody ask for?Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Queensland"], "title": "Letter from Australia: Point to point"},{"date": "2014-07-01T03:48:51Z", "country": "australia", "content": " Guardian Australia has appointed three-time Walkley Award winner Gay Alcorn as its Melbourne editor. The agreement will see Alcorn take on the position from August 1 with responsibility for covering key Melbourne and Victorian issues, and large national stories.Alcorn will be supported by Oliver Milman in the Guardian Australia\u2019s new Melbourne office, and another new recruit, Melissa Davey. \u201cI am delighted to appoint Gay Alcorn as Guardian Australia\u2019s Melbourne editor, a role she will assume from August 1. As a three-time Walkley Award Winner, Gay has had an outstanding career as both a writer and an editor. She's an amazing journalist and will bring huge extra heft to our reporting, not just in Melbourne and Victoria, but also nationally.Gay will join Oliver Milman in our new Melbourne office, and new recruit, Melissa Davey, a talented young reporter with a wealth of medical reporting as well as general news reporting under her belt,\" said Emily Wilson, editor of Guardian Australia.Alcorn has been deputy editor of The Age and was editor of The Sunday Age for four years until the end of 2012, when she returned to writing. Last year, Alcorn launched and edited The Conversation\u2019s Election FactCheck for the federal election. Alcon was also Fairfax's Washington correspondent during the 2000 Bush-Gore presidential election and the September 11 terrorist attacks. Davey moved to Sydney in 2007 after completing a double degree in journalism and international relations at Curtin University in Perth. She previously worked at Fairfax for the Sydney Morning Herald in news and medical reporting roles and has written for a number of websites and publications including Daily Life, Australian Doctor and Crikey.Guardian Australia has already made several high profile appointments in 2014 including Walkley award-winning cartoonist Andrew Marlton (First Dog On The Moon) in April and Dave Earley, The Courier Mail\u2019s engagement editor, who will join Guardian Australia as a deputy audience development editor.The news comes off the back of Guardian Australia announcing earlier this year it will open a third Australian office located in Melbourne to support the rapid expansion of its Australian operations; and the creation of 12 new roles in Sydney and Melbourne since the beginning of the year. With a global digital audience of 100m monthly unique browsers, the Guardian is the third largest English language newspaper website in the world. Guardian Australia offers Australian audiences high-quality, independent and innovative local journalism, publishing some of the best writers in Australia alongside the best of the Guardian's global journalism.Readers can access Guardian Australia content 24 hours a day via theguardian.com, both on desktop and mobile, follow @GuardianAus on Twitter, like the Guardian Australia Facebook page, subscribe to the daily email update and can also download the Guardian App for Android and the Guardian App for iOS which both have Australian edition options.Guardian News & Media (GNM) publishes theguardian.com, the third largest English-speaking newspaper website in the world (comScore, January 2013). Since launching its US and Australia digital editions in 2011 and 2013 respectively, traffic from outside of the UK now represents over two-thirds of the Guardian's total digital audience.In the UK, GNM publishes the Guardian newspaper six days a week and the world's oldest Sunday newspaper, The Observer.The newspapers were named the most trustworthy, accurate and reliable newspapers in the UK in 2013.The Guardian, which was first published in 1821, is most recently renowned for its agenda-setting NSA and GCHQ revelations following disclosures by whistleblower Edward Snowden, its globally acclaimed investigation into phone hacking and the launch of its groundbreaking digital-first strategy in 2011 and its trailblazing partnership with WikiLeaks in 2010. . The ultimate owner of the Guardian is The Scott Trust, which was originally created as a trust in 1936 to safeguard the title's journalistic freedom. In 2008 it was replaced by a limited company with the same core purpose of the original trust: to secure the financial and editorial independence of the Guardian in perpetuity, while its subsidiary aims are to champion its principles and to promote freedom of the press in the UK and elsewhere. Other than to cover expense, The Scott Trust takes no dividend from the group's businesses, whose profits are instead reinvested to sustain journalism that is free from commercial or political interference.Guardian Australia Team at Text100: GuardianAustralia@text100.com or Tel: 02 9956 573", "tags": ["GNM press office", "Press releases 2014", "Guardian Australia press office", "Press releases"], "title": "Guardian Australia appoints Melbourne Editor"},{"date": "2014-08-17T04:19:26Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia will reserve more than 2,000 places in its refugee program for Syrians, at the same time as it tries to return Syrians held in offshore detention to the country the immigration minister describes as \u201cin the midst of a terrible conflict\u201d.Syrian refugees will have 2,200 places set aside within the Special Humanitarian Program (SHP), which takes in refugees who can prove they already have a connection to Australia.Scott Morrison also announced 2,200 places in the program would be set aside for Iraqis. The places are part of the government\u2019s formal refugee intake of 13,750, which the Coalition reduced from 20,000 when it came to office last year.Australia is holding Iraqis and Syrians who tried to reach Australia by boat in offshore detention centres and tried to send Syrians back to the country, despite claims by at least one that he faced certain death if returned.Morrison said the commitment to set aside the places highlighted \u201cthe humanitarian dividend from the government\u2019s successful border protection policies\u201d.\u201cThis government has made it very clear that priority in the humanitarian program should be for those waiting overseas and entering Australia under an orderly process,\u201d he said in a statement released on Sunday.The government also promised to take in at least 4,500 Syrian refugees over the next three years.\u201cWith the continued violence in Iraq and Syria, the Australian government is dedicated to ensuring its humanitarian programme reaches those who need it most,\u201d Morrison said.Syrians on Manus Island have been told their details would be passed to the Syrian consulate if they returned and five Syrian men were split up in the Manus Island detention centre \u201cto keep them quiet\u201d earlier this year as the government tried to return them.The SHP targets people with family already in Australia or who can prove strong links and support within the community. Morrison said of the 2,200 Syrian refugees who would come to Australia, some would be already \u201cliving in desperate conditions in countries such as Lebanon\u201d.Lebanon has more than 1.1 million registered Syrian refugees, mostly living in camps.The SHP, which the government has set at about 4,000 places, receives more than 40,000 applications each year.Morrison said the SHP had been \u201cdecimated\u201d under Labor, which reduced it to 500 spots within its 20,000 refugee intake program.\u201cIt was extremely disappointing that up to 4,000 applicants waiting in the queue missed out on places in this program, and that their places were being taken up by those who had arrived illegally by boat,\u201d he said.\u201cThe government\u2019s policies under Operation Sovereign Borders have not only saved lives at sea, but also allowed more places to be returned to our humanitarian program for the world\u2019s most desperate and vulnerable people.\u201dMorrison\u2019s statement said the government had granted 1,050 visas for women at risk, predominantly from Afghanistan, as well as 1,800 Burmese refugees and 2,754 Afghans. All the places are within the humanitarian program, not in addition to the 13,750 places allocated to it.Burmese refugees have been allocated 2,000 places in the coming year. \u201cEveryone who is accepted under the formal refugee and humanitarian program are subject to the appropriate checks. It is not simply a process of walking straight out of a camp and onto a plane. Issues, such as identity, health and security are all subject to assessment,\u201d Morrison said.\u201cThe program also endeavours to focus on those who have a network of support that can assist their resettlement, such as local church communities who have strong ethnic and cultural connections. This has proved particularly helpful for those being resettled from the Middle East and Burma.\u201d", "tags": ["Australian immigration and asylum", "Australia news", "Syria", "Australian politics", "Scott Morrison", "Refugees", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Australia reserves 2,200 places for Syrian refugees"},{"date": "2014-07-05T06:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Albany is a chronically underrated city. It was the first European settlement in Western Australia and should have been the capital, but was annexed by the British in 1791. It's physically lovely, with the best natural harbour in Australia outside Sydney and lots of remnants of Victorian architecture. It was a very conservative town back in the day, but it has changed. There's a growing eco-tourism industry and lots of younger people are choosing to move there.My family moved to Albany from Perth when I was 12. We were only there for three years but it had a profound effect on me as a person and, later, as a writer. I think it's something to do with its wildness. For a young person who felt claustrophobic being surrounded by strangers, it was reassuring to know that within minutes I could be out in the bush or on a beach with no other footprints in the sand.Some locals say the top of Mount Clarence is the essence of the area. It's the site of the Anzac Desert Mounted Corp war memorial and the view is incredible \u2013 you can see all the islands and bays stretching out right around you. But for me the heart of the city is the Princess Royal Harbour, where all the whalers and tuna fisherman used to be. These days a lot of the old harpooners have become environmentalists. You'll meet them sometimes working as tour guides at Whale World, a museum in the former whaling station.Whale-watching is something every visitor should do. Boat trips go from the harbour but you can see them by just standing on Cheynes Beach, 42 miles east of Albany, or from the Shelley Beach Lookout on West Cape Howe to the west of town. The whaling station closed down in 1978 and the last few times I've been back I have seen more whales in a week than I did in the three years I lived here. The best time to see them is in winter (June \u2013 August), when they come up from the Antarctic and migrate to the tropics.The beaches are one of the most beautiful things about Albany. The sand is so fine that if you scuff your feet along at night, you can see sparks shoot off your shoes. Ocean Beach near the town of Denmark, is best for surfing and only a half-hour drive from the city. For swimming, I'd recommend Middleton Beach. Whales come so close to the shore that a few years ago someone was fined for swimming up and climbing on to the back of one.The Rocks on Grey Street West is a great place to stay as a treat. It's a really flash B&B in a grand Victorian building that was the old governor's residence overlooking the harbour. The owners really know how to look after people. The White Star Hotel on Stirling Terrace used to be a \"bloodhouse\" \u2013 a dodgy pub with a violent reputation \u2013 but now it's a friendly place where they brew their own, very serviceable beers. When I meet up with friends we might go for a drink there, then see a show at the Albany Entertainment Centre before ending up at The Venice (179 York Street). It's a lively but homely Italian and is the best place to eat local seafood \u2013 from blue swimmer crabs to queen snapper. I'd go for the spaghetti and mussels.If I could change one thing it would be the weather. The Minang Noongar Aboriginal people call Albany Kinjarling, meaning the place of rain. It's a good place to go if you want to visit Australia but don't fancy being brutalised by the heat.A tip: be wary when sitting on blowholes. As kids we loved to go to Torndirrup national park, a few miles south of Albany, where there are granite rocks with crevices that reach down to the sea below. When the waves come in, water comes spurting out of the top of them, and as it's a raging ocean you never know how strong the force is going to be. If you sit on one, be prepared to end up with your clothes flapping and your hair straight up in the air.Tim Winton's latest novel, Eyrie, is out now (Picador, \u00a316.99). To order a copy from the Guardian Bookshop for \u00a313.49, including UK p&p, call 0330 333 6846 or visit guardianbookshop.co.uk", "tags": ["Australia holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Travel", "Perth holidays", "Western Australia holidays", "Tim Winton"], "title": "Tim Winton on Albany, Western Australia"},{"date": "2014-09-25T05:41:32Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Daily Mail Australia and News Corp have reached a confidential legal settlement three months after Rupert Murdoch\u2019s Australian arm accused it of plagiarism.A spokesman for Mail Online\u2019s publisher, Martin Clarke, confirmed that an agreement had been reached but declined to give details.However, Guardian Australia understands no money changed hands.A News Corp Australia spokesman said: \u201cWe have settled our dispute with the Mail Online. It was agreed to keep the terms of the settlement confidential. We do note there has been a change in the practices of the Mail Online since we made our complaint. We are keeping a vigilant eye for any future breaches of copyright.\u201dShortly after Britain\u2019s Mail Online officially rebranded as Daily Mail Australia, in a joint venture with Nine\u2019s digital arm Mi9, News Corp launched a campaign against its commercial competitor.News Corp sent a legal letter asking the company to stop using its content or face a lawsuit.\u201cWe have taken this action because we believe the Daily Mail Australia is breaching our copyright by lifting substantial slabs of original content from a large number of articles from our mastheads,\u201d a News Corp spokesman said in June.Daily Mail returned fire, alleging News Corp had \u201clifted\u201d content from its publications without proper attribution or links.In the latest Nielsen Online news rankings, Daily Mail Australia moved up to fifth spot, ahead of all the News Corp mastheads except news.com.au.Guardian Australia is seventh.In an interview with the Financial Times, Clarke said the matter had been resolved \u201cvery much to my satisfaction\u201d. ", "tags": ["News Corporation", "Mail Online", "Plagiarism", "Media", "Media business", "Digital media", "Internet"], "title": "Daily Mail Australia and News Corp settle over plagiarism claim"},{"date": "2014-08-26T02:13:36Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last April Jeremy Geia posted his driver\u2019s licence to the chief minister of the Australian Capital Territory, where he was then living, with a polite note explaining why he no longer needed it.Then he returned his passport and Medicare card to the federal government.Geia sent them back because he had decided to \u201cleave Australia\u201d while remaining in this continent, by reverting to his tribal name and adhering primarily to the law of his people, the Yidindji of north Queensland.While severing all official contact and contracts with Australian institutions, he made a few more momentous life decisions too, relinquishing a good salary by quitting his job as chief political correspondent in the Canberra press gallery for National Indigenous Television, giving away most of his things, and abandoning his bank accounts and 20 years\u2019 superannuation.We are talking in Cairns over breakfast (my shout; he carries barely enough change to park his borrowed car) about what inspired him to abandon what he calls the \u201cAustralian citizen ship\u201d.Murrumu Walubara Yidindji, as he is now, is highly adept with words \u2013 consistent with the reputation he honed in Canberra and elsewhere (among other stories he broke, Murrumu was the first western reporter to interview Julian Assange in London\u2019s Ecuadorian embassy) as a highly respected journalist. He footnotes his English aphorism with Latin interpretation and constantly riffs \u2013 even kind of raps \u2013 off the entendre of words he so precisely selects.He\u2019s a warm, enigmatic big bear of a bloke with whom conversation oscillates seamlessly from the intensely political (sovereignty and the sites where his people were massacred) to prosaic (football, kids, mutual friends, weather).To begin to understand Murrumu it\u2019s perhaps best to start here.\u201cSuperficies solo credit \u2013 what is attached to the land belongs to the land,\u201d he says.\u201cQui prior est tempore potior est jure \u2013 first in time is best in law.\u201dMurrumu\u2019s message could not be clearer: the Yidindji have been on their land \u2013 which incorporates all of Cairns, extends from the Russell river in the south to the Mowbray in the north, and reaches from beyond the Malbon Thompson range and out into the Coral Sea past the Franklin Islands \u2013 since the Dreaming began. Any additions to that land, such as buildings and roads, piers and jetties, he insists, belong to the country itself and the Yidindji.\u201cThe Australian government sees us as the original inhabitants and [as] the original peoples, and that says to me that our law is strongest in law and their law is Johnny Come Lately,\u201d he says.Having rescinded and revoked any allegiance to the Commonwealth of Australia, he says, \u201c1788 is fast becoming 1984\u201d.\u201cThe rapid dominance resulting from British contact has fast turned many tribal people into state citizens who live lives of voluntary servitude far removed from their tribal duties and laws.\u201dWhile it seems that not all practical detail of abandoning the citizen ship has yet been finessed, Murrumu has embarked on a campaign \u2013 beginning this week in Canberra where he\u2019ll meet foreign diplomats and speak at the Australian National University \u2013 to cultivate international awareness about the supremacy of Yidindji law and his departure from Australia.\u201cPeople that know me and know what I\u2019m doing are more than happy to support me because they know that what I\u2019m doing is the truth,\u201d he says. \u201cThe truth is that we were here before the British. The truth is that we hold sovereignty and dominion over these lands. The truth is that there\u2019ve been genocide and multiple crimes against humanity and massacres committed on this land that haven\u2019t been brought to ... justice.\u201cWe\u2019ve sent notices to the world letting them know that Yidindji tribal authority is here and [about] my wish to make an offer to negotiate and ... to settle with the ones who are benefiting from the unjust enrichments from using my ancestral lands and my child\u2019s property.\u201dHe has written to Tony Abbott, whom he knows personally. But so far he\u2019s only received an impersonal response from the prime minister\u2019s department.Murrumu says while he had been contemplating a return to tribal law for some time, the political instability, treachery, deceit and self-indulgence surrounding the Labor leadership, especially in mid-2013 when Kevin Rudd reassumed the prime ministership, helped crystallise his decision.\u201cEveryone in Parliament House was talking about it and at that stage I thought, \u2018This is childlike \u2013 how can people, including my people, improve their lives when this type of caper is going on?\u2019 \u201cWhile that circus was happening a lot of people who had put their faith in voting and in the political process had been disrespected. That, for me, was the tipping point and I made a decision to say, \u2018You know what? This is a system that\u2019s not for me. That\u2019s when I decided to jump off the citizen ship, leave Australia.\u201dDivesting personal possessions is liberating, says Murrumu, who, I\u2019m guessing, might be in his late 30s or early 40s.I do ask his age, and he says: \u201cI have been here since the beginning of time. My body has information that is tens of thousands of years old.\u201dFair enough.Today he owns seven T-shirts and one pair of trousers. Nothing else. No longer opening mail is a blessing, he says. Notably, for a bloke who\u2019s off the grid, he\u2019s still on the net and his emails arrive under his tribal moniker.He lives with friends including a Yidindji elder, Gudju Gudju, on the outskirts of Cairns where the fecund, black earth, with its countless worry lines of rivulets and streams, begins to rise gently into the dense, lush rainforest of the ancient range.\u201cAnd I do still love my English football \u2013 Liverpool. And English breakfast tea,\u201d he volunteers.Then he laughs because ... well, yes, the irony, which is pretty acute, is not lost on him. But then again, he\u2019s not declaring war on Britain and Australia, \u201cjust peacefully going back to my original law\u201d. While plenty may \u2013 and will \u2013 disagree, I guess Murrumu is still entitled to support whichever English Premier League team he likes and imbibe whatever cha, so long as it\u2019s on someone else\u2019s flat screen and there are mates willing to spot him a teabag or two.As we drive to the place where he sleeps (\u201cI live in here,\u201d he insists, tapping his chest, in a way that prompts you to think about your own life) a police car passes on the other side of the highway.\u201cPolicy enforcement officers,\u201d Murrumu says, shaking his head.Officers who would doubtless be confused should they pull Murrumu over and demand to see his licence.\u201cYeah, I don\u2019t hold a licence because it had the incorrect name on it [Jeremy Geia] and furthermore I did not want to hold a licence because the supreme creator here is Gayaburra Goopi and he gave the tribal people the law to uphold and this gives us the supreme authority on the land,\u201d he says.He explains that he and a few others who are following his example carry only a document, created by him, that explains their tribal identity. Yidindji number plates and perhaps even currency are planned. In the meantime Murrumu is growing food and bartering, sometimes with his own impressive paintings, demand for which is growing.\u201cWho created the licences ... and all these other things that Australian citizens use? It\u2019s the crown or the commonwealth. So they belong to them. And you know, give back to Caesar what belongs to Rome ... this is your stuff, so take it back.\u201dAbout here I start to wonder if Murrumu is having just a little bit of a lend. He says that if stopped by the Australian authorities he would identify himself as a tribal man who lives outside Australia and he expects that his status would be respected.And I also wonder if he\u2019s having me on when he acknowledges the advantages of living in Australia, such as Medicare and public hospitals and schools, but reiterates \u201cwhat is attached to the land belongs to the land\u201d and \u201cif this is tribal land then surely all these buildings belong to the tribe\u201d, which leads inevitably to this exchange:\u201cOK, so your kid gets sick and needs to go to hospital and he needs to go to school, how do you deal with that practicality?\u201dMurrumu: \u201cWell, we just take them to school, and they get an education.\u201d\u201cBut that is an education provided by the state.\u201dMurrumu: \u201cYeah, but that school\u2019s on my land.\u201d\u201cThe same with the hospital, right?\u201d\u201cThat\u2019s exactly right.\u201dBut by the time we get to Gudju Gudju\u2019s house, Murrumu has mentioned perhaps half a dozen times the massacre of various tribal people, his own included, by soldiers, settlers and police that began with the arrival of the first citizen ship from England in 1788.Yes, he is provoking an important conversation by just about any verbal means possible. But in the end I am left in no doubt that he is entirely serious and that his resolve is sure. He\u2019s not having a lend.I meet Gudju Gudju, who takes me across the road to a grassy lot that abuts Skeleton creek. We stand beneath the impressive canopy of a monolithic raintree, imported from the Americas long after the British arrived, and Gudju Gudju rubs his scent on to me so the creek\u2019s spirits won\u2019t harm me.The \u201cold people\u201d, as Gudju Gudju calls them, are here now \u2013 right there, he says, just over my shoulder, along the creek bank, where their heads were cut off and placed on stakes. He incants in Yidindji, rubs his hands under his armpits and wipes them softly on my face and torso.Queensland was, perhaps, the stage for the most excessive frontier violence against the continent\u2019s Indigenous people. A growing body of evidence suggests upwards of 50,000 people died at the hands of settlers, soldiers and native police in colonial Queensland alone.Skeleton creek is the site of one such massacre in the 1880s. That is corroborated by both Yidindji oral history, as conveyed in Murrumu\u2019s 2010 painting Skeleton Creek, and colonial records. The locals were massacred and decapitated by settlers and the native police, and their heads put on stakes at regular intervals along the creek to stop the local clans continually crossing the waterway to attack pastoralists.After Canberra, Murrumu plans to take his message overseas. I\u2019m anxious on his behalf; I ask how he intends to travel abroad without an Australian passport.\u201cWell, I don\u2019t need a passport,\u201d he says. \u201cPassports are for citizens and I\u2019m not a citizen. I am a tribal man and there are ways that I can\u2019t disclose to you that I can travel under protection and with what people would say is diplomatic immunity.\u201dAnd so we can probably add Customs to the list of commonwealth of institutions \u2013 I\u2019m guessing behind Asio, the Queensland and federal police \u2013 that are likely to have a heightened awareness of Murrumu from now on.Murrumu seems to expect this but insists he\u2019s not afraid. \u201cI don\u2019t fear for my life because what I\u2019m doing is the truth. But I don\u2019t want to be intercepted or interfered with and the Australians must respect that.\u201cAnd if their police or their courts or their magistrates touch me or interfere with me then it will be an act of slavery and crimes against the tribe.\u201dWe may have heard the last of Jeremy Geia but we have not heard the last, I suspect, of Murrumu Walubara Yidindji.", "tags": ["Indigenous Australians", "Australia news", "Queensland"], "title": "The man who renounced Australia"},{"date": "2014-07-17T01:51:06Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia\u2019s carbon price has been repealed, leaving the nation with no legislated policy to achieve even the minimum 5% greenhouse emissions reduction target it has inscribed in international agreements.After eight years of bitter political debate, during which climate policy dominated three election campaigns and contributed to the demise of two prime ministers, after last week\u2019s Senate drama in which the repeal was again defeated and this week\u2019s lengthy last gasp debate, the Senate has now finally voted to make good Tony Abbott\u2019s \u201cpledge in blood\u201d to \u201caxe the tax\u201d.The government was backed by seven of the new crossbench senators, including the three Palmer United party senators, Liberal Democrat senator David Leyonhjelm, Family First senator Bob Day, Motoring Enthusiast senator Ricky Muir, DLP senator John Madigan. Independent senator Nick Xenophon was unwell.Only the Australian Labor party and the Greens voted against repealing the carbon pricing scheme they introduced, which came into effect two years ago.Leader of the government in the Senate and former climate change minister Penny Wong said repealing the bills meant \u201cthis nation will have walked away from a credible and efficient response to climate change\u201d.Wong said the prime minister Tony Abbott had \u201cstaked his political career \u2026 on fearmongering and scaremongering and that is what this debate has been about for years\u201d.\u201cI think future generations will look back on these bills and they will be appalled \u2026 at the short-sighted, opportunistic selfish politics of those opposite and Mr Abbott will go down as one of the most short-sighted, selfish and small people ever to occupy the office of prime minister.\u201dGovernment backbencher Ian Macdonald accused opposition parties of being hypocrites for refusing to accept the will of the voters and said that while he had \u201can open mind\u201d, he would like to point out that Brisbane had recently had its coldest day in 113 years.Greens leader Christine Milne said it was \u201ca vote for failure\u201d amid interjections from government backbenchers that she should \u201cget over it\u201d because the parliament was \u201crespecting the will of the Australian people\u201d.The bills passed 39:32. There was none of the jubilation that accompanied their passage in the lower house, but the leader of the government in the Senate, Eric Abetz, shook hands with backbench senator Cory Bernardi, who led the revolt against Malcolm Turnbull when, as leader of the opposition, he backed Labor\u2019s carbon pricing scheme.The tax was $25.40 a tonne and was scheduled to move to the floating and lower international price in 12 months.The repeal will cost the budget around $7bn over the next four years as around 350 businesses, mainly electricity generators and big manufacturers, no longer have to pay the tax.The government argues the carbon pricing scheme has been ineffective, but national emissions have actually fallen by 0.8% in the first calendar year of its operation, the largest fall in 24 years of records. Since the tax began, emissions from the east coast electricity market have fallen 11%, but emissions from other sources \u2013 especially coal and gas mining have increased.The government also says households will be better off by an average $550 \u2013 the amount treasury estimated prices would rise when the tax was introduced \u2013 but supermarkets and airlines are now saying consumers should not expect price reductions.The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission\u2019s special powers are to monitor and enforce only electricity and gas price reductions. Electricity bills will rise, but by an estimated 9% less than they otherwise would. Gas bills will rise by an estimated 7% less than they would have with the tax still in place.The Abbott government says it will now achieve the target of a 5% reduction in Australian emissions compared with 2000 levels by 2020 with its Direct Action policy, which will offer $2.5bn in competitive grants over the next four years to companies and organisations voluntarily reducing emissions. The budget actually allocated only $1.14bn over the four-year forward estimates for the scheme. The government said this is because they will pay on delivery of the abatement. The policy is voluntary and puts no overall cap on emissions.The government itself has not modelled Direct Action (Abbott said he would prefer to \u201chave a crack\u201d), but two other modelling exercises found even the 5% cut would cost far more than $2.5bn, and the independent climate change authority \u2013 which the government is seeking to abolish \u2013 has said Australia\u2019s \u201cfair share\u201d of international emissions reductions has now increased to between 15% and 19% by 2020.The government says it is sure Direct Action will meet the 5% target, but Abbott has said he will not allocate any more money even if it does not, and has not said how he would make deeper reductions in Australia\u2019s emissions which are likely to be required after the United Nations meeting to try to forge a new post-2020 climate agreement in Paris next year.Malcolm Turnbull warned of the long-term costs of the policy in a speech to parliament after he was deposed as leader because of his support for an emissions trading scheme, when he said Direct Action style schemes were \u201ca recipe for fiscal recklessness on a grand scale\u201d.The carbon price repeal bills were voted down in the Senate last week after a last-minute change to a Palmer United party amendment was ruled to be unconstitutional by the clerk of the Senate. The government had been prepared to accept the amendment but then changed it again over the weekend after business groups raised major concerns. Business groups welcomed the repeal as a \u201cfirst step\u201d towards achieving an effective emissions reduction policy.The Business Council of Australia, the Minerals Council of Australia and the Australian Industry Group called on the government to \u201cdevelop and implement a cost-effective emissions reduction fund\u201d as \u201cpart of a toolkit of measures to reduce emissions\u201d.But the Climate Institute thinktank said that \u201cby repealing laws that price and limit carbon pollution, Australia today became the world\u2019s first country to dismantle a functioning and effective carbon market, taking a monumentally reckless backward leap even as other major countries are stepping up climate action\u201d.And the Australian Conservation Foundation said: \u201cThis backwards step makes Australia an international embarrassment.\u201dDescribing it as a \u201ctragic day\u201d, Greens leader senator Christine Milne said after the vote that \u201cthe big polluters should pay for the destruction they are causing to the planet\u201d. She accused the Coalition of \u201cwanting to cost-shift the burden of climate change onto the community and away from the people who are causing it\u201d.Both Labor and the Greens say they remain committed to carbon pricing as the best way to reduce emissions.Speaking after the vote, agriculture minister Barnaby Joyce said the tax had imposed high costs on families, and questioned whether it was needed, saying \u201clook at the weather today, look at the way you are dressed, no one thinks it is too hot\u201d.\u201cI believe there is climate change happening, I just don\u2019t believe we are going to change it with a broad-based consumption tax.\u201d\u201cI am glad the carbon tax has been axed \u2026 we have Direct Action and there are programs that hopefully can assist \u2026 but the idea that somehow we inflict on every household the fact that we would attack their power prices to the Australian taxation offices. They took it to the Australian people and the Australian people rejected it,\u201d Joyce said.", "tags": ["Carbon tax", "Australian politics", "Australia news", "Coalition", "Clive Palmer", "Environment", "Tony Abbott", "Australian Greens", "Penny Wong", "Labor party", "Christine Milne", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Climate change", "Gas", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Asia Pacific", "Barnaby Joyce", "Liberal party"], "title": "Australia kills off carbon tax"},{"date": "2014-09-23T13:00:15Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It\u2019s 6am on a winter\u2019s morning: mist is rising off the lake, and the kookaburras laugh in a nearby gum, challenging the laggards to get up and enjoy yet another sunny day in the low-to-mid-20s. That\u2019s 20C, not your Pommy 20 Fahrenheit \u2013 it never gets that cold here.We turn over in bed. No need for us oldies to get up just yet, though our friendly juvenile whip-bird has now joined the morning chorus, lulling us back to sleep.Boreen Point is 20km from civilisation, by road or by river, but many more from the cares of the everyday world. Ready to retire from the city life 10 years ago, we were fortunate in finding the right place at the right price at the right time. We only needed a six-month babysitting sojourn with our grandchildren in Kirriemuir, Scotland, to convince us that we could easily adapt to life in a small community: in this case, one that houses less than 200 people, after a lifetime spent, in my case, living and working in cities from 1 to 8 million, here in Australia and in Britain.Our little community sometimes swells, especially at holiday times and when there is a sailing regatta, or our international arts festival The Floating Land is happening, to almost 1,000: every spare bed in the town is occupied. Many of us are retired, but a growing number of young families have come here to share the tranquillity and embrace our natural environment. We respect our neighbours\u2019 privacy, while knowing that help will be at hand when it is needed.We\u2019re high on a hill, a mere 6km from the ocean, with the sound of the breaking waves soothing us to sleep at night. Lake Cootharaba on the pristine Noosa river separates us from the beach to the east, while to the north, west and south, national parks and state forests surround us. We have a village store and a convivial hotel, the Apollonian, just around the corner. If we don\u2019t feel like driving, a $1 flexi-taxi service will take us to the shops and services 20km away.What more could anybody ask for?Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Queensland"], "title": "Letter from Australia: Point to point"},{"date": "2014-07-01T03:48:51Z", "country": "australia", "content": " Guardian Australia has appointed three-time Walkley Award winner Gay Alcorn as its Melbourne editor. The agreement will see Alcorn take on the position from August 1 with responsibility for covering key Melbourne and Victorian issues, and large national stories.Alcorn will be supported by Oliver Milman in the Guardian Australia\u2019s new Melbourne office, and another new recruit, Melissa Davey. \u201cI am delighted to appoint Gay Alcorn as Guardian Australia\u2019s Melbourne editor, a role she will assume from August 1. As a three-time Walkley Award Winner, Gay has had an outstanding career as both a writer and an editor. She's an amazing journalist and will bring huge extra heft to our reporting, not just in Melbourne and Victoria, but also nationally.Gay will join Oliver Milman in our new Melbourne office, and new recruit, Melissa Davey, a talented young reporter with a wealth of medical reporting as well as general news reporting under her belt,\" said Emily Wilson, editor of Guardian Australia.Alcorn has been deputy editor of The Age and was editor of The Sunday Age for four years until the end of 2012, when she returned to writing. Last year, Alcorn launched and edited The Conversation\u2019s Election FactCheck for the federal election. Alcon was also Fairfax's Washington correspondent during the 2000 Bush-Gore presidential election and the September 11 terrorist attacks. Davey moved to Sydney in 2007 after completing a double degree in journalism and international relations at Curtin University in Perth. She previously worked at Fairfax for the Sydney Morning Herald in news and medical reporting roles and has written for a number of websites and publications including Daily Life, Australian Doctor and Crikey.Guardian Australia has already made several high profile appointments in 2014 including Walkley award-winning cartoonist Andrew Marlton (First Dog On The Moon) in April and Dave Earley, The Courier Mail\u2019s engagement editor, who will join Guardian Australia as a deputy audience development editor.The news comes off the back of Guardian Australia announcing earlier this year it will open a third Australian office located in Melbourne to support the rapid expansion of its Australian operations; and the creation of 12 new roles in Sydney and Melbourne since the beginning of the year. With a global digital audience of 100m monthly unique browsers, the Guardian is the third largest English language newspaper website in the world. Guardian Australia offers Australian audiences high-quality, independent and innovative local journalism, publishing some of the best writers in Australia alongside the best of the Guardian's global journalism.Readers can access Guardian Australia content 24 hours a day via theguardian.com, both on desktop and mobile, follow @GuardianAus on Twitter, like the Guardian Australia Facebook page, subscribe to the daily email update and can also download the Guardian App for Android and the Guardian App for iOS which both have Australian edition options.Guardian News & Media (GNM) publishes theguardian.com, the third largest English-speaking newspaper website in the world (comScore, January 2013). Since launching its US and Australia digital editions in 2011 and 2013 respectively, traffic from outside of the UK now represents over two-thirds of the Guardian's total digital audience.In the UK, GNM publishes the Guardian newspaper six days a week and the world's oldest Sunday newspaper, The Observer.The newspapers were named the most trustworthy, accurate and reliable newspapers in the UK in 2013.The Guardian, which was first published in 1821, is most recently renowned for its agenda-setting NSA and GCHQ revelations following disclosures by whistleblower Edward Snowden, its globally acclaimed investigation into phone hacking and the launch of its groundbreaking digital-first strategy in 2011 and its trailblazing partnership with WikiLeaks in 2010. . The ultimate owner of the Guardian is The Scott Trust, which was originally created as a trust in 1936 to safeguard the title's journalistic freedom. In 2008 it was replaced by a limited company with the same core purpose of the original trust: to secure the financial and editorial independence of the Guardian in perpetuity, while its subsidiary aims are to champion its principles and to promote freedom of the press in the UK and elsewhere. Other than to cover expense, The Scott Trust takes no dividend from the group's businesses, whose profits are instead reinvested to sustain journalism that is free from commercial or political interference.Guardian Australia Team at Text100: GuardianAustralia@text100.com or Tel: 02 9956 573", "tags": ["GNM press office", "Press releases 2014", "Guardian Australia press office", "Press releases"], "title": "Guardian Australia appoints Melbourne Editor"},{"date": "2014-08-17T04:19:26Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia will reserve more than 2,000 places in its refugee program for Syrians, at the same time as it tries to return Syrians held in offshore detention to the country the immigration minister describes as \u201cin the midst of a terrible conflict\u201d.Syrian refugees will have 2,200 places set aside within the Special Humanitarian Program (SHP), which takes in refugees who can prove they already have a connection to Australia.Scott Morrison also announced 2,200 places in the program would be set aside for Iraqis. The places are part of the government\u2019s formal refugee intake of 13,750, which the Coalition reduced from 20,000 when it came to office last year.Australia is holding Iraqis and Syrians who tried to reach Australia by boat in offshore detention centres and tried to send Syrians back to the country, despite claims by at least one that he faced certain death if returned.Morrison said the commitment to set aside the places highlighted \u201cthe humanitarian dividend from the government\u2019s successful border protection policies\u201d.\u201cThis government has made it very clear that priority in the humanitarian program should be for those waiting overseas and entering Australia under an orderly process,\u201d he said in a statement released on Sunday.The government also promised to take in at least 4,500 Syrian refugees over the next three years.\u201cWith the continued violence in Iraq and Syria, the Australian government is dedicated to ensuring its humanitarian programme reaches those who need it most,\u201d Morrison said.Syrians on Manus Island have been told their details would be passed to the Syrian consulate if they returned and five Syrian men were split up in the Manus Island detention centre \u201cto keep them quiet\u201d earlier this year as the government tried to return them.The SHP targets people with family already in Australia or who can prove strong links and support within the community. Morrison said of the 2,200 Syrian refugees who would come to Australia, some would be already \u201cliving in desperate conditions in countries such as Lebanon\u201d.Lebanon has more than 1.1 million registered Syrian refugees, mostly living in camps.The SHP, which the government has set at about 4,000 places, receives more than 40,000 applications each year.Morrison said the SHP had been \u201cdecimated\u201d under Labor, which reduced it to 500 spots within its 20,000 refugee intake program.\u201cIt was extremely disappointing that up to 4,000 applicants waiting in the queue missed out on places in this program, and that their places were being taken up by those who had arrived illegally by boat,\u201d he said.\u201cThe government\u2019s policies under Operation Sovereign Borders have not only saved lives at sea, but also allowed more places to be returned to our humanitarian program for the world\u2019s most desperate and vulnerable people.\u201dMorrison\u2019s statement said the government had granted 1,050 visas for women at risk, predominantly from Afghanistan, as well as 1,800 Burmese refugees and 2,754 Afghans. All the places are within the humanitarian program, not in addition to the 13,750 places allocated to it.Burmese refugees have been allocated 2,000 places in the coming year. \u201cEveryone who is accepted under the formal refugee and humanitarian program are subject to the appropriate checks. It is not simply a process of walking straight out of a camp and onto a plane. Issues, such as identity, health and security are all subject to assessment,\u201d Morrison said.\u201cThe program also endeavours to focus on those who have a network of support that can assist their resettlement, such as local church communities who have strong ethnic and cultural connections. This has proved particularly helpful for those being resettled from the Middle East and Burma.\u201d", "tags": ["Australian immigration and asylum", "Australia news", "Syria", "Australian politics", "Scott Morrison", "Refugees", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Australia reserves 2,200 places for Syrian refugees"},{"date": "2014-07-05T06:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Albany is a chronically underrated city. It was the first European settlement in Western Australia and should have been the capital, but was annexed by the British in 1791. It's physically lovely, with the best natural harbour in Australia outside Sydney and lots of remnants of Victorian architecture. It was a very conservative town back in the day, but it has changed. There's a growing eco-tourism industry and lots of younger people are choosing to move there.My family moved to Albany from Perth when I was 12. We were only there for three years but it had a profound effect on me as a person and, later, as a writer. I think it's something to do with its wildness. For a young person who felt claustrophobic being surrounded by strangers, it was reassuring to know that within minutes I could be out in the bush or on a beach with no other footprints in the sand.Some locals say the top of Mount Clarence is the essence of the area. It's the site of the Anzac Desert Mounted Corp war memorial and the view is incredible \u2013 you can see all the islands and bays stretching out right around you. But for me the heart of the city is the Princess Royal Harbour, where all the whalers and tuna fisherman used to be. These days a lot of the old harpooners have become environmentalists. You'll meet them sometimes working as tour guides at Whale World, a museum in the former whaling station.Whale-watching is something every visitor should do. Boat trips go from the harbour but you can see them by just standing on Cheynes Beach, 42 miles east of Albany, or from the Shelley Beach Lookout on West Cape Howe to the west of town. The whaling station closed down in 1978 and the last few times I've been back I have seen more whales in a week than I did in the three years I lived here. The best time to see them is in winter (June \u2013 August), when they come up from the Antarctic and migrate to the tropics.The beaches are one of the most beautiful things about Albany. The sand is so fine that if you scuff your feet along at night, you can see sparks shoot off your shoes. Ocean Beach near the town of Denmark, is best for surfing and only a half-hour drive from the city. For swimming, I'd recommend Middleton Beach. Whales come so close to the shore that a few years ago someone was fined for swimming up and climbing on to the back of one.The Rocks on Grey Street West is a great place to stay as a treat. It's a really flash B&B in a grand Victorian building that was the old governor's residence overlooking the harbour. The owners really know how to look after people. The White Star Hotel on Stirling Terrace used to be a \"bloodhouse\" \u2013 a dodgy pub with a violent reputation \u2013 but now it's a friendly place where they brew their own, very serviceable beers. When I meet up with friends we might go for a drink there, then see a show at the Albany Entertainment Centre before ending up at The Venice (179 York Street). It's a lively but homely Italian and is the best place to eat local seafood \u2013 from blue swimmer crabs to queen snapper. I'd go for the spaghetti and mussels.If I could change one thing it would be the weather. The Minang Noongar Aboriginal people call Albany Kinjarling, meaning the place of rain. It's a good place to go if you want to visit Australia but don't fancy being brutalised by the heat.A tip: be wary when sitting on blowholes. As kids we loved to go to Torndirrup national park, a few miles south of Albany, where there are granite rocks with crevices that reach down to the sea below. When the waves come in, water comes spurting out of the top of them, and as it's a raging ocean you never know how strong the force is going to be. If you sit on one, be prepared to end up with your clothes flapping and your hair straight up in the air.Tim Winton's latest novel, Eyrie, is out now (Picador, \u00a316.99). To order a copy from the Guardian Bookshop for \u00a313.49, including UK p&p, call 0330 333 6846 or visit guardianbookshop.co.uk", "tags": ["Australia holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Travel", "Perth holidays", "Western Australia holidays", "Tim Winton"], "title": "Tim Winton on Albany, Western Australia"},{"date": "2014-09-25T05:41:32Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Daily Mail Australia and News Corp have reached a confidential legal settlement three months after Rupert Murdoch\u2019s Australian arm accused it of plagiarism.A spokesman for Mail Online\u2019s publisher, Martin Clarke, confirmed that an agreement had been reached but declined to give details.However, Guardian Australia understands no money changed hands.A News Corp Australia spokesman said: \u201cWe have settled our dispute with the Mail Online. It was agreed to keep the terms of the settlement confidential. We do note there has been a change in the practices of the Mail Online since we made our complaint. We are keeping a vigilant eye for any future breaches of copyright.\u201dShortly after Britain\u2019s Mail Online officially rebranded as Daily Mail Australia, in a joint venture with Nine\u2019s digital arm Mi9, News Corp launched a campaign against its commercial competitor.News Corp sent a legal letter asking the company to stop using its content or face a lawsuit.\u201cWe have taken this action because we believe the Daily Mail Australia is breaching our copyright by lifting substantial slabs of original content from a large number of articles from our mastheads,\u201d a News Corp spokesman said in June.Daily Mail returned fire, alleging News Corp had \u201clifted\u201d content from its publications without proper attribution or links.In the latest Nielsen Online news rankings, Daily Mail Australia moved up to fifth spot, ahead of all the News Corp mastheads except news.com.au.Guardian Australia is seventh.In an interview with the Financial Times, Clarke said the matter had been resolved \u201cvery much to my satisfaction\u201d. ", "tags": ["News Corporation", "Mail Online", "Plagiarism", "Media", "Media business", "Digital media", "Internet"], "title": "Daily Mail Australia and News Corp settle over plagiarism claim"},{"date": "2014-09-29T06:34:26Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australians who have spent sizeable amounts of time in China learn to distrust western representations of our adopted motherland. We inherit the same defensiveness seen in every high-level political exchange, where some great western power shakes their finger like a nagging teacher and Chinese leaders \u2013 feeling much aggrieved \u2013 stamp their feet in a huff.\u201cThis play is all about China \u2013 right up your alley!\u201d a friend said, just before Sydney Theatre Company\u2019s Kryptonite began. Internally, I was in brace mode.Over the next 15 minutes I slowly, cautiously, began to relax into the hands of writer Sue Smith, who has clearly been flexing her research chops. We are introduced to a pair of university classmates, Dylan (Tim Walter) and Lian (Ursula Mills), who will meet at various points over the next 25 years, each meeting sending them in new trajectories, like pinballs colliding.The Australian Dylan and Chinese Lian embody for each another (with mutual exoticisation) the good, bad and ugly of their respective nations. Dylan with his \u201ccurling, gold\u201d leg hair has a looseness that\u2019s seductive to Lian. But when his political demonstrations reveal more larrikinism than conviction, he comes off as flippantly narcissistic. \u201cI just wanted to get naked and put a rocket under this complacent joint,\u201d he tells Lian.She is serious, but not without humour; a glowing optimist with a purity that is a product of inexperience, not naivety. She finds shame in her lowly situation, but it is simply the flipside of her ambition and work ethic. \u201cI have pride, Dylan. You know this word? Pride,\u201d she tells him heatedly. He is captivated \u2013 and later horrified \u2013 by her steeliness versus the soft nostalgia with which she recalls an idyllic Chinese childhood.While this kind of cross-cultural exchange is nothing exceptional, from my own experience, the gap between local and foreigner does seem to be wider in China. Foreigners are perceived, at least initially, as draped with the colours of their national flag, and with varying degrees of frustration and humour the words \u201cyou don\u2019t understand\u201d inevitably show up regularly in conversation. It is a sentence uttered throughout the play.Of course, understanding that big, energetic, messy thing called China is a mammoth task. In her latest book, Linda Jaivin \u2013 one of many writers and academics that Smith consulted in writing her play \u2013 quotes a famous Taiwan writer called Li Ao: \u201cChina\u2019s a massive thing, still hidden in the mists. The Chinese don\u2019t understand China; all they know are \u2018Chinese cliches\u2019. Foreigners don\u2019t understand China; all they know is \u2018Chinese chop suey\u2019.\u201dSmith does much better than \u201cchop suey\u201d, despite having only been to China once, for a few weeks, more than 30 years ago. In her cosy Petersham home, the playwright credits her Chinese sister-in-law. Many of their long conversations fed into this work and it shows: the play is stuffed with contemporary Chinese references, from Weibo, to land dispossessions, \u201cleftover women\u201d and internet censorship.There is a spinning, joyful nausea about the play too, which required big risks on Smith\u2019s part. In explaining the challenges of capturing an alien culture, she says: \u201cI\u2019m actually trying to walk this fine line of how do we feel about each other? Can we ever really trust one another? Can we ever real understand each other? Of course there\u2019s going to be dangers in that territory. So, just bite the bullet and hope for the best really.\u201dThe play is uneven in spots, as it attempts to juggle political intrigue, with a love story and rich historical details. But it is also a bold work that tackles a critical issue in contemporary Australia: our relationship with a foreign nation, and how we react to large cultural differences. In looking at Australia\u2019s foreign policy, Smith identifies the country\u2019s heavy-handed suspicion of non-democractic, non-western countries.\u201cClive Palmer\u2019s recent spray is a reminder of just how profound the distrust is under the surface in this country. The politicians, when they\u2019re sensible, say all the right things: \u2018we respect China and China\u2019s our best friend, blah blah blah\u2019. In reality the whole geopolitical sphere is nervous about the rise of China. \u201cIs it [because] China is not a democracy or is it the old yellow peril fear? What is it? I don\u2019t know, and I wanted to just shine a light on it.\u201d\u2022 Kryptonite is presented by the Sydney Theatre Company until 18 October, then by the State Theatre Company of South Australia from 22 October to 9 November.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "China", "Australia news"], "title": "Kryptonite: China, Australia and the 'you don't understand' conversation"},{"date": "2014-08-26T02:13:36Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Last April Jeremy Geia posted his driver\u2019s licence to the chief minister of the Australian Capital Territory, where he was then living, with a polite note explaining why he no longer needed it.Then he returned his passport and Medicare card to the federal government.Geia sent them back because he had decided to \u201cleave Australia\u201d while remaining in this continent, by reverting to his tribal name and adhering primarily to the law of his people, the Yidindji of north Queensland.While severing all official contact and contracts with Australian institutions, he made a few more momentous life decisions too, relinquishing a good salary by quitting his job as chief political correspondent in the Canberra press gallery for National Indigenous Television, giving away most of his things, and abandoning his bank accounts and 20 years\u2019 superannuation.We are talking in Cairns over breakfast (my shout; he carries barely enough change to park his borrowed car) about what inspired him to abandon what he calls the \u201cAustralian citizen ship\u201d.Murrumu Walubara Yidindji, as he is now, is highly adept with words \u2013 consistent with the reputation he honed in Canberra and elsewhere (among other stories he broke, Murrumu was the first western reporter to interview Julian Assange in London\u2019s Ecuadorian embassy) as a highly respected journalist. He footnotes his English aphorism with Latin interpretation and constantly riffs \u2013 even kind of raps \u2013 off the entendre of words he so precisely selects.He\u2019s a warm, enigmatic big bear of a bloke with whom conversation oscillates seamlessly from the intensely political (sovereignty and the sites where his people were massacred) to prosaic (football, kids, mutual friends, weather).To begin to understand Murrumu it\u2019s perhaps best to start here.\u201cSuperficies solo credit \u2013 what is attached to the land belongs to the land,\u201d he says.\u201cQui prior est tempore potior est jure \u2013 first in time is best in law.\u201dMurrumu\u2019s message could not be clearer: the Yidindji have been on their land \u2013 which incorporates all of Cairns, extends from the Russell river in the south to the Mowbray in the north, and reaches from beyond the Malbon Thompson range and out into the Coral Sea past the Franklin Islands \u2013 since the Dreaming began. Any additions to that land, such as buildings and roads, piers and jetties, he insists, belong to the country itself and the Yidindji.\u201cThe Australian government sees us as the original inhabitants and [as] the original peoples, and that says to me that our law is strongest in law and their law is Johnny Come Lately,\u201d he says.Having rescinded and revoked any allegiance to the Commonwealth of Australia, he says, \u201c1788 is fast becoming 1984\u201d.\u201cThe rapid dominance resulting from British contact has fast turned many tribal people into state citizens who live lives of voluntary servitude far removed from their tribal duties and laws.\u201dWhile it seems that not all practical detail of abandoning the citizen ship has yet been finessed, Murrumu has embarked on a campaign \u2013 beginning this week in Canberra where he\u2019ll meet foreign diplomats and speak at the Australian National University \u2013 to cultivate international awareness about the supremacy of Yidindji law and his departure from Australia.\u201cPeople that know me and know what I\u2019m doing are more than happy to support me because they know that what I\u2019m doing is the truth,\u201d he says. \u201cThe truth is that we were here before the British. The truth is that we hold sovereignty and dominion over these lands. The truth is that there\u2019ve been genocide and multiple crimes against humanity and massacres committed on this land that haven\u2019t been brought to ... justice.\u201cWe\u2019ve sent notices to the world letting them know that Yidindji tribal authority is here and [about] my wish to make an offer to negotiate and ... to settle with the ones who are benefiting from the unjust enrichments from using my ancestral lands and my child\u2019s property.\u201dHe has written to Tony Abbott, whom he knows personally. But so far he\u2019s only received an impersonal response from the prime minister\u2019s department.Murrumu says while he had been contemplating a return to tribal law for some time, the political instability, treachery, deceit and self-indulgence surrounding the Labor leadership, especially in mid-2013 when Kevin Rudd reassumed the prime ministership, helped crystallise his decision.\u201cEveryone in Parliament House was talking about it and at that stage I thought, \u2018This is childlike \u2013 how can people, including my people, improve their lives when this type of caper is going on?\u2019 \u201cWhile that circus was happening a lot of people who had put their faith in voting and in the political process had been disrespected. That, for me, was the tipping point and I made a decision to say, \u2018You know what? This is a system that\u2019s not for me. That\u2019s when I decided to jump off the citizen ship, leave Australia.\u201dDivesting personal possessions is liberating, says Murrumu, who, I\u2019m guessing, might be in his late 30s or early 40s.I do ask his age, and he says: \u201cI have been here since the beginning of time. My body has information that is tens of thousands of years old.\u201dFair enough.Today he owns seven T-shirts and one pair of trousers. Nothing else. No longer opening mail is a blessing, he says. Notably, for a bloke who\u2019s off the grid, he\u2019s still on the net and his emails arrive under his tribal moniker.He lives with friends including a Yidindji elder, Gudju Gudju, on the outskirts of Cairns where the fecund, black earth, with its countless worry lines of rivulets and streams, begins to rise gently into the dense, lush rainforest of the ancient range.\u201cAnd I do still love my English football \u2013 Liverpool. And English breakfast tea,\u201d he volunteers.Then he laughs because ... well, yes, the irony, which is pretty acute, is not lost on him. But then again, he\u2019s not declaring war on Britain and Australia, \u201cjust peacefully going back to my original law\u201d. While plenty may \u2013 and will \u2013 disagree, I guess Murrumu is still entitled to support whichever English Premier League team he likes and imbibe whatever cha, so long as it\u2019s on someone else\u2019s flat screen and there are mates willing to spot him a teabag or two.As we drive to the place where he sleeps (\u201cI live in here,\u201d he insists, tapping his chest, in a way that prompts you to think about your own life) a police car passes on the other side of the highway.\u201cPolicy enforcement officers,\u201d Murrumu says, shaking his head.Officers who would doubtless be confused should they pull Murrumu over and demand to see his licence.\u201cYeah, I don\u2019t hold a licence because it had the incorrect name on it [Jeremy Geia] and furthermore I did not want to hold a licence because the supreme creator here is Gayaburra Goopi and he gave the tribal people the law to uphold and this gives us the supreme authority on the land,\u201d he says.He explains that he and a few others who are following his example carry only a document, created by him, that explains their tribal identity. Yidindji number plates and perhaps even currency are planned. In the meantime Murrumu is growing food and bartering, sometimes with his own impressive paintings, demand for which is growing.\u201cWho created the licences ... and all these other things that Australian citizens use? It\u2019s the crown or the commonwealth. So they belong to them. And you know, give back to Caesar what belongs to Rome ... this is your stuff, so take it back.\u201dAbout here I start to wonder if Murrumu is having just a little bit of a lend. He says that if stopped by the Australian authorities he would identify himself as a tribal man who lives outside Australia and he expects that his status would be respected.And I also wonder if he\u2019s having me on when he acknowledges the advantages of living in Australia, such as Medicare and public hospitals and schools, but reiterates \u201cwhat is attached to the land belongs to the land\u201d and \u201cif this is tribal land then surely all these buildings belong to the tribe\u201d, which leads inevitably to this exchange:\u201cOK, so your kid gets sick and needs to go to hospital and he needs to go to school, how do you deal with that practicality?\u201dMurrumu: \u201cWell, we just take them to school, and they get an education.\u201d\u201cBut that is an education provided by the state.\u201dMurrumu: \u201cYeah, but that school\u2019s on my land.\u201d\u201cThe same with the hospital, right?\u201d\u201cThat\u2019s exactly right.\u201dBut by the time we get to Gudju Gudju\u2019s house, Murrumu has mentioned perhaps half a dozen times the massacre of various tribal people, his own included, by soldiers, settlers and police that began with the arrival of the first citizen ship from England in 1788.Yes, he is provoking an important conversation by just about any verbal means possible. But in the end I am left in no doubt that he is entirely serious and that his resolve is sure. He\u2019s not having a lend.I meet Gudju Gudju, who takes me across the road to a grassy lot that abuts Skeleton creek. We stand beneath the impressive canopy of a monolithic raintree, imported from the Americas long after the British arrived, and Gudju Gudju rubs his scent on to me so the creek\u2019s spirits won\u2019t harm me.The \u201cold people\u201d, as Gudju Gudju calls them, are here now \u2013 right there, he says, just over my shoulder, along the creek bank, where their heads were cut off and placed on stakes. He incants in Yidindji, rubs his hands under his armpits and wipes them softly on my face and torso.Queensland was, perhaps, the stage for the most excessive frontier violence against the continent\u2019s Indigenous people. A growing body of evidence suggests upwards of 50,000 people died at the hands of settlers, soldiers and native police in colonial Queensland alone.Skeleton creek is the site of one such massacre in the 1880s. That is corroborated by both Yidindji oral history, as conveyed in Murrumu\u2019s 2010 painting Skeleton Creek, and colonial records. The locals were massacred and decapitated by settlers and the native police, and their heads put on stakes at regular intervals along the creek to stop the local clans continually crossing the waterway to attack pastoralists.After Canberra, Murrumu plans to take his message overseas. I\u2019m anxious on his behalf; I ask how he intends to travel abroad without an Australian passport.\u201cWell, I don\u2019t need a passport,\u201d he says. \u201cPassports are for citizens and I\u2019m not a citizen. I am a tribal man and there are ways that I can\u2019t disclose to you that I can travel under protection and with what people would say is diplomatic immunity.\u201dAnd so we can probably add Customs to the list of commonwealth of institutions \u2013 I\u2019m guessing behind Asio, the Queensland and federal police \u2013 that are likely to have a heightened awareness of Murrumu from now on.Murrumu seems to expect this but insists he\u2019s not afraid. \u201cI don\u2019t fear for my life because what I\u2019m doing is the truth. But I don\u2019t want to be intercepted or interfered with and the Australians must respect that.\u201cAnd if their police or their courts or their magistrates touch me or interfere with me then it will be an act of slavery and crimes against the tribe.\u201dWe may have heard the last of Jeremy Geia but we have not heard the last, I suspect, of Murrumu Walubara Yidindji.", "tags": ["Indigenous Australians", "Australia news", "Queensland"], "title": "The man who renounced Australia"},{"date": "2014-07-17T01:51:06Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia\u2019s carbon price has been repealed, leaving the nation with no legislated policy to achieve even the minimum 5% greenhouse emissions reduction target it has inscribed in international agreements.After eight years of bitter political debate, during which climate policy dominated three election campaigns and contributed to the demise of two prime ministers, after last week\u2019s Senate drama in which the repeal was again defeated and this week\u2019s lengthy last gasp debate, the Senate has now finally voted to make good Tony Abbott\u2019s \u201cpledge in blood\u201d to \u201caxe the tax\u201d.The government was backed by seven of the new crossbench senators, including the three Palmer United party senators, Liberal Democrat senator David Leyonhjelm, Family First senator Bob Day, Motoring Enthusiast senator Ricky Muir, DLP senator John Madigan. Independent senator Nick Xenophon was unwell.Only the Australian Labor party and the Greens voted against repealing the carbon pricing scheme they introduced, which came into effect two years ago.Leader of the government in the Senate and former climate change minister Penny Wong said repealing the bills meant \u201cthis nation will have walked away from a credible and efficient response to climate change\u201d.Wong said the prime minister Tony Abbott had \u201cstaked his political career \u2026 on fearmongering and scaremongering and that is what this debate has been about for years\u201d.\u201cI think future generations will look back on these bills and they will be appalled \u2026 at the short-sighted, opportunistic selfish politics of those opposite and Mr Abbott will go down as one of the most short-sighted, selfish and small people ever to occupy the office of prime minister.\u201dGovernment backbencher Ian Macdonald accused opposition parties of being hypocrites for refusing to accept the will of the voters and said that while he had \u201can open mind\u201d, he would like to point out that Brisbane had recently had its coldest day in 113 years.Greens leader Christine Milne said it was \u201ca vote for failure\u201d amid interjections from government backbenchers that she should \u201cget over it\u201d because the parliament was \u201crespecting the will of the Australian people\u201d.The bills passed 39:32. There was none of the jubilation that accompanied their passage in the lower house, but the leader of the government in the Senate, Eric Abetz, shook hands with backbench senator Cory Bernardi, who led the revolt against Malcolm Turnbull when, as leader of the opposition, he backed Labor\u2019s carbon pricing scheme.The tax was $25.40 a tonne and was scheduled to move to the floating and lower international price in 12 months.The repeal will cost the budget around $7bn over the next four years as around 350 businesses, mainly electricity generators and big manufacturers, no longer have to pay the tax.The government argues the carbon pricing scheme has been ineffective, but national emissions have actually fallen by 0.8% in the first calendar year of its operation, the largest fall in 24 years of records. Since the tax began, emissions from the east coast electricity market have fallen 11%, but emissions from other sources \u2013 especially coal and gas mining have increased.The government also says households will be better off by an average $550 \u2013 the amount treasury estimated prices would rise when the tax was introduced \u2013 but supermarkets and airlines are now saying consumers should not expect price reductions.The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission\u2019s special powers are to monitor and enforce only electricity and gas price reductions. Electricity bills will rise, but by an estimated 9% less than they otherwise would. Gas bills will rise by an estimated 7% less than they would have with the tax still in place.The Abbott government says it will now achieve the target of a 5% reduction in Australian emissions compared with 2000 levels by 2020 with its Direct Action policy, which will offer $2.5bn in competitive grants over the next four years to companies and organisations voluntarily reducing emissions. The budget actually allocated only $1.14bn over the four-year forward estimates for the scheme. The government said this is because they will pay on delivery of the abatement. The policy is voluntary and puts no overall cap on emissions.The government itself has not modelled Direct Action (Abbott said he would prefer to \u201chave a crack\u201d), but two other modelling exercises found even the 5% cut would cost far more than $2.5bn, and the independent climate change authority \u2013 which the government is seeking to abolish \u2013 has said Australia\u2019s \u201cfair share\u201d of international emissions reductions has now increased to between 15% and 19% by 2020.The government says it is sure Direct Action will meet the 5% target, but Abbott has said he will not allocate any more money even if it does not, and has not said how he would make deeper reductions in Australia\u2019s emissions which are likely to be required after the United Nations meeting to try to forge a new post-2020 climate agreement in Paris next year.Malcolm Turnbull warned of the long-term costs of the policy in a speech to parliament after he was deposed as leader because of his support for an emissions trading scheme, when he said Direct Action style schemes were \u201ca recipe for fiscal recklessness on a grand scale\u201d.The carbon price repeal bills were voted down in the Senate last week after a last-minute change to a Palmer United party amendment was ruled to be unconstitutional by the clerk of the Senate. The government had been prepared to accept the amendment but then changed it again over the weekend after business groups raised major concerns. Business groups welcomed the repeal as a \u201cfirst step\u201d towards achieving an effective emissions reduction policy.The Business Council of Australia, the Minerals Council of Australia and the Australian Industry Group called on the government to \u201cdevelop and implement a cost-effective emissions reduction fund\u201d as \u201cpart of a toolkit of measures to reduce emissions\u201d.But the Climate Institute thinktank said that \u201cby repealing laws that price and limit carbon pollution, Australia today became the world\u2019s first country to dismantle a functioning and effective carbon market, taking a monumentally reckless backward leap even as other major countries are stepping up climate action\u201d.And the Australian Conservation Foundation said: \u201cThis backwards step makes Australia an international embarrassment.\u201dDescribing it as a \u201ctragic day\u201d, Greens leader senator Christine Milne said after the vote that \u201cthe big polluters should pay for the destruction they are causing to the planet\u201d. She accused the Coalition of \u201cwanting to cost-shift the burden of climate change onto the community and away from the people who are causing it\u201d.Both Labor and the Greens say they remain committed to carbon pricing as the best way to reduce emissions.Speaking after the vote, agriculture minister Barnaby Joyce said the tax had imposed high costs on families, and questioned whether it was needed, saying \u201clook at the weather today, look at the way you are dressed, no one thinks it is too hot\u201d.\u201cI believe there is climate change happening, I just don\u2019t believe we are going to change it with a broad-based consumption tax.\u201d\u201cI am glad the carbon tax has been axed \u2026 we have Direct Action and there are programs that hopefully can assist \u2026 but the idea that somehow we inflict on every household the fact that we would attack their power prices to the Australian taxation offices. They took it to the Australian people and the Australian people rejected it,\u201d Joyce said.", "tags": ["Carbon tax", "Australian politics", "Australia news", "Coalition", "Clive Palmer", "Environment", "Tony Abbott", "Australian Greens", "Penny Wong", "Labor party", "Christine Milne", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Climate change", "Gas", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Asia Pacific", "Barnaby Joyce", "Liberal party"], "title": "Australia kills off carbon tax"},{"date": "2014-09-23T13:00:15Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It\u2019s 6am on a winter\u2019s morning: mist is rising off the lake, and the kookaburras laugh in a nearby gum, challenging the laggards to get up and enjoy yet another sunny day in the low-to-mid-20s. That\u2019s 20C, not your Pommy 20 Fahrenheit \u2013 it never gets that cold here.We turn over in bed. No need for us oldies to get up just yet, though our friendly juvenile whip-bird has now joined the morning chorus, lulling us back to sleep.Boreen Point is 20km from civilisation, by road or by river, but many more from the cares of the everyday world. Ready to retire from the city life 10 years ago, we were fortunate in finding the right place at the right price at the right time. We only needed a six-month babysitting sojourn with our grandchildren in Kirriemuir, Scotland, to convince us that we could easily adapt to life in a small community: in this case, one that houses less than 200 people, after a lifetime spent, in my case, living and working in cities from 1 to 8 million, here in Australia and in Britain.Our little community sometimes swells, especially at holiday times and when there is a sailing regatta, or our international arts festival The Floating Land is happening, to almost 1,000: every spare bed in the town is occupied. Many of us are retired, but a growing number of young families have come here to share the tranquillity and embrace our natural environment. We respect our neighbours\u2019 privacy, while knowing that help will be at hand when it is needed.We\u2019re high on a hill, a mere 6km from the ocean, with the sound of the breaking waves soothing us to sleep at night. Lake Cootharaba on the pristine Noosa river separates us from the beach to the east, while to the north, west and south, national parks and state forests surround us. We have a village store and a convivial hotel, the Apollonian, just around the corner. If we don\u2019t feel like driving, a $1 flexi-taxi service will take us to the shops and services 20km away.What more could anybody ask for?Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Queensland"], "title": "Letter from Australia: Point to point"},{"date": "2014-07-01T03:48:51Z", "country": "australia", "content": " Guardian Australia has appointed three-time Walkley Award winner Gay Alcorn as its Melbourne editor. The agreement will see Alcorn take on the position from August 1 with responsibility for covering key Melbourne and Victorian issues, and large national stories.Alcorn will be supported by Oliver Milman in the Guardian Australia\u2019s new Melbourne office, and another new recruit, Melissa Davey. \u201cI am delighted to appoint Gay Alcorn as Guardian Australia\u2019s Melbourne editor, a role she will assume from August 1. As a three-time Walkley Award Winner, Gay has had an outstanding career as both a writer and an editor. She's an amazing journalist and will bring huge extra heft to our reporting, not just in Melbourne and Victoria, but also nationally.Gay will join Oliver Milman in our new Melbourne office, and new recruit, Melissa Davey, a talented young reporter with a wealth of medical reporting as well as general news reporting under her belt,\" said Emily Wilson, editor of Guardian Australia.Alcorn has been deputy editor of The Age and was editor of The Sunday Age for four years until the end of 2012, when she returned to writing. Last year, Alcorn launched and edited The Conversation\u2019s Election FactCheck for the federal election. Alcon was also Fairfax's Washington correspondent during the 2000 Bush-Gore presidential election and the September 11 terrorist attacks. Davey moved to Sydney in 2007 after completing a double degree in journalism and international relations at Curtin University in Perth. She previously worked at Fairfax for the Sydney Morning Herald in news and medical reporting roles and has written for a number of websites and publications including Daily Life, Australian Doctor and Crikey.Guardian Australia has already made several high profile appointments in 2014 including Walkley award-winning cartoonist Andrew Marlton (First Dog On The Moon) in April and Dave Earley, The Courier Mail\u2019s engagement editor, who will join Guardian Australia as a deputy audience development editor.The news comes off the back of Guardian Australia announcing earlier this year it will open a third Australian office located in Melbourne to support the rapid expansion of its Australian operations; and the creation of 12 new roles in Sydney and Melbourne since the beginning of the year. With a global digital audience of 100m monthly unique browsers, the Guardian is the third largest English language newspaper website in the world. Guardian Australia offers Australian audiences high-quality, independent and innovative local journalism, publishing some of the best writers in Australia alongside the best of the Guardian's global journalism.Readers can access Guardian Australia content 24 hours a day via theguardian.com, both on desktop and mobile, follow @GuardianAus on Twitter, like the Guardian Australia Facebook page, subscribe to the daily email update and can also download the Guardian App for Android and the Guardian App for iOS which both have Australian edition options.Guardian News & Media (GNM) publishes theguardian.com, the third largest English-speaking newspaper website in the world (comScore, January 2013). Since launching its US and Australia digital editions in 2011 and 2013 respectively, traffic from outside of the UK now represents over two-thirds of the Guardian's total digital audience.In the UK, GNM publishes the Guardian newspaper six days a week and the world's oldest Sunday newspaper, The Observer.The newspapers were named the most trustworthy, accurate and reliable newspapers in the UK in 2013.The Guardian, which was first published in 1821, is most recently renowned for its agenda-setting NSA and GCHQ revelations following disclosures by whistleblower Edward Snowden, its globally acclaimed investigation into phone hacking and the launch of its groundbreaking digital-first strategy in 2011 and its trailblazing partnership with WikiLeaks in 2010. . The ultimate owner of the Guardian is The Scott Trust, which was originally created as a trust in 1936 to safeguard the title's journalistic freedom. In 2008 it was replaced by a limited company with the same core purpose of the original trust: to secure the financial and editorial independence of the Guardian in perpetuity, while its subsidiary aims are to champion its principles and to promote freedom of the press in the UK and elsewhere. Other than to cover expense, The Scott Trust takes no dividend from the group's businesses, whose profits are instead reinvested to sustain journalism that is free from commercial or political interference.Guardian Australia Team at Text100: GuardianAustralia@text100.com or Tel: 02 9956 573", "tags": ["GNM press office", "Press releases 2014", "Guardian Australia press office", "Press releases"], "title": "Guardian Australia appoints Melbourne Editor"},{"date": "2014-08-17T04:19:26Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia will reserve more than 2,000 places in its refugee program for Syrians, at the same time as it tries to return Syrians held in offshore detention to the country the immigration minister describes as \u201cin the midst of a terrible conflict\u201d.Syrian refugees will have 2,200 places set aside within the Special Humanitarian Program (SHP), which takes in refugees who can prove they already have a connection to Australia.Scott Morrison also announced 2,200 places in the program would be set aside for Iraqis. The places are part of the government\u2019s formal refugee intake of 13,750, which the Coalition reduced from 20,000 when it came to office last year.Australia is holding Iraqis and Syrians who tried to reach Australia by boat in offshore detention centres and tried to send Syrians back to the country, despite claims by at least one that he faced certain death if returned.Morrison said the commitment to set aside the places highlighted \u201cthe humanitarian dividend from the government\u2019s successful border protection policies\u201d.\u201cThis government has made it very clear that priority in the humanitarian program should be for those waiting overseas and entering Australia under an orderly process,\u201d he said in a statement released on Sunday.The government also promised to take in at least 4,500 Syrian refugees over the next three years.\u201cWith the continued violence in Iraq and Syria, the Australian government is dedicated to ensuring its humanitarian programme reaches those who need it most,\u201d Morrison said.Syrians on Manus Island have been told their details would be passed to the Syrian consulate if they returned and five Syrian men were split up in the Manus Island detention centre \u201cto keep them quiet\u201d earlier this year as the government tried to return them.The SHP targets people with family already in Australia or who can prove strong links and support within the community. Morrison said of the 2,200 Syrian refugees who would come to Australia, some would be already \u201cliving in desperate conditions in countries such as Lebanon\u201d.Lebanon has more than 1.1 million registered Syrian refugees, mostly living in camps.The SHP, which the government has set at about 4,000 places, receives more than 40,000 applications each year.Morrison said the SHP had been \u201cdecimated\u201d under Labor, which reduced it to 500 spots within its 20,000 refugee intake program.\u201cIt was extremely disappointing that up to 4,000 applicants waiting in the queue missed out on places in this program, and that their places were being taken up by those who had arrived illegally by boat,\u201d he said.\u201cThe government\u2019s policies under Operation Sovereign Borders have not only saved lives at sea, but also allowed more places to be returned to our humanitarian program for the world\u2019s most desperate and vulnerable people.\u201dMorrison\u2019s statement said the government had granted 1,050 visas for women at risk, predominantly from Afghanistan, as well as 1,800 Burmese refugees and 2,754 Afghans. All the places are within the humanitarian program, not in addition to the 13,750 places allocated to it.Burmese refugees have been allocated 2,000 places in the coming year. \u201cEveryone who is accepted under the formal refugee and humanitarian program are subject to the appropriate checks. It is not simply a process of walking straight out of a camp and onto a plane. Issues, such as identity, health and security are all subject to assessment,\u201d Morrison said.\u201cThe program also endeavours to focus on those who have a network of support that can assist their resettlement, such as local church communities who have strong ethnic and cultural connections. This has proved particularly helpful for those being resettled from the Middle East and Burma.\u201d", "tags": ["Australian immigration and asylum", "Australia news", "Syria", "Australian politics", "Scott Morrison", "Refugees", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Australia reserves 2,200 places for Syrian refugees"},{"date": "2014-07-05T06:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Albany is a chronically underrated city. It was the first European settlement in Western Australia and should have been the capital, but was annexed by the British in 1791. It's physically lovely, with the best natural harbour in Australia outside Sydney and lots of remnants of Victorian architecture. It was a very conservative town back in the day, but it has changed. There's a growing eco-tourism industry and lots of younger people are choosing to move there.My family moved to Albany from Perth when I was 12. We were only there for three years but it had a profound effect on me as a person and, later, as a writer. I think it's something to do with its wildness. For a young person who felt claustrophobic being surrounded by strangers, it was reassuring to know that within minutes I could be out in the bush or on a beach with no other footprints in the sand.Some locals say the top of Mount Clarence is the essence of the area. It's the site of the Anzac Desert Mounted Corp war memorial and the view is incredible \u2013 you can see all the islands and bays stretching out right around you. But for me the heart of the city is the Princess Royal Harbour, where all the whalers and tuna fisherman used to be. These days a lot of the old harpooners have become environmentalists. You'll meet them sometimes working as tour guides at Whale World, a museum in the former whaling station.Whale-watching is something every visitor should do. Boat trips go from the harbour but you can see them by just standing on Cheynes Beach, 42 miles east of Albany, or from the Shelley Beach Lookout on West Cape Howe to the west of town. The whaling station closed down in 1978 and the last few times I've been back I have seen more whales in a week than I did in the three years I lived here. The best time to see them is in winter (June \u2013 August), when they come up from the Antarctic and migrate to the tropics.The beaches are one of the most beautiful things about Albany. The sand is so fine that if you scuff your feet along at night, you can see sparks shoot off your shoes. Ocean Beach near the town of Denmark, is best for surfing and only a half-hour drive from the city. For swimming, I'd recommend Middleton Beach. Whales come so close to the shore that a few years ago someone was fined for swimming up and climbing on to the back of one.The Rocks on Grey Street West is a great place to stay as a treat. It's a really flash B&B in a grand Victorian building that was the old governor's residence overlooking the harbour. The owners really know how to look after people. The White Star Hotel on Stirling Terrace used to be a \"bloodhouse\" \u2013 a dodgy pub with a violent reputation \u2013 but now it's a friendly place where they brew their own, very serviceable beers. When I meet up with friends we might go for a drink there, then see a show at the Albany Entertainment Centre before ending up at The Venice (179 York Street). It's a lively but homely Italian and is the best place to eat local seafood \u2013 from blue swimmer crabs to queen snapper. I'd go for the spaghetti and mussels.If I could change one thing it would be the weather. The Minang Noongar Aboriginal people call Albany Kinjarling, meaning the place of rain. It's a good place to go if you want to visit Australia but don't fancy being brutalised by the heat.A tip: be wary when sitting on blowholes. As kids we loved to go to Torndirrup national park, a few miles south of Albany, where there are granite rocks with crevices that reach down to the sea below. When the waves come in, water comes spurting out of the top of them, and as it's a raging ocean you never know how strong the force is going to be. If you sit on one, be prepared to end up with your clothes flapping and your hair straight up in the air.Tim Winton's latest novel, Eyrie, is out now (Picador, \u00a316.99). To order a copy from the Guardian Bookshop for \u00a313.49, including UK p&p, call 0330 333 6846 or visit guardianbookshop.co.uk", "tags": ["Australia holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Travel", "Perth holidays", "Western Australia holidays", "Tim Winton"], "title": "Tim Winton on Albany, Western Australia"},{"date": "2014-09-25T05:41:32Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Daily Mail Australia and News Corp have reached a confidential legal settlement three months after Rupert Murdoch\u2019s Australian arm accused it of plagiarism.A spokesman for Mail Online\u2019s publisher, Martin Clarke, confirmed that an agreement had been reached but declined to give details.However, Guardian Australia understands no money changed hands.A News Corp Australia spokesman said: \u201cWe have settled our dispute with the Mail Online. It was agreed to keep the terms of the settlement confidential. We do note there has been a change in the practices of the Mail Online since we made our complaint. We are keeping a vigilant eye for any future breaches of copyright.\u201dShortly after Britain\u2019s Mail Online officially rebranded as Daily Mail Australia, in a joint venture with Nine\u2019s digital arm Mi9, News Corp launched a campaign against its commercial competitor.News Corp sent a legal letter asking the company to stop using its content or face a lawsuit.\u201cWe have taken this action because we believe the Daily Mail Australia is breaching our copyright by lifting substantial slabs of original content from a large number of articles from our mastheads,\u201d a News Corp spokesman said in June.Daily Mail returned fire, alleging News Corp had \u201clifted\u201d content from its publications without proper attribution or links.In the latest Nielsen Online news rankings, Daily Mail Australia moved up to fifth spot, ahead of all the News Corp mastheads except news.com.au.Guardian Australia is seventh.In an interview with the Financial Times, Clarke said the matter had been resolved \u201cvery much to my satisfaction\u201d. ", "tags": ["News Corporation", "Mail Online", "Plagiarism", "Media", "Media business", "Digital media", "Internet"], "title": "Daily Mail Australia and News Corp settle over plagiarism claim"},{"date": "2014-09-29T06:34:26Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australians who have spent sizeable amounts of time in China learn to distrust western representations of our adopted motherland. We inherit the same defensiveness seen in every high-level political exchange, where some great western power shakes their finger like a nagging teacher and Chinese leaders \u2013 feeling much aggrieved \u2013 stamp their feet in a huff.\u201cThis play is all about China \u2013 right up your alley!\u201d a friend said, just before Sydney Theatre Company\u2019s Kryptonite began. Internally, I was in brace mode.Over the next 15 minutes I slowly, cautiously, began to relax into the hands of writer Sue Smith, who has clearly been flexing her research chops. We are introduced to a pair of university classmates, Dylan (Tim Walter) and Lian (Ursula Mills), who will meet at various points over the next 25 years, each meeting sending them in new trajectories, like pinballs colliding.The Australian Dylan and Chinese Lian embody for each another (with mutual exoticisation) the good, bad and ugly of their respective nations. Dylan with his \u201ccurling, gold\u201d leg hair has a looseness that\u2019s seductive to Lian. But when his political demonstrations reveal more larrikinism than conviction, he comes off as flippantly narcissistic. \u201cI just wanted to get naked and put a rocket under this complacent joint,\u201d he tells Lian.She is serious, but not without humour; a glowing optimist with a purity that is a product of inexperience, not naivety. She finds shame in her lowly situation, but it is simply the flipside of her ambition and work ethic. \u201cI have pride, Dylan. You know this word? Pride,\u201d she tells him heatedly. He is captivated \u2013 and later horrified \u2013 by her steeliness versus the soft nostalgia with which she recalls an idyllic Chinese childhood.While this kind of cross-cultural exchange is nothing exceptional, from my own experience, the gap between local and foreigner does seem to be wider in China. Foreigners are perceived, at least initially, as draped with the colours of their national flag, and with varying degrees of frustration and humour the words \u201cyou don\u2019t understand\u201d inevitably show up regularly in conversation. It is a sentence uttered throughout the play.Of course, understanding that big, energetic, messy thing called China is a mammoth task. In her latest book, Linda Jaivin \u2013 one of many writers and academics that Smith consulted in writing her play \u2013 quotes a famous Taiwan writer called Li Ao: \u201cChina\u2019s a massive thing, still hidden in the mists. The Chinese don\u2019t understand China; all they know are \u2018Chinese cliches\u2019. Foreigners don\u2019t understand China; all they know is \u2018Chinese chop suey\u2019.\u201dSmith does much better than \u201cchop suey\u201d, despite having only been to China once, for a few weeks, more than 30 years ago. In her cosy Petersham home, the playwright credits her Chinese sister-in-law. Many of their long conversations fed into this work and it shows: the play is stuffed with contemporary Chinese references, from Weibo, to land dispossessions, \u201cleftover women\u201d and internet censorship.There is a spinning, joyful nausea about the play too, which required big risks on Smith\u2019s part. In explaining the challenges of capturing an alien culture, she says: \u201cI\u2019m actually trying to walk this fine line of how do we feel about each other? Can we ever really trust one another? Can we ever real understand each other? Of course there\u2019s going to be dangers in that territory. So, just bite the bullet and hope for the best really.\u201dThe play is uneven in spots, as it attempts to juggle political intrigue, with a love story and rich historical details. But it is also a bold work that tackles a critical issue in contemporary Australia: our relationship with a foreign nation, and how we react to large cultural differences. In looking at Australia\u2019s foreign policy, Smith identifies the country\u2019s heavy-handed suspicion of non-democractic, non-western countries.\u201cClive Palmer\u2019s recent spray is a reminder of just how profound the distrust is under the surface in this country. The politicians, when they\u2019re sensible, say all the right things: \u2018we respect China and China\u2019s our best friend, blah blah blah\u2019. In reality the whole geopolitical sphere is nervous about the rise of China. \u201cIs it [because] China is not a democracy or is it the old yellow peril fear? What is it? I don\u2019t know, and I wanted to just shine a light on it.\u201d\u2022 Kryptonite is presented by the Sydney Theatre Company until 18 October, then by the State Theatre Company of South Australia from 22 October to 9 November.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "China", "Australia news"], "title": "Kryptonite: China, Australia and the 'you don't understand' conversation"},{"date": "2014-09-26T04:20:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Monks, students and villagers from two of Phnom Penh\u2019s most notorious eviction sites protested outside the Australian embassy on Friday, calling for a controversial refugee settlement deal not to be signed later in the day by the immigration minister, Scott Morrison.Details are scant on what the memorandum of understanding contains, but it would see refugees who intended to seek asylum in Australia \u2013 only to be sent to the South Pacific island of Nauru \u2013 resettled in Cambodia.Morrison is expected to ink the deal in a joint ceremony with Cambodia\u2019s interior minister, Sar Kheng, at 3pm on Friday.The embassy road was heavily manned with riot police, who erected barricades at either end to prevent the rally from getting too close. Protesters held up signs calling for Cambodia\u2019s own dismal human rights and poverty situation to be addressed first.One read: \u201cCambodia doesn\u2019t discriminate other nations, but we need to help ourselves first, then we can help others.\u201dAnother said Cambodia can\u2019t accept what Australia has proposed, \u201cas we are still poor\u201d.On Friday morning Morrison revealed that Australia will give $40m in aid to Cambodia, but denied it was part of a deal to take the refugees for resettlement.The group of about 50 protesters made their way on foot around the block to get as close to the building as possible in order to hand in a petition asking for the deal to be called off.At one point, in the shadow of the imposing embassy wall, a woman called Bo Chhorvy, from the Boeung Kak community \u2013 where 3,000 families have been evicted and their houses torn down to make way for a massive development project \u2013 was knocked down by police officials and suffered a cut to her head. Her friends dragged her aside and tried to revive her.\u201cWe cannot accept refugees,\u201d a monk yelled into a loudspeaker.Son Chhay, a lawmaker from the opposition Cambodia National Rescue party who was once a refugee in Australia, said his party had been frozen out and given no details whatsoever about how such a plan would be executed. He also referred to Cambodia\u2019s poor record regarding its handling of refugees supposed to be in its care.\u201cBy sending back Montagnards from Vietnam and Uighurs from China and some refugees from North Korea, we don\u2019t see the point why the government is accepting and wants refugees from Australia today,\u201d he said.\u201cI believe Cambodia ought to implement the refugee convention \u2026 and provide support to genuine refugees, but not on a secretive [basis], not to use Cambodia as a dumping ground for unwanted refugees.\u201dCambodia is the 17th most corrupt country in the world, according to the Transparency International corruption index. Chhay said he was concerned that the $40m could be siphoned off, and that Australia should shoulder the responsibility of doing business with Cambodia.\u201cIt has to be open; today, we must show the public \u2026 what sort of deal they are making, what they are going to do with that money?\u201d", "tags": ["Cambodia", "Australian immigration and asylum", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "Australian politics", "Scott Morrison", "Nauru", "Protest", "Human rights", "Refugees"], "title": "Cambodians protest Australia using country as refugee \u2018dumping ground\u2019"},{"date": "2014-12-19T13:15:31Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia\u2019s tax authorities have ruled that bitcoin transactions are subject to the goods and services tax (GST), suggesting that the cryptocurrency is not likely to be classed as \u201cmoney\u201d in the near future.The ruling mainly applies to Australian businesses running bitcoin exchanges, which let customers trade real money for the digital currency. The decision means that when bitcoin is bought from an exchange, it will have to pay GST on the supply of bitcoin.GST does not usually apply to financial transactions, meaning that a conventional money exchange does not have to charge the tax when Australians buy foreign currency. \u201cA transfer of bitcoin from one entity to another is a \u2018supply\u2019 for GST purposes,\u201d the Australian Tax Office said. \u201cThe exclusion from the definition of supply for supplies of money does not apply to bitcoin because bitcoin is not \u2018money\u2019 for the purposes of the GST Act.\u201dThe tax will make running a bitcoin exchange in Australia an expensive proposition, because it is due on the total amount of bitcoin supplied, rather than on the cut the exchange takes above the market value.However, the way an exchange actually operates will make a difference. Bitcoin \u201ctrading platforms\u201d are liable for much less GST under the new rules. The difference lies in whether the company buys and sells bitcoin itself, or merely facilitates transactions between third parties in a manner akin to a stock exchange. If it is the latter, then GST is only due on the percentage commission the exchange charges - not on the total amount bought.The ruling also complicates transactions involving spending bitcoin, requiring sellers that accept the currency to treat it as a \u201ctaxable supply\u201d, rather than simply money exchanged for goods and services.The office\u2019s rationale for treating bitcoin in this way is that \u201cbitcoin is not a legally recognised universal means of exchange and form of payment by the laws of Australia or the laws of any other country. Therefore, it is not \u2018currency (whether of Australia or of any other country)\u2019 under paragraph (a) of the definition of \u2018money\u2019.\u201dNot every country has decided to treat bitcoin in this way. Britain abolished VAT on bitcoin trades in March, although it avoided declaring bitcoin a currency. Nonetheless, the UK now treats bitcoin almost identically to conventional currencies, and buying bitcoins is no longer subject to VAT.In December, New York state followed suit, ruling that sales tax was not due on purchases of bitcoin, and again avoiding explicitly declaring bitcoin a currency.Australia hinted it would be taking the opposite approach in a draft ruling in August, and businesses have been steeling themselves for the final decision. CoinJar, a bitcoin wallet provider and one of Australia\u2019s largest bitcoin firms, relocated to London in the wake of the draft ruling, while some smaller firms have decided to close.\u2022 Bitcoin is the worst investment of 2014. But can it recover?", "tags": ["Bitcoin", "Technology", "Cryptocurrencies", "E-commerce", "Internet", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Bitcoin hit with tax blow in Australia"},{"date": "2014-12-19T13:15:31Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia\u2019s tax authorities have ruled that bitcoin transactions are subject to the goods and services tax (GST), suggesting that the cryptocurrency is not likely to be classed as \u201cmoney\u201d in the near future.The ruling mainly applies to Australian businesses running bitcoin exchanges, which let customers trade real money for the digital currency. The decision means that when bitcoin is bought from an exchange, it will have to pay GST on the supply of bitcoin.GST does not usually apply to financial transactions, meaning that a conventional money exchange does not have to charge the tax when Australians buy foreign currency. \u201cA transfer of bitcoin from one entity to another is a \u2018supply\u2019 for GST purposes,\u201d the Australian Tax Office said. \u201cThe exclusion from the definition of supply for supplies of money does not apply to bitcoin because bitcoin is not \u2018money\u2019 for the purposes of the GST Act.\u201dThe tax will make running a bitcoin exchange in Australia an expensive proposition, because it is due on the total amount of bitcoin supplied, rather than on the cut the exchange takes above the market value.However, the way an exchange actually operates will make a difference. Bitcoin \u201ctrading platforms\u201d are liable for much less GST under the new rules. The difference lies in whether the company buys and sells bitcoin itself, or merely facilitates transactions between third parties in a manner akin to a stock exchange. If it is the latter, then GST is only due on the percentage commission the exchange charges - not on the total amount bought.The ruling also complicates transactions involving spending bitcoin, requiring sellers that accept the currency to treat it as a \u201ctaxable supply\u201d, rather than simply money exchanged for goods and services.The office\u2019s rationale for treating bitcoin in this way is that \u201cbitcoin is not a legally recognised universal means of exchange and form of payment by the laws of Australia or the laws of any other country. Therefore, it is not \u2018currency (whether of Australia or of any other country)\u2019 under paragraph (a) of the definition of \u2018money\u2019.\u201dNot every country has decided to treat bitcoin in this way. Britain abolished VAT on bitcoin trades in March, although it avoided declaring bitcoin a currency. Nonetheless, the UK now treats bitcoin almost identically to conventional currencies, and buying bitcoins is no longer subject to VAT.In December, New York state followed suit, ruling that sales tax was not due on purchases of bitcoin, and again avoiding explicitly declaring bitcoin a currency.Australia hinted it would be taking the opposite approach in a draft ruling in August, and businesses have been steeling themselves for the final decision. CoinJar, a bitcoin wallet provider and one of Australia\u2019s largest bitcoin firms, relocated to London in the wake of the draft ruling, while some smaller firms have decided to close.\u2022 Bitcoin is the worst investment of 2014. But can it recover?", "tags": ["Bitcoin", "Technology", "Cryptocurrencies", "E-commerce", "Internet", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Bitcoin hit with tax blow in Australia"},{"date": "2014-12-10T01:01:46Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In order to sign up to our email, you\u2019ll first need to sign in to or create a theguardian.com account.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "The Guardian today - Australia: subscribe by email"},{"date": "2014-12-19T13:15:31Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia\u2019s tax authorities have ruled that bitcoin transactions are subject to the goods and services tax (GST), suggesting that the cryptocurrency is not likely to be classed as \u201cmoney\u201d in the near future.The ruling mainly applies to Australian businesses running bitcoin exchanges, which let customers trade real money for the digital currency. The decision means that when bitcoin is bought from an exchange, it will have to pay GST on the supply of bitcoin.GST does not usually apply to financial transactions, meaning that a conventional money exchange does not have to charge the tax when Australians buy foreign currency. \u201cA transfer of bitcoin from one entity to another is a \u2018supply\u2019 for GST purposes,\u201d the Australian Tax Office said. \u201cThe exclusion from the definition of supply for supplies of money does not apply to bitcoin because bitcoin is not \u2018money\u2019 for the purposes of the GST Act.\u201dThe tax will make running a bitcoin exchange in Australia an expensive proposition, because it is due on the total amount of bitcoin supplied, rather than on the cut the exchange takes above the market value.However, the way an exchange actually operates will make a difference. Bitcoin \u201ctrading platforms\u201d are liable for much less GST under the new rules. The difference lies in whether the company buys and sells bitcoin itself, or merely facilitates transactions between third parties in a manner akin to a stock exchange. If it is the latter, then GST is only due on the percentage commission the exchange charges - not on the total amount bought.The ruling also complicates transactions involving spending bitcoin, requiring sellers that accept the currency to treat it as a \u201ctaxable supply\u201d, rather than simply money exchanged for goods and services.The office\u2019s rationale for treating bitcoin in this way is that \u201cbitcoin is not a legally recognised universal means of exchange and form of payment by the laws of Australia or the laws of any other country. Therefore, it is not \u2018currency (whether of Australia or of any other country)\u2019 under paragraph (a) of the definition of \u2018money\u2019.\u201dNot every country has decided to treat bitcoin in this way. Britain abolished VAT on bitcoin trades in March, although it avoided declaring bitcoin a currency. Nonetheless, the UK now treats bitcoin almost identically to conventional currencies, and buying bitcoins is no longer subject to VAT.In December, New York state followed suit, ruling that sales tax was not due on purchases of bitcoin, and again avoiding explicitly declaring bitcoin a currency.Australia hinted it would be taking the opposite approach in a draft ruling in August, and businesses have been steeling themselves for the final decision. CoinJar, a bitcoin wallet provider and one of Australia\u2019s largest bitcoin firms, relocated to London in the wake of the draft ruling, while some smaller firms have decided to close.\u2022 Bitcoin is the worst investment of 2014. But can it recover?", "tags": ["Bitcoin", "Technology", "Cryptocurrencies", "E-commerce", "Internet", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Bitcoin hit with tax blow in Australia"},{"date": "2014-12-10T01:01:46Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In order to sign up to our email, you\u2019ll first need to sign in to or create a theguardian.com account.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "The Guardian today - Australia: subscribe by email"},{"date": "2014-12-02T00:15:33Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia will cut its funding to the UN Environment Programme (Unep) by more than 80%, it has been reported.The federal government was due to give $1.2m to Unep this year, but will now give just $200,000. The ABC reported $4m would be cut over the next four years.The environment minister, Greg Hunt, said the fund was not a budget priority for the government.\u201cYou\u2019ve always got to make choices in a difficult budget environment. I would imagine that most Australians would think that putting $12m into coral reef protection within our region, and combating illegal logging of the rainforests of the Asia Pacific would be a pretty good investment, rather than $4m for bureaucratic support within the UN system,\u201d Hunt said.Unep was established in 1972 with the aim of promoting environmental sustainability through global action. It relies on contributions from member countries.\u201cClose to 90% of the financing of Unep is voluntary and depends on countries\u2019 goodwill and also their recognition of Unep,\u201d the executive director of the program, Achim Steiner, told the ABC.\u201cYou have to be disappointed [with the funding cut] because clearly the contribution of member states is what enables the Unep to fulfil its mandate and be of service to the global community,\u201d Steiner said.The opposition spokeswoman on foreign affairs, Tanya Plibersek, said: \u201cTony Abbott tried to keep climate change off the G20 agenda, but he failed. That\u2019s because other world leaders know climate change is both an environmental and economic issue.\u201d \u201cThe cuts revealed today just reinforce that when it comes to climate change Tony Abbott is out on his own.\u201dBased on its funding commitments for 2012, Australia ranked 13th globally in its support for Unep. The Netherlands contributed the most, with $10m. The US pledged $6.5m and the UK $5.7m.The foreign minister, Julie Bishop, will soon visit Peru for major international climate talks that have been hailed the best chance in a generation for reaching global climate consensus.The Greens leader, Christine Milne, labelled the funding cut \u201ca slap in the face\u201d. \u201cAustralia is a global pariah on the climate front,\u201d Milne said on Tuesday. \u201cThis sleight of hand is just extraordinary.\u201dShe accused the government of using money taken from Unep to fund its commitment to stop illegal logging of rainforests, made at the World Parks Congress in Sydney in November.\u201cThis is really Australia on a world stage behaving badly on the climate. We are so out of step as a nation with the rest of the world. We are not only risking the environment, but Australia\u2019s standing in the world is seriously diminished by the Abbott government,\u201d Milne said.", "tags": ["Australian politics", "Australia news", "United Nations", "Greg Hunt", "Environment"], "title": "Australia slashes funding for UN Environment Programme"},{"date": "2014-12-19T13:15:31Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia\u2019s tax authorities have ruled that bitcoin transactions are subject to the goods and services tax (GST), suggesting that the cryptocurrency is not likely to be classed as \u201cmoney\u201d in the near future.The ruling mainly applies to Australian businesses running bitcoin exchanges, which let customers trade real money for the digital currency. The decision means that when bitcoin is bought from an exchange, it will have to pay GST on the supply of bitcoin.GST does not usually apply to financial transactions, meaning that a conventional money exchange does not have to charge the tax when Australians buy foreign currency. \u201cA transfer of bitcoin from one entity to another is a \u2018supply\u2019 for GST purposes,\u201d the Australian Tax Office said. \u201cThe exclusion from the definition of supply for supplies of money does not apply to bitcoin because bitcoin is not \u2018money\u2019 for the purposes of the GST Act.\u201dThe tax will make running a bitcoin exchange in Australia an expensive proposition, because it is due on the total amount of bitcoin supplied, rather than on the cut the exchange takes above the market value.However, the way an exchange actually operates will make a difference. Bitcoin \u201ctrading platforms\u201d are liable for much less GST under the new rules. The difference lies in whether the company buys and sells bitcoin itself, or merely facilitates transactions between third parties in a manner akin to a stock exchange. If it is the latter, then GST is only due on the percentage commission the exchange charges - not on the total amount bought.The ruling also complicates transactions involving spending bitcoin, requiring sellers that accept the currency to treat it as a \u201ctaxable supply\u201d, rather than simply money exchanged for goods and services.The office\u2019s rationale for treating bitcoin in this way is that \u201cbitcoin is not a legally recognised universal means of exchange and form of payment by the laws of Australia or the laws of any other country. Therefore, it is not \u2018currency (whether of Australia or of any other country)\u2019 under paragraph (a) of the definition of \u2018money\u2019.\u201dNot every country has decided to treat bitcoin in this way. Britain abolished VAT on bitcoin trades in March, although it avoided declaring bitcoin a currency. Nonetheless, the UK now treats bitcoin almost identically to conventional currencies, and buying bitcoins is no longer subject to VAT.In December, New York state followed suit, ruling that sales tax was not due on purchases of bitcoin, and again avoiding explicitly declaring bitcoin a currency.Australia hinted it would be taking the opposite approach in a draft ruling in August, and businesses have been steeling themselves for the final decision. CoinJar, a bitcoin wallet provider and one of Australia\u2019s largest bitcoin firms, relocated to London in the wake of the draft ruling, while some smaller firms have decided to close.\u2022 Bitcoin is the worst investment of 2014. But can it recover?", "tags": ["Bitcoin", "Technology", "Cryptocurrencies", "E-commerce", "Internet", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Bitcoin hit with tax blow in Australia"},{"date": "2014-12-10T01:01:46Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In order to sign up to our email, you\u2019ll first need to sign in to or create a theguardian.com account.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "The Guardian today - Australia: subscribe by email"},{"date": "2014-12-02T00:15:33Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia will cut its funding to the UN Environment Programme (Unep) by more than 80%, it has been reported.The federal government was due to give $1.2m to Unep this year, but will now give just $200,000. The ABC reported $4m would be cut over the next four years.The environment minister, Greg Hunt, said the fund was not a budget priority for the government.\u201cYou\u2019ve always got to make choices in a difficult budget environment. I would imagine that most Australians would think that putting $12m into coral reef protection within our region, and combating illegal logging of the rainforests of the Asia Pacific would be a pretty good investment, rather than $4m for bureaucratic support within the UN system,\u201d Hunt said.Unep was established in 1972 with the aim of promoting environmental sustainability through global action. It relies on contributions from member countries.\u201cClose to 90% of the financing of Unep is voluntary and depends on countries\u2019 goodwill and also their recognition of Unep,\u201d the executive director of the program, Achim Steiner, told the ABC.\u201cYou have to be disappointed [with the funding cut] because clearly the contribution of member states is what enables the Unep to fulfil its mandate and be of service to the global community,\u201d Steiner said.The opposition spokeswoman on foreign affairs, Tanya Plibersek, said: \u201cTony Abbott tried to keep climate change off the G20 agenda, but he failed. That\u2019s because other world leaders know climate change is both an environmental and economic issue.\u201d \u201cThe cuts revealed today just reinforce that when it comes to climate change Tony Abbott is out on his own.\u201dBased on its funding commitments for 2012, Australia ranked 13th globally in its support for Unep. The Netherlands contributed the most, with $10m. The US pledged $6.5m and the UK $5.7m.The foreign minister, Julie Bishop, will soon visit Peru for major international climate talks that have been hailed the best chance in a generation for reaching global climate consensus.The Greens leader, Christine Milne, labelled the funding cut \u201ca slap in the face\u201d. \u201cAustralia is a global pariah on the climate front,\u201d Milne said on Tuesday. \u201cThis sleight of hand is just extraordinary.\u201dShe accused the government of using money taken from Unep to fund its commitment to stop illegal logging of rainforests, made at the World Parks Congress in Sydney in November.\u201cThis is really Australia on a world stage behaving badly on the climate. We are so out of step as a nation with the rest of the world. We are not only risking the environment, but Australia\u2019s standing in the world is seriously diminished by the Abbott government,\u201d Milne said.", "tags": ["Australian politics", "Australia news", "United Nations", "Greg Hunt", "Environment"], "title": "Australia slashes funding for UN Environment Programme"},{"date": "2014-10-31T03:29:16Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The US and Australia have removed sanctions against Fiji following democratic elections.Australia\u2019s foreign minister, Julie Bishop, on Friday began a two-day visit to Fiji, describing it as the start of a new era in the relationship between the two countries. She announced that Australia had lifted all remaining sanctions, including on weapons sales.The US ambassador to Fiji, Frankie Reed, said the US was lifting restrictions on its financial assistance to the Fijian government and exploring opportunities to resume co-operation with Fiji\u2019s military.Fiji\u2019s election in September was the first since military ruler Voreqe (Frank) Bainimarama seized control in a 2006 coup. His Fiji First party won a decisive victory at the polls, completing his transformation from military strongman to civilian leader.Bishop\u2019s visit is the first by any foreign minister since the election. \u201cToday marks the start of a new era in the relationship between Australia and Fiji,\u201d she said.Under the resumption of ties a high commissioner will once again be posted by Australia in Fiji and vice versa. Last week the Pacific Islands Forum announced Fiji was rejoining the regional body after a six-year suspension.The Associated Press and Australian Associated press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Fiji", "Australia news", "US foreign policy", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "US and Australia lift Fiji sanctions"},{"date": "2014-12-19T13:15:31Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia\u2019s tax authorities have ruled that bitcoin transactions are subject to the goods and services tax (GST), suggesting that the cryptocurrency is not likely to be classed as \u201cmoney\u201d in the near future.The ruling mainly applies to Australian businesses running bitcoin exchanges, which let customers trade real money for the digital currency. The decision means that when bitcoin is bought from an exchange, it will have to pay GST on the supply of bitcoin.GST does not usually apply to financial transactions, meaning that a conventional money exchange does not have to charge the tax when Australians buy foreign currency. \u201cA transfer of bitcoin from one entity to another is a \u2018supply\u2019 for GST purposes,\u201d the Australian Tax Office said. \u201cThe exclusion from the definition of supply for supplies of money does not apply to bitcoin because bitcoin is not \u2018money\u2019 for the purposes of the GST Act.\u201dThe tax will make running a bitcoin exchange in Australia an expensive proposition, because it is due on the total amount of bitcoin supplied, rather than on the cut the exchange takes above the market value.However, the way an exchange actually operates will make a difference. Bitcoin \u201ctrading platforms\u201d are liable for much less GST under the new rules. The difference lies in whether the company buys and sells bitcoin itself, or merely facilitates transactions between third parties in a manner akin to a stock exchange. If it is the latter, then GST is only due on the percentage commission the exchange charges - not on the total amount bought.The ruling also complicates transactions involving spending bitcoin, requiring sellers that accept the currency to treat it as a \u201ctaxable supply\u201d, rather than simply money exchanged for goods and services.The office\u2019s rationale for treating bitcoin in this way is that \u201cbitcoin is not a legally recognised universal means of exchange and form of payment by the laws of Australia or the laws of any other country. Therefore, it is not \u2018currency (whether of Australia or of any other country)\u2019 under paragraph (a) of the definition of \u2018money\u2019.\u201dNot every country has decided to treat bitcoin in this way. Britain abolished VAT on bitcoin trades in March, although it avoided declaring bitcoin a currency. Nonetheless, the UK now treats bitcoin almost identically to conventional currencies, and buying bitcoins is no longer subject to VAT.In December, New York state followed suit, ruling that sales tax was not due on purchases of bitcoin, and again avoiding explicitly declaring bitcoin a currency.Australia hinted it would be taking the opposite approach in a draft ruling in August, and businesses have been steeling themselves for the final decision. CoinJar, a bitcoin wallet provider and one of Australia\u2019s largest bitcoin firms, relocated to London in the wake of the draft ruling, while some smaller firms have decided to close.\u2022 Bitcoin is the worst investment of 2014. But can it recover?", "tags": ["Bitcoin", "Technology", "Cryptocurrencies", "E-commerce", "Internet", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Bitcoin hit with tax blow in Australia"},{"date": "2014-12-10T01:01:46Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In order to sign up to our email, you\u2019ll first need to sign in to or create a theguardian.com account.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "The Guardian today - Australia: subscribe by email"},{"date": "2014-12-02T00:15:33Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia will cut its funding to the UN Environment Programme (Unep) by more than 80%, it has been reported.The federal government was due to give $1.2m to Unep this year, but will now give just $200,000. The ABC reported $4m would be cut over the next four years.The environment minister, Greg Hunt, said the fund was not a budget priority for the government.\u201cYou\u2019ve always got to make choices in a difficult budget environment. I would imagine that most Australians would think that putting $12m into coral reef protection within our region, and combating illegal logging of the rainforests of the Asia Pacific would be a pretty good investment, rather than $4m for bureaucratic support within the UN system,\u201d Hunt said.Unep was established in 1972 with the aim of promoting environmental sustainability through global action. It relies on contributions from member countries.\u201cClose to 90% of the financing of Unep is voluntary and depends on countries\u2019 goodwill and also their recognition of Unep,\u201d the executive director of the program, Achim Steiner, told the ABC.\u201cYou have to be disappointed [with the funding cut] because clearly the contribution of member states is what enables the Unep to fulfil its mandate and be of service to the global community,\u201d Steiner said.The opposition spokeswoman on foreign affairs, Tanya Plibersek, said: \u201cTony Abbott tried to keep climate change off the G20 agenda, but he failed. That\u2019s because other world leaders know climate change is both an environmental and economic issue.\u201d \u201cThe cuts revealed today just reinforce that when it comes to climate change Tony Abbott is out on his own.\u201dBased on its funding commitments for 2012, Australia ranked 13th globally in its support for Unep. The Netherlands contributed the most, with $10m. The US pledged $6.5m and the UK $5.7m.The foreign minister, Julie Bishop, will soon visit Peru for major international climate talks that have been hailed the best chance in a generation for reaching global climate consensus.The Greens leader, Christine Milne, labelled the funding cut \u201ca slap in the face\u201d. \u201cAustralia is a global pariah on the climate front,\u201d Milne said on Tuesday. \u201cThis sleight of hand is just extraordinary.\u201dShe accused the government of using money taken from Unep to fund its commitment to stop illegal logging of rainforests, made at the World Parks Congress in Sydney in November.\u201cThis is really Australia on a world stage behaving badly on the climate. We are so out of step as a nation with the rest of the world. We are not only risking the environment, but Australia\u2019s standing in the world is seriously diminished by the Abbott government,\u201d Milne said.", "tags": ["Australian politics", "Australia news", "United Nations", "Greg Hunt", "Environment"], "title": "Australia slashes funding for UN Environment Programme"},{"date": "2014-10-31T03:29:16Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The US and Australia have removed sanctions against Fiji following democratic elections.Australia\u2019s foreign minister, Julie Bishop, on Friday began a two-day visit to Fiji, describing it as the start of a new era in the relationship between the two countries. She announced that Australia had lifted all remaining sanctions, including on weapons sales.The US ambassador to Fiji, Frankie Reed, said the US was lifting restrictions on its financial assistance to the Fijian government and exploring opportunities to resume co-operation with Fiji\u2019s military.Fiji\u2019s election in September was the first since military ruler Voreqe (Frank) Bainimarama seized control in a 2006 coup. His Fiji First party won a decisive victory at the polls, completing his transformation from military strongman to civilian leader.Bishop\u2019s visit is the first by any foreign minister since the election. \u201cToday marks the start of a new era in the relationship between Australia and Fiji,\u201d she said.Under the resumption of ties a high commissioner will once again be posted by Australia in Fiji and vice versa. Last week the Pacific Islands Forum announced Fiji was rejoining the regional body after a six-year suspension.The Associated Press and Australian Associated press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Fiji", "Australia news", "US foreign policy", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "US and Australia lift Fiji sanctions"},{"date": "2014-10-22T10:01:58Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Three Guardian Australia journalists took home the Print/Online award at the inaugural Amnesty International Australia Media Awards, for an exclusive investigation which uncovered a serious data protection breach by the Australian immigration department.The award was given to journalists Oliver Laughland, Paul Farrell and Asher Wolf, at a ceremony in Sydney on Tuesday 21 October. Two other Guardian Australia journalists were runners up in separate categories - Andrew Quilty in the Photography category for \u2018Suffering on Two Fronts in Qabaait\u2019, and Paul Daley in the Indigenous category for \u2018The Bone Collectors\u2019Read more here.", "tags": ["Awards", "Awards 2014", "Guardian Australia press office"], "title": "Guardian Australia journalists win Amnesty media award"},{"date": "2014-12-19T13:15:31Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia\u2019s tax authorities have ruled that bitcoin transactions are subject to the goods and services tax (GST), suggesting that the cryptocurrency is not likely to be classed as \u201cmoney\u201d in the near future.The ruling mainly applies to Australian businesses running bitcoin exchanges, which let customers trade real money for the digital currency. The decision means that when bitcoin is bought from an exchange, it will have to pay GST on the supply of bitcoin.GST does not usually apply to financial transactions, meaning that a conventional money exchange does not have to charge the tax when Australians buy foreign currency. \u201cA transfer of bitcoin from one entity to another is a \u2018supply\u2019 for GST purposes,\u201d the Australian Tax Office said. \u201cThe exclusion from the definition of supply for supplies of money does not apply to bitcoin because bitcoin is not \u2018money\u2019 for the purposes of the GST Act.\u201dThe tax will make running a bitcoin exchange in Australia an expensive proposition, because it is due on the total amount of bitcoin supplied, rather than on the cut the exchange takes above the market value.However, the way an exchange actually operates will make a difference. Bitcoin \u201ctrading platforms\u201d are liable for much less GST under the new rules. The difference lies in whether the company buys and sells bitcoin itself, or merely facilitates transactions between third parties in a manner akin to a stock exchange. If it is the latter, then GST is only due on the percentage commission the exchange charges - not on the total amount bought.The ruling also complicates transactions involving spending bitcoin, requiring sellers that accept the currency to treat it as a \u201ctaxable supply\u201d, rather than simply money exchanged for goods and services.The office\u2019s rationale for treating bitcoin in this way is that \u201cbitcoin is not a legally recognised universal means of exchange and form of payment by the laws of Australia or the laws of any other country. Therefore, it is not \u2018currency (whether of Australia or of any other country)\u2019 under paragraph (a) of the definition of \u2018money\u2019.\u201dNot every country has decided to treat bitcoin in this way. Britain abolished VAT on bitcoin trades in March, although it avoided declaring bitcoin a currency. Nonetheless, the UK now treats bitcoin almost identically to conventional currencies, and buying bitcoins is no longer subject to VAT.In December, New York state followed suit, ruling that sales tax was not due on purchases of bitcoin, and again avoiding explicitly declaring bitcoin a currency.Australia hinted it would be taking the opposite approach in a draft ruling in August, and businesses have been steeling themselves for the final decision. CoinJar, a bitcoin wallet provider and one of Australia\u2019s largest bitcoin firms, relocated to London in the wake of the draft ruling, while some smaller firms have decided to close.\u2022 Bitcoin is the worst investment of 2014. But can it recover?", "tags": ["Bitcoin", "Technology", "Cryptocurrencies", "E-commerce", "Internet", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Bitcoin hit with tax blow in Australia"},{"date": "2014-12-10T01:01:46Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In order to sign up to our email, you\u2019ll first need to sign in to or create a theguardian.com account.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "The Guardian today - Australia: subscribe by email"},{"date": "2014-12-02T00:15:33Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia will cut its funding to the UN Environment Programme (Unep) by more than 80%, it has been reported.The federal government was due to give $1.2m to Unep this year, but will now give just $200,000. The ABC reported $4m would be cut over the next four years.The environment minister, Greg Hunt, said the fund was not a budget priority for the government.\u201cYou\u2019ve always got to make choices in a difficult budget environment. I would imagine that most Australians would think that putting $12m into coral reef protection within our region, and combating illegal logging of the rainforests of the Asia Pacific would be a pretty good investment, rather than $4m for bureaucratic support within the UN system,\u201d Hunt said.Unep was established in 1972 with the aim of promoting environmental sustainability through global action. It relies on contributions from member countries.\u201cClose to 90% of the financing of Unep is voluntary and depends on countries\u2019 goodwill and also their recognition of Unep,\u201d the executive director of the program, Achim Steiner, told the ABC.\u201cYou have to be disappointed [with the funding cut] because clearly the contribution of member states is what enables the Unep to fulfil its mandate and be of service to the global community,\u201d Steiner said.The opposition spokeswoman on foreign affairs, Tanya Plibersek, said: \u201cTony Abbott tried to keep climate change off the G20 agenda, but he failed. That\u2019s because other world leaders know climate change is both an environmental and economic issue.\u201d \u201cThe cuts revealed today just reinforce that when it comes to climate change Tony Abbott is out on his own.\u201dBased on its funding commitments for 2012, Australia ranked 13th globally in its support for Unep. The Netherlands contributed the most, with $10m. The US pledged $6.5m and the UK $5.7m.The foreign minister, Julie Bishop, will soon visit Peru for major international climate talks that have been hailed the best chance in a generation for reaching global climate consensus.The Greens leader, Christine Milne, labelled the funding cut \u201ca slap in the face\u201d. \u201cAustralia is a global pariah on the climate front,\u201d Milne said on Tuesday. \u201cThis sleight of hand is just extraordinary.\u201dShe accused the government of using money taken from Unep to fund its commitment to stop illegal logging of rainforests, made at the World Parks Congress in Sydney in November.\u201cThis is really Australia on a world stage behaving badly on the climate. We are so out of step as a nation with the rest of the world. We are not only risking the environment, but Australia\u2019s standing in the world is seriously diminished by the Abbott government,\u201d Milne said.", "tags": ["Australian politics", "Australia news", "United Nations", "Greg Hunt", "Environment"], "title": "Australia slashes funding for UN Environment Programme"},{"date": "2014-10-31T03:29:16Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The US and Australia have removed sanctions against Fiji following democratic elections.Australia\u2019s foreign minister, Julie Bishop, on Friday began a two-day visit to Fiji, describing it as the start of a new era in the relationship between the two countries. She announced that Australia had lifted all remaining sanctions, including on weapons sales.The US ambassador to Fiji, Frankie Reed, said the US was lifting restrictions on its financial assistance to the Fijian government and exploring opportunities to resume co-operation with Fiji\u2019s military.Fiji\u2019s election in September was the first since military ruler Voreqe (Frank) Bainimarama seized control in a 2006 coup. His Fiji First party won a decisive victory at the polls, completing his transformation from military strongman to civilian leader.Bishop\u2019s visit is the first by any foreign minister since the election. \u201cToday marks the start of a new era in the relationship between Australia and Fiji,\u201d she said.Under the resumption of ties a high commissioner will once again be posted by Australia in Fiji and vice versa. Last week the Pacific Islands Forum announced Fiji was rejoining the regional body after a six-year suspension.The Associated Press and Australian Associated press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Fiji", "Australia news", "US foreign policy", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "US and Australia lift Fiji sanctions"},{"date": "2014-10-22T10:01:58Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Three Guardian Australia journalists took home the Print/Online award at the inaugural Amnesty International Australia Media Awards, for an exclusive investigation which uncovered a serious data protection breach by the Australian immigration department.The award was given to journalists Oliver Laughland, Paul Farrell and Asher Wolf, at a ceremony in Sydney on Tuesday 21 October. Two other Guardian Australia journalists were runners up in separate categories - Andrew Quilty in the Photography category for \u2018Suffering on Two Fronts in Qabaait\u2019, and Paul Daley in the Indigenous category for \u2018The Bone Collectors\u2019Read more here.", "tags": ["Awards", "Awards 2014", "Guardian Australia press office"], "title": "Guardian Australia journalists win Amnesty media award"},{"date": "2014-12-29T08:11:45Z", "country": "australia", "content": "\n\n8.11am GMT\n08:11\n\nThe day in briefWell that was another absorbing day of cricket in this 3rd Test at the MCG. The scene is now set for an equally-compelling finish with Australia in a commanding position - 326 runs ahead - but not entirely certain that this talent-laden Indian batting line-up will fold on day five.Australia started the day by mopping up the Indian tail in clinical style before Chris Rogers (69) nudged, nurdled and occasionally even blasted (yes, you read that right) his way to his fourth consecutive Test half-century and provided the ballast as Australia went about setting a challenging total for the tourists. The Indians pegged them back with a steady flow of wickets though. Shane Watson (17) and Joe Burns (9) fell to loose strokes and Steve Smith (12) to a leg-side trap that had given the Indians no joy previously.Of the Indian bolwers, Yadav (2-73 from 14) was expensive and took wickets from shockers but stuck at his task, Ishant (2-49 from 19) was both probing an occasionally menacing and Ashwin (2-56 off 22) never less than a threat. If India\u2019s batting form of this summer and the feisty spirit in which this series has been played holds true, we\u2019re in for a far more absorbing final day tomorrow than the raw numbers might suggest. Make sure you join us at 10am local time for all the live action. \n\n8.03am GMT\n08:03\n\n75th over - Australia 261-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 8)With all that faffing of the last over, the world\u2019s oldest-looking 24-year-old, Mohammad Shami, will bowl the last over of the day. He starts with some rubbish down the leg side, which suits Ryan Harris just fine in his efforts to chaperone Marsh through to stumps. Harris even sneaks two through mid wicket when Shami fluffs his attempt at an in-swinging yorker. And that is that. Stumps is called on day four and the Australians lead by 326 with a 10am (local time) start tomorrow due to the time lost to weather today. \n\n7.57am GMT\n07:57\n\n74th over - Australia 259-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 6)There\u2019s just six minutes left now until the end of the day\u2019s play but if India are in a hurry to let their bowlers get the maximum opportunity for a dismissal, they\u2019ve got a funny way of showing it. They loll about in the field and at one point the ball - in the process of being passed back towards Yadav - is tossed over Kohli\u2019s head and half-way out to the boundary. Good to see CA offering a $20 adult charge to see the denouement of this Test match tomorrow. #goodvalue\n\n7.53am GMT\n07:53\n\n73rd over - Australia 257-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 5)Ryan Harris isn\u2019t afraid of a bit of hard work and digs in admirably as Ashwin zeroes in around his middle and leg stumps with a series of curling, drifting offies. His defence looks impregnable but it\u2019s effective for now. The maiden also probably comes as a relief to the bowler too. Australia leads by 322. Updated\nat 7.53am GMT\n\n\n7.48am GMT\n07:48\n\n72nd over - Australia 257-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 5)Yadav produces a maiden to Marsh. Six balls, no runs. Fancy that. KFC Trivia: What will Brayshaw call cricket balls in this commentary stint? A) Cherries B) Nuts C) Tomatoes D) Mogwais #ChannelNineNonsense\n\n7.43am GMT\n07:43\n\n71st over - Australia 257-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 5)The other thing that this recent onslaught has achieved for Australia, aside from the obvious, is that it\u2019s blunted Ashwin\u2019s influence as he\u2019s reactively tended towards a flatter and faster trajectory. That\u2019s a big win for the home side. Updated\nat 7.44am GMT\n\n\n7.41am GMT\n07:41\n\n70th over - Australia 255-7 (Marsh 61, Harris 4)Marsh is in charge now. He gets the strike back from Harris, digs out a yorker and then pummels Shami for a pair of wonderful boundaries through cover. He struggled to the 40s and made batting look like learning Sanskrit, but now I\u2019m convincing myself he\u2019s on for a ton. Can Harris hang around? Is there enough time? Australia leads by 320.\n\n7.37am GMT\n07:37\n\n69th over - Australia 246-7 (Marsh 53, Harris 3)Whoooof!! Out of nowhere, Shaun Marsh explodes into action by advancing down the track to Ashwin and thumping the spinner over long-on for six to bring up a determined half-century. India need to be careful here because Harris is no slouch, as his first-innings 74 would attest. I remember watching him play as a genuine all-rounder for the Redbacks in the late 90s. What a time that was. I wasn\u2019t even receding yet. @rustyjacko When one leaves a game then returns, one's perspective is different from those who have watched it. Aus look MILES ahead to me!But I\u2019ve seen things, Gary. I\u2019ve seen things. \n\n7.32am GMT\n07:32\n\n68th over - Australia 236-7 (Marsh 44, Harris 2)Rahane thinks he has another catch at leg gully from Harris but Kumar Dharmasena makes another judicious call, rightly identifying that it had come off the batsman\u2019s hip. The Australian lead edges past 300 with 2 to Harris. Robert Wilson is on the mark, as usual. \u201cThere\u2019s been so much sub-Beckett gloom about the evils of IPL and the death-throes of tests in the last couple of years. With this game setting up beautifully for the last day, that lovely NZ win and the W.Indies currently showing some wherewithal, may I just say that the death throes seem quite vigorous and entertaining?\u201dYes, you certainly can.\n\n7.29am GMT\n07:29\n\nShami strikes with a a slower-ball bouncer, tying Johnson up and drawing a false stroke that bobbles up in the air to Rahane at mid-wicket. The Australian lead now sits at 299 and there is a lot of feeling out in the middle. Johnson appears to have words to Kohli and perhaps Ishant on the way off. No surprises there, though probably not a great idea on the part of the tourists if the Gabba is anything to go by. \n\n7.25am GMT\n07:25\n\n67th over - Australia 234-6 (Marsh 44, Johnson 15)Ashwin and Dhoni have conspired to place two men in the deep, straight, to Johnson. That almost brings about a wicket when the Aussie moves down the track and biffs another flat, fearsome drive but it skids through to Murali Vijay from a single bounce, never rising greatly above head height.\n\n7.22am GMT\n07:22\n\n66th over - Australia 233-6 (Marsh 44, Johnson 14)Johnson might have been unshackled by that boundary off Ashwin because he unleashes a thunderous blow off Shami here too, a cross-bat mow that almost kills both the bowler and Umpire Kumar Dharmasena. That breeds some trepidation among the fielding side as well and there\u2019s a fumble in the field next up to gift him a single. I haven\u2019t mentioned it yet, but how magnificent has it been to have Bill Lawry back for what is now a kind of bittersweet Christmas present to cricket lovers?I'll never get tired of Bill Lawry saying 'he hit it as clean as a whistle' #AUSvIND\n\n7.17am GMT\n07:17\n\n65th over - Australia 228-6 (Marsh 44, Johnson 9)Mitchell Johnson had waited a shade under half an hour to to move beyond his score of four, but he doubles that in fine and muscular style by slog-sweeping Ashwin over mid-wicket for a boundary. The Ausralian lead creeps up to 293 with 15 overs still to play today. \n\n7.14am GMT\n07:14\n\n64th over - Australia 223-6 (Marsh 44, Johnson 4)Did I mention that today\u2019s play has been stretched by an hour due to the delays earlier? It will conclude at 7pm local time, in just under 50 minutes. Out in the middle, Ishant thinks he\u2019s got Marsh trapped in front not playing a shot, but replays confirm what was not immediately obvious to the naked eye - that the ball had pitched outside leg. ", "tags": ["Cricket", "Australia cricket team", "India cricket team", "Australia sport"], "title": "Australia v India: third Test, day four - as it happened"},{"date": "2014-12-19T13:15:31Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia\u2019s tax authorities have ruled that bitcoin transactions are subject to the goods and services tax (GST), suggesting that the cryptocurrency is not likely to be classed as \u201cmoney\u201d in the near future.The ruling mainly applies to Australian businesses running bitcoin exchanges, which let customers trade real money for the digital currency. The decision means that when bitcoin is bought from an exchange, it will have to pay GST on the supply of bitcoin.GST does not usually apply to financial transactions, meaning that a conventional money exchange does not have to charge the tax when Australians buy foreign currency. \u201cA transfer of bitcoin from one entity to another is a \u2018supply\u2019 for GST purposes,\u201d the Australian Tax Office said. \u201cThe exclusion from the definition of supply for supplies of money does not apply to bitcoin because bitcoin is not \u2018money\u2019 for the purposes of the GST Act.\u201dThe tax will make running a bitcoin exchange in Australia an expensive proposition, because it is due on the total amount of bitcoin supplied, rather than on the cut the exchange takes above the market value.However, the way an exchange actually operates will make a difference. Bitcoin \u201ctrading platforms\u201d are liable for much less GST under the new rules. The difference lies in whether the company buys and sells bitcoin itself, or merely facilitates transactions between third parties in a manner akin to a stock exchange. If it is the latter, then GST is only due on the percentage commission the exchange charges - not on the total amount bought.The ruling also complicates transactions involving spending bitcoin, requiring sellers that accept the currency to treat it as a \u201ctaxable supply\u201d, rather than simply money exchanged for goods and services.The office\u2019s rationale for treating bitcoin in this way is that \u201cbitcoin is not a legally recognised universal means of exchange and form of payment by the laws of Australia or the laws of any other country. Therefore, it is not \u2018currency (whether of Australia or of any other country)\u2019 under paragraph (a) of the definition of \u2018money\u2019.\u201dNot every country has decided to treat bitcoin in this way. Britain abolished VAT on bitcoin trades in March, although it avoided declaring bitcoin a currency. Nonetheless, the UK now treats bitcoin almost identically to conventional currencies, and buying bitcoins is no longer subject to VAT.In December, New York state followed suit, ruling that sales tax was not due on purchases of bitcoin, and again avoiding explicitly declaring bitcoin a currency.Australia hinted it would be taking the opposite approach in a draft ruling in August, and businesses have been steeling themselves for the final decision. CoinJar, a bitcoin wallet provider and one of Australia\u2019s largest bitcoin firms, relocated to London in the wake of the draft ruling, while some smaller firms have decided to close.\u2022 Bitcoin is the worst investment of 2014. But can it recover?", "tags": ["Bitcoin", "Technology", "Cryptocurrencies", "E-commerce", "Internet", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Bitcoin hit with tax blow in Australia"},{"date": "2014-12-10T01:01:46Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In order to sign up to our email, you\u2019ll first need to sign in to or create a theguardian.com account.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "The Guardian today - Australia: subscribe by email"},{"date": "2014-12-02T00:15:33Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Australia will cut its funding to the UN Environment Programme (Unep) by more than 80%, it has been reported.The federal government was due to give $1.2m to Unep this year, but will now give just $200,000. The ABC reported $4m would be cut over the next four years.The environment minister, Greg Hunt, said the fund was not a budget priority for the government.\u201cYou\u2019ve always got to make choices in a difficult budget environment. I would imagine that most Australians would think that putting $12m into coral reef protection within our region, and combating illegal logging of the rainforests of the Asia Pacific would be a pretty good investment, rather than $4m for bureaucratic support within the UN system,\u201d Hunt said.Unep was established in 1972 with the aim of promoting environmental sustainability through global action. It relies on contributions from member countries.\u201cClose to 90% of the financing of Unep is voluntary and depends on countries\u2019 goodwill and also their recognition of Unep,\u201d the executive director of the program, Achim Steiner, told the ABC.\u201cYou have to be disappointed [with the funding cut] because clearly the contribution of member states is what enables the Unep to fulfil its mandate and be of service to the global community,\u201d Steiner said.The opposition spokeswoman on foreign affairs, Tanya Plibersek, said: \u201cTony Abbott tried to keep climate change off the G20 agenda, but he failed. That\u2019s because other world leaders know climate change is both an environmental and economic issue.\u201d \u201cThe cuts revealed today just reinforce that when it comes to climate change Tony Abbott is out on his own.\u201dBased on its funding commitments for 2012, Australia ranked 13th globally in its support for Unep. The Netherlands contributed the most, with $10m. The US pledged $6.5m and the UK $5.7m.The foreign minister, Julie Bishop, will soon visit Peru for major international climate talks that have been hailed the best chance in a generation for reaching global climate consensus.The Greens leader, Christine Milne, labelled the funding cut \u201ca slap in the face\u201d. \u201cAustralia is a global pariah on the climate front,\u201d Milne said on Tuesday. \u201cThis sleight of hand is just extraordinary.\u201dShe accused the government of using money taken from Unep to fund its commitment to stop illegal logging of rainforests, made at the World Parks Congress in Sydney in November.\u201cThis is really Australia on a world stage behaving badly on the climate. We are so out of step as a nation with the rest of the world. We are not only risking the environment, but Australia\u2019s standing in the world is seriously diminished by the Abbott government,\u201d Milne said.", "tags": ["Australian politics", "Australia news", "United Nations", "Greg Hunt", "Environment"], "title": "Australia slashes funding for UN Environment Programme"},{"date": "2014-10-31T03:29:16Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The US and Australia have removed sanctions against Fiji following democratic elections.Australia\u2019s foreign minister, Julie Bishop, on Friday began a two-day visit to Fiji, describing it as the start of a new era in the relationship between the two countries. She announced that Australia had lifted all remaining sanctions, including on weapons sales.The US ambassador to Fiji, Frankie Reed, said the US was lifting restrictions on its financial assistance to the Fijian government and exploring opportunities to resume co-operation with Fiji\u2019s military.Fiji\u2019s election in September was the first since military ruler Voreqe (Frank) Bainimarama seized control in a 2006 coup. His Fiji First party won a decisive victory at the polls, completing his transformation from military strongman to civilian leader.Bishop\u2019s visit is the first by any foreign minister since the election. \u201cToday marks the start of a new era in the relationship between Australia and Fiji,\u201d she said.Under the resumption of ties a high commissioner will once again be posted by Australia in Fiji and vice versa. Last week the Pacific Islands Forum announced Fiji was rejoining the regional body after a six-year suspension.The Associated Press and Australian Associated press contributed to this report", "tags": ["Fiji", "Australia news", "US foreign policy", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "US and Australia lift Fiji sanctions"},{"date": "2014-10-22T10:01:58Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Three Guardian Australia journalists took home the Print/Online award at the inaugural Amnesty International Australia Media Awards, for an exclusive investigation which uncovered a serious data protection breach by the Australian immigration department.The award was given to journalists Oliver Laughland, Paul Farrell and Asher Wolf, at a ceremony in Sydney on Tuesday 21 October. Two other Guardian Australia journalists were runners up in separate categories - Andrew Quilty in the Photography category for \u2018Suffering on Two Fronts in Qabaait\u2019, and Paul Daley in the Indigenous category for \u2018The Bone Collectors\u2019Read more here.", "tags": ["Awards", "Awards 2014", "Guardian Australia press office"], "title": "Guardian Australia journalists win Amnesty media award"},{"date": "2014-12-29T08:11:45Z", "country": "australia", "content": "\n\n8.11am GMT\n08:11\n\nThe day in briefWell that was another absorbing day of cricket in this 3rd Test at the MCG. The scene is now set for an equally-compelling finish with Australia in a commanding position - 326 runs ahead - but not entirely certain that this talent-laden Indian batting line-up will fold on day five.Australia started the day by mopping up the Indian tail in clinical style before Chris Rogers (69) nudged, nurdled and occasionally even blasted (yes, you read that right) his way to his fourth consecutive Test half-century and provided the ballast as Australia went about setting a challenging total for the tourists. The Indians pegged them back with a steady flow of wickets though. Shane Watson (17) and Joe Burns (9) fell to loose strokes and Steve Smith (12) to a leg-side trap that had given the Indians no joy previously.Of the Indian bolwers, Yadav (2-73 from 14) was expensive and took wickets from shockers but stuck at his task, Ishant (2-49 from 19) was both probing an occasionally menacing and Ashwin (2-56 off 22) never less than a threat. If India\u2019s batting form of this summer and the feisty spirit in which this series has been played holds true, we\u2019re in for a far more absorbing final day tomorrow than the raw numbers might suggest. Make sure you join us at 10am local time for all the live action. \n\n8.03am GMT\n08:03\n\n75th over - Australia 261-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 8)With all that faffing of the last over, the world\u2019s oldest-looking 24-year-old, Mohammad Shami, will bowl the last over of the day. He starts with some rubbish down the leg side, which suits Ryan Harris just fine in his efforts to chaperone Marsh through to stumps. Harris even sneaks two through mid wicket when Shami fluffs his attempt at an in-swinging yorker. And that is that. Stumps is called on day four and the Australians lead by 326 with a 10am (local time) start tomorrow due to the time lost to weather today. \n\n7.57am GMT\n07:57\n\n74th over - Australia 259-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 6)There\u2019s just six minutes left now until the end of the day\u2019s play but if India are in a hurry to let their bowlers get the maximum opportunity for a dismissal, they\u2019ve got a funny way of showing it. They loll about in the field and at one point the ball - in the process of being passed back towards Yadav - is tossed over Kohli\u2019s head and half-way out to the boundary. Good to see CA offering a $20 adult charge to see the denouement of this Test match tomorrow. #goodvalue\n\n7.53am GMT\n07:53\n\n73rd over - Australia 257-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 5)Ryan Harris isn\u2019t afraid of a bit of hard work and digs in admirably as Ashwin zeroes in around his middle and leg stumps with a series of curling, drifting offies. His defence looks impregnable but it\u2019s effective for now. The maiden also probably comes as a relief to the bowler too. Australia leads by 322. Updated\nat 7.53am GMT\n\n\n7.48am GMT\n07:48\n\n72nd over - Australia 257-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 5)Yadav produces a maiden to Marsh. Six balls, no runs. Fancy that. KFC Trivia: What will Brayshaw call cricket balls in this commentary stint? A) Cherries B) Nuts C) Tomatoes D) Mogwais #ChannelNineNonsense\n\n7.43am GMT\n07:43\n\n71st over - Australia 257-7 (Marsh 62, Harris 5)The other thing that this recent onslaught has achieved for Australia, aside from the obvious, is that it\u2019s blunted Ashwin\u2019s influence as he\u2019s reactively tended towards a flatter and faster trajectory. That\u2019s a big win for the home side. Updated\nat 7.44am GMT\n\n\n7.41am GMT\n07:41\n\n70th over - Australia 255-7 (Marsh 61, Harris 4)Marsh is in charge now. He gets the strike back from Harris, digs out a yorker and then pummels Shami for a pair of wonderful boundaries through cover. He struggled to the 40s and made batting look like learning Sanskrit, but now I\u2019m convincing myself he\u2019s on for a ton. Can Harris hang around? Is there enough time? Australia leads by 320.\n\n7.37am GMT\n07:37\n\n69th over - Australia 246-7 (Marsh 53, Harris 3)Whoooof!! Out of nowhere, Shaun Marsh explodes into action by advancing down the track to Ashwin and thumping the spinner over long-on for six to bring up a determined half-century. India need to be careful here because Harris is no slouch, as his first-innings 74 would attest. I remember watching him play as a genuine all-rounder for the Redbacks in the late 90s. What a time that was. I wasn\u2019t even receding yet. @rustyjacko When one leaves a game then returns, one's perspective is different from those who have watched it. Aus look MILES ahead to me!But I\u2019ve seen things, Gary. I\u2019ve seen things. \n\n7.32am GMT\n07:32\n\n68th over - Australia 236-7 (Marsh 44, Harris 2)Rahane thinks he has another catch at leg gully from Harris but Kumar Dharmasena makes another judicious call, rightly identifying that it had come off the batsman\u2019s hip. The Australian lead edges past 300 with 2 to Harris. Robert Wilson is on the mark, as usual. \u201cThere\u2019s been so much sub-Beckett gloom about the evils of IPL and the death-throes of tests in the last couple of years. With this game setting up beautifully for the last day, that lovely NZ win and the W.Indies currently showing some wherewithal, may I just say that the death throes seem quite vigorous and entertaining?\u201dYes, you certainly can.\n\n7.29am GMT\n07:29\n\nShami strikes with a a slower-ball bouncer, tying Johnson up and drawing a false stroke that bobbles up in the air to Rahane at mid-wicket. The Australian lead now sits at 299 and there is a lot of feeling out in the middle. Johnson appears to have words to Kohli and perhaps Ishant on the way off. No surprises there, though probably not a great idea on the part of the tourists if the Gabba is anything to go by. \n\n7.25am GMT\n07:25\n\n67th over - Australia 234-6 (Marsh 44, Johnson 15)Ashwin and Dhoni have conspired to place two men in the deep, straight, to Johnson. That almost brings about a wicket when the Aussie moves down the track and biffs another flat, fearsome drive but it skids through to Murali Vijay from a single bounce, never rising greatly above head height.\n\n7.22am GMT\n07:22\n\n66th over - Australia 233-6 (Marsh 44, Johnson 14)Johnson might have been unshackled by that boundary off Ashwin because he unleashes a thunderous blow off Shami here too, a cross-bat mow that almost kills both the bowler and Umpire Kumar Dharmasena. That breeds some trepidation among the fielding side as well and there\u2019s a fumble in the field next up to gift him a single. I haven\u2019t mentioned it yet, but how magnificent has it been to have Bill Lawry back for what is now a kind of bittersweet Christmas present to cricket lovers?I'll never get tired of Bill Lawry saying 'he hit it as clean as a whistle' #AUSvIND\n\n7.17am GMT\n07:17\n\n65th over - Australia 228-6 (Marsh 44, Johnson 9)Mitchell Johnson had waited a shade under half an hour to to move beyond his score of four, but he doubles that in fine and muscular style by slog-sweeping Ashwin over mid-wicket for a boundary. The Ausralian lead creeps up to 293 with 15 overs still to play today. \n\n7.14am GMT\n07:14\n\n64th over - Australia 223-6 (Marsh 44, Johnson 4)Did I mention that today\u2019s play has been stretched by an hour due to the delays earlier? It will conclude at 7pm local time, in just under 50 minutes. Out in the middle, Ishant thinks he\u2019s got Marsh trapped in front not playing a shot, but replays confirm what was not immediately obvious to the naked eye - that the ball had pitched outside leg. ", "tags": ["Cricket", "Australia cricket team", "India cricket team", "Australia sport"], "title": "Australia v India: third Test, day four - as it happened"},{"date": "2014-12-29T05:53:31Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A 17-year-old boy has died after being attacked by a shark off a beach near Albany, on the West Australian south coast.The teenager was in an area off Cheynes beach, about 65km east of Albany, at 12.20pm on Monday when he was bitten.\u201cBased on information we have been able to gather so far, it appears the deceased was diving and/or spear fishing in the area, with another person nearby,\u201d a police spokesman said.\u201cIt is believed a shark approached both of them, and at that time the deceased appears to have received a shark bite injury.\u201dDepartment of Fisheries acting director general, Dr Rick Fletcher, told a later press conference that initial reports indicated that the shark swam past one of the fishermen and bit the other on the leg, causing fatal injuries.He said the two divers had already caught some fish, which may have attracted the shark. \u201cThis is obviously an extremely tragic event for all the families involved and our sympathies go out to those particular families,\u201d he said. \u201cWe\u2019re not looking to speculate at this stage on any of the details.\u201dFletcher said Fisheries staff had been unable to confirm reports from another fisherman that he had seen a white shark in the area, but he said the description provided by the surviving diver, coupled with the size of the bite on the deceased boy\u2019s leg, indicated it was a white shark. \u201cFrom the reports and the advice we have about the injuries it appears it was a very large shark, probably four to five metres, and probably a white shark,\u201d he said.\u201cIt was a large part of his leg and he was a large person, therefore it was a large shark.\u201dFletcher said it was possible the shark had been speared by one of the divers during the attack, and may be injured.Two fisheries boats were searching the area for the shark on Monday afternoon and drumlines were deployed. They are also scouring the beach for signs of an injured or deceased shark.Fletcher said fisheries staff were searching for a white shark, and would assume they had caught the shark responsible if it was of the right species.He responded to a question about criticisms of WA\u2019s controversial catch and kill policy, which allows the culling of any shark considered to be a \u201cserious threat\u201d, by saying \u201cwe\u2019re not going to discuss policy at this stage.\u201d\u201cThis is purely operational and we\u2019ll try to do what we need to do right now,\u201d he said.Earlier the mayor of Albany shire, Dennis Wellington, said he understood the attack had occurred at a popular fishing spot known as Three Stripes, near the bluff at the southern end of Cheyne beach.Wellington said the two fishermen were 40 metres off shore, in an area that is already 38 metres deep, and were fishing while free diving.\u201cThere was a report of a white pointer around that place earlier and one fisherman tried to warn the others,\u201d he said. \u201cUnfortunately it appears he was too late.\u201dRangers from the shire of Albany have closed Cheynes beach until further notice.The Department of Fisheries advised beachgoers to adhere to any beach closures and follow the latest shark sightings on SharkSmart.com.au, or on the Surf Life Saving WA twitter feed.According to the SharkSmart website, there had been no reported sightings of a shark within 400km of Cheynes Beach for the past 30 days.But the ABC reported that local surfers have talked about a shark swimming in the area in recent days.An employee at Cheynes Beach Caravan Park told Guardian Australia the only shark sighting in the area had been of a bronze whaler in the week before Christmas.The sighting was reported at the general store, which is operated at the caravan park. But the employee, who did not wish to be named, said Cheynes beach was \u201cnot a great shark area\u201d.\u201cWe have had two dead whales that washed up on the beach this year or last year and Fisheries were trying to use them to lure sharks to the area to tag them \u2013 they went away empty handed,\u201d she said. The park is full to capacity for the week leading up to New Year\u2019s Eve, and the employee, who did not wish to be named, said most people would have been at the beach today.Cheynes beach is a popular camping spot on West Australia\u2019s south coast. It is about 480km from Esperance where 23-year-old Sean Pollard was attacked by what were believed to have been two great white sharks on 2 October.Pollard survived the attack but lost an arm and a hand.", "tags": ["Western Australia", "Sharks", "Marine life", "Animals", "Environment", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Teenager dies after shark attack in Western Australia"},{"date": "2015-03-11T03:32:05Z", "country": "australia", "content": "1829 Settlement declared in Western Australia, making Aboriginal people subject to British law. Aboriginal resistance results in a series of raids and reprisal attacks, particularly in the 1830s. 1905 Western Australia introduces the Aborigines Act, allowing the forcible removal of children and the corralling of Aboriginal people on to reserves and making the \u201cchief protector of Aborigines\u201d the legal guardian of every Aboriginal person in the state.1967 A national referendum is held to remove discriminatory clauses in the Australian constitution which excluded Aboriginal people from the commonwealth\u2019s obligation to legislate for the benefit of its citizens and excluded Aboriginal people from being counted in the population.1969 The equal wage decision comes into force in the Australian cattle industry, foreshadowed by the mass eviction of Aboriginal people from pastoral stations in northern Australia.1974 The Whitlam government establishes the Aboriginal Land Fund to allow Aboriginal corporations to acquire interests in and occupy land, as part of its \u201cself-determination\u201d policy. The year before all states, except Queensland, relinquished their special responsibilities for Aboriginal communities to the commonwealth.1992 The Australian high court hands down the Mabo v Queensland (no.2) decision that rejects terra nullius and recognised the existence of native title in Australian common law. The decision is put into law in the Native Title Act 1993.2014 The Australian government puts responsibility for funding essential services in Aboriginal communities back on the states. The Western Australian government responds by saying it could not afford to support all 274 remote communities in its state, and that up to 150 communities which were \u201cnot viable\u201d faced \u201cclosure\u201d.", "tags": ["Indigenous Australians", "Australia news", "Western Australia"], "title": "Aboriginal land rights in Western Australia \u2013\u00a0timeline"},{"date": "2015-03-11T03:32:05Z", "country": "australia", "content": "1829 Settlement declared in Western Australia, making Aboriginal people subject to British law. Aboriginal resistance results in a series of raids and reprisal attacks, particularly in the 1830s. 1905 Western Australia introduces the Aborigines Act, allowing the forcible removal of children and the corralling of Aboriginal people on to reserves and making the \u201cchief protector of Aborigines\u201d the legal guardian of every Aboriginal person in the state.1967 A national referendum is held to remove discriminatory clauses in the Australian constitution which excluded Aboriginal people from the commonwealth\u2019s obligation to legislate for the benefit of its citizens and excluded Aboriginal people from being counted in the population.1969 The equal wage decision comes into force in the Australian cattle industry, foreshadowed by the mass eviction of Aboriginal people from pastoral stations in northern Australia.1974 The Whitlam government establishes the Aboriginal Land Fund to allow Aboriginal corporations to acquire interests in and occupy land, as part of its \u201cself-determination\u201d policy. The year before all states, except Queensland, relinquished their special responsibilities for Aboriginal communities to the commonwealth.1992 The Australian high court hands down the Mabo v Queensland (no.2) decision that rejects terra nullius and recognised the existence of native title in Australian common law. The decision is put into law in the Native Title Act 1993.2014 The Australian government puts responsibility for funding essential services in Aboriginal communities back on the states. The Western Australian government responds by saying it could not afford to support all 274 remote communities in its state, and that up to 150 communities which were \u201cnot viable\u201d faced \u201cclosure\u201d.", "tags": ["Indigenous Australians", "Australia news", "Western Australia"], "title": "Aboriginal land rights in Western Australia \u2013\u00a0timeline"},{"date": "2015-02-06T07:20:47Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A large bushfire that has burned more than 80,0000 hectares of forest and private land in Western Australia\u2019s south west has been declared a national disaster.The fire near Northcliffe 350km south of Perth has been burning for seven days and forced the evacuation of the town on Tuesday.On Friday, the state\u2019s premier, Colin Barnett, told a community meeting in Pemberton, about 30km north of Northcliffe, that the fire had been declared a natural disaster, meaning the area would be eligible for state and federal assistance. The assistance will include personal hardship grants, financial assistance to local government, and interest rate subsidies for small businesses and primary producers who have been directly impacted by the fire.About 40 people spent Thursday night in the Pemberton evacuation centre after being asked to leave Northcliffe.The ABC reported that incident controller Roger Armstrong told the meeting that people could be allowed to return to their homes in Northcliffe \u201csometime in the next 24 to 36 hours\u201d.\u201cWe have to make sure all the access, power infrastructure and so on is safe before we let you in,\u201d Armstrong said. The area was still under an emergency alert on Friday but the threat was less severe.Firefighters took advantage of cooler conditions and light rainfall on Friday morning to strengthen containment lines around the fire\u2019s 270km perimeter.Russell Jones, media liaison officer with the Department of Fire and Emergency Services, said firefighters were particularly concerned about two patches on the fire\u2019s northern flank and one on the eastern flank on Friday morning, but were unable to back-burn because of the rain. Jones said firefighters were hopeful of \u201cgood news from local weather\u201d on Saturday and Sunday, despite forecast temperatures of up to 40C on Sunday.But he said the hot and humid conditions would add to firefighter fatigue. About 130 Victorian firefighters arrived to relieve West Australian volunteers on Thursday, after some local volunteers pulled 30-hour shifts. More firefighters from New South Wales are expected to arrive on Saturday.The fire department declared a total fire ban across all southern and central areas of Western Australia on Friday, citing \u201cstrain on firefighting resources\u201d.Jones said about 200 firefighters and 60 support staff were working on the fire on Friday, but only 100 were on the front line. Firefighters are camping in a tent city built by Australian defence force troops in Manjimup.The fire has destroyed two houses and five sheds, and caused a number of roads to buckle. Perth was blanketed by smoke from a second large fire at Boddington, about 130km south of the city, on Friday.Smoke from the 50,000ha fire was reported as far north as Geraldton, 534km away.The fire has destroyed the historic Long Gully Bridge on the 1,000km-long Bibbulmun Track at Dwellingup, as well as a house and several sheds.The state\u2019s Department of Parks and Wildlife confirmed the loss on Facebook on Friday. The 128m-long trestle bridge was built by WA Government Railways in 1949. In recent years it has been used by walkers crossing the Murray river on the Bibbulmun track, which runs from Albany to the Perth Hills.", "tags": ["Western Australia", "Bushfires", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Western Australia fire declared a national disaster"},{"date": "2015-03-11T03:32:05Z", "country": "australia", "content": "1829 Settlement declared in Western Australia, making Aboriginal people subject to British law. Aboriginal resistance results in a series of raids and reprisal attacks, particularly in the 1830s. 1905 Western Australia introduces the Aborigines Act, allowing the forcible removal of children and the corralling of Aboriginal people on to reserves and making the \u201cchief protector of Aborigines\u201d the legal guardian of every Aboriginal person in the state.1967 A national referendum is held to remove discriminatory clauses in the Australian constitution which excluded Aboriginal people from the commonwealth\u2019s obligation to legislate for the benefit of its citizens and excluded Aboriginal people from being counted in the population.1969 The equal wage decision comes into force in the Australian cattle industry, foreshadowed by the mass eviction of Aboriginal people from pastoral stations in northern Australia.1974 The Whitlam government establishes the Aboriginal Land Fund to allow Aboriginal corporations to acquire interests in and occupy land, as part of its \u201cself-determination\u201d policy. The year before all states, except Queensland, relinquished their special responsibilities for Aboriginal communities to the commonwealth.1992 The Australian high court hands down the Mabo v Queensland (no.2) decision that rejects terra nullius and recognised the existence of native title in Australian common law. The decision is put into law in the Native Title Act 1993.2014 The Australian government puts responsibility for funding essential services in Aboriginal communities back on the states. The Western Australian government responds by saying it could not afford to support all 274 remote communities in its state, and that up to 150 communities which were \u201cnot viable\u201d faced \u201cclosure\u201d.", "tags": ["Indigenous Australians", "Australia news", "Western Australia"], "title": "Aboriginal land rights in Western Australia \u2013\u00a0timeline"},{"date": "2015-02-06T07:20:47Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A large bushfire that has burned more than 80,0000 hectares of forest and private land in Western Australia\u2019s south west has been declared a national disaster.The fire near Northcliffe 350km south of Perth has been burning for seven days and forced the evacuation of the town on Tuesday.On Friday, the state\u2019s premier, Colin Barnett, told a community meeting in Pemberton, about 30km north of Northcliffe, that the fire had been declared a natural disaster, meaning the area would be eligible for state and federal assistance. The assistance will include personal hardship grants, financial assistance to local government, and interest rate subsidies for small businesses and primary producers who have been directly impacted by the fire.About 40 people spent Thursday night in the Pemberton evacuation centre after being asked to leave Northcliffe.The ABC reported that incident controller Roger Armstrong told the meeting that people could be allowed to return to their homes in Northcliffe \u201csometime in the next 24 to 36 hours\u201d.\u201cWe have to make sure all the access, power infrastructure and so on is safe before we let you in,\u201d Armstrong said. The area was still under an emergency alert on Friday but the threat was less severe.Firefighters took advantage of cooler conditions and light rainfall on Friday morning to strengthen containment lines around the fire\u2019s 270km perimeter.Russell Jones, media liaison officer with the Department of Fire and Emergency Services, said firefighters were particularly concerned about two patches on the fire\u2019s northern flank and one on the eastern flank on Friday morning, but were unable to back-burn because of the rain. Jones said firefighters were hopeful of \u201cgood news from local weather\u201d on Saturday and Sunday, despite forecast temperatures of up to 40C on Sunday.But he said the hot and humid conditions would add to firefighter fatigue. About 130 Victorian firefighters arrived to relieve West Australian volunteers on Thursday, after some local volunteers pulled 30-hour shifts. More firefighters from New South Wales are expected to arrive on Saturday.The fire department declared a total fire ban across all southern and central areas of Western Australia on Friday, citing \u201cstrain on firefighting resources\u201d.Jones said about 200 firefighters and 60 support staff were working on the fire on Friday, but only 100 were on the front line. Firefighters are camping in a tent city built by Australian defence force troops in Manjimup.The fire has destroyed two houses and five sheds, and caused a number of roads to buckle. Perth was blanketed by smoke from a second large fire at Boddington, about 130km south of the city, on Friday.Smoke from the 50,000ha fire was reported as far north as Geraldton, 534km away.The fire has destroyed the historic Long Gully Bridge on the 1,000km-long Bibbulmun Track at Dwellingup, as well as a house and several sheds.The state\u2019s Department of Parks and Wildlife confirmed the loss on Facebook on Friday. The 128m-long trestle bridge was built by WA Government Railways in 1949. In recent years it has been used by walkers crossing the Murray river on the Bibbulmun track, which runs from Albany to the Perth Hills.", "tags": ["Western Australia", "Bushfires", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Western Australia fire declared a national disaster"},{"date": "2015-01-06T14:00:02Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The road, the day, the night, everything felt upside down. The Australian way could be felt in every breath we took and the warmth of the outback wrapped us with a sense of safety. In the car, we stared at\u00a0the\u00a0never-ending white line that divided the road and drew out as the only landmark possible to follow.The longer we drove, the deeper our eyes would sink into that never-ending line, leading us somewhere between the infinity of the sky and the ground of fire. Red dust and burning air, nothing else \u2013 nothing more but the sun, the sky, the dust and their primary colours.The day starts at 4.30 in the morning and ends around 7.30 in the evening. Real explorers always wake up with the sun and fall asleep with the moon. Each day was a new adventure, a road trip towards the discovery of this fascinating land. And each day would start exactly the same: sunglasses on, sunscreen on and \u2013 the most important of all \u2013 net on. This would actually be the only place in the world where you would want to put a net over your head in order to avoid swallowing a kilo of flies per day, and probably the only place where you would pay $18 for one of these nets.However, as explorers, we were ready to accept all the challengesthat might come along \u2013 for instance, taking a shower in lost iron cabins with giant frogs for company, or eating cans of tuna \u2013 on top of the copious fly dish \u2013 three times a day, for they were the only food that would not boil in the trunk.As the night fell, it brought the sweet relief of fresh air in the furnace that was our car and home for that week. The only lights that could show us the way were now the stars, which seemed multiplied in the nudity of the sky. In the immensity of the land, everything was amplified.Silence had never been that noisy. We did not feel alone any more; we had never been so aware of everything that surrounded us. Dingoes, frogs, snakes, mosquitoes. Yes, mosquitoes. They were the ghosts of our nights, invisible but audible, and the vampires of our adventure, sucking our blood for as long as the night might last. More than any wild creature that was living out there, they were the scariest.Each night was a battle for our survival in this land of wilderness and danger, won by the swatting of what had seemed to be a billion mosquitoes. In the morning, most of our blood would then be found on our mottled clothes, on the flecked roof, in every spot the fight between the devilish mosquitoes and our poor European human nature had happened. As the sun rose up, its rays would greet us with that wonderful feeling of peace and loneliness again.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Australia news"], "title": "Letter from Australia: line of fire"},{"date": "2015-03-11T03:32:05Z", "country": "australia", "content": "1829 Settlement declared in Western Australia, making Aboriginal people subject to British law. Aboriginal resistance results in a series of raids and reprisal attacks, particularly in the 1830s. 1905 Western Australia introduces the Aborigines Act, allowing the forcible removal of children and the corralling of Aboriginal people on to reserves and making the \u201cchief protector of Aborigines\u201d the legal guardian of every Aboriginal person in the state.1967 A national referendum is held to remove discriminatory clauses in the Australian constitution which excluded Aboriginal people from the commonwealth\u2019s obligation to legislate for the benefit of its citizens and excluded Aboriginal people from being counted in the population.1969 The equal wage decision comes into force in the Australian cattle industry, foreshadowed by the mass eviction of Aboriginal people from pastoral stations in northern Australia.1974 The Whitlam government establishes the Aboriginal Land Fund to allow Aboriginal corporations to acquire interests in and occupy land, as part of its \u201cself-determination\u201d policy. The year before all states, except Queensland, relinquished their special responsibilities for Aboriginal communities to the commonwealth.1992 The Australian high court hands down the Mabo v Queensland (no.2) decision that rejects terra nullius and recognised the existence of native title in Australian common law. The decision is put into law in the Native Title Act 1993.2014 The Australian government puts responsibility for funding essential services in Aboriginal communities back on the states. The Western Australian government responds by saying it could not afford to support all 274 remote communities in its state, and that up to 150 communities which were \u201cnot viable\u201d faced \u201cclosure\u201d.", "tags": ["Indigenous Australians", "Australia news", "Western Australia"], "title": "Aboriginal land rights in Western Australia \u2013\u00a0timeline"},{"date": "2015-02-06T07:20:47Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A large bushfire that has burned more than 80,0000 hectares of forest and private land in Western Australia\u2019s south west has been declared a national disaster.The fire near Northcliffe 350km south of Perth has been burning for seven days and forced the evacuation of the town on Tuesday.On Friday, the state\u2019s premier, Colin Barnett, told a community meeting in Pemberton, about 30km north of Northcliffe, that the fire had been declared a natural disaster, meaning the area would be eligible for state and federal assistance. The assistance will include personal hardship grants, financial assistance to local government, and interest rate subsidies for small businesses and primary producers who have been directly impacted by the fire.About 40 people spent Thursday night in the Pemberton evacuation centre after being asked to leave Northcliffe.The ABC reported that incident controller Roger Armstrong told the meeting that people could be allowed to return to their homes in Northcliffe \u201csometime in the next 24 to 36 hours\u201d.\u201cWe have to make sure all the access, power infrastructure and so on is safe before we let you in,\u201d Armstrong said. The area was still under an emergency alert on Friday but the threat was less severe.Firefighters took advantage of cooler conditions and light rainfall on Friday morning to strengthen containment lines around the fire\u2019s 270km perimeter.Russell Jones, media liaison officer with the Department of Fire and Emergency Services, said firefighters were particularly concerned about two patches on the fire\u2019s northern flank and one on the eastern flank on Friday morning, but were unable to back-burn because of the rain. Jones said firefighters were hopeful of \u201cgood news from local weather\u201d on Saturday and Sunday, despite forecast temperatures of up to 40C on Sunday.But he said the hot and humid conditions would add to firefighter fatigue. About 130 Victorian firefighters arrived to relieve West Australian volunteers on Thursday, after some local volunteers pulled 30-hour shifts. More firefighters from New South Wales are expected to arrive on Saturday.The fire department declared a total fire ban across all southern and central areas of Western Australia on Friday, citing \u201cstrain on firefighting resources\u201d.Jones said about 200 firefighters and 60 support staff were working on the fire on Friday, but only 100 were on the front line. Firefighters are camping in a tent city built by Australian defence force troops in Manjimup.The fire has destroyed two houses and five sheds, and caused a number of roads to buckle. Perth was blanketed by smoke from a second large fire at Boddington, about 130km south of the city, on Friday.Smoke from the 50,000ha fire was reported as far north as Geraldton, 534km away.The fire has destroyed the historic Long Gully Bridge on the 1,000km-long Bibbulmun Track at Dwellingup, as well as a house and several sheds.The state\u2019s Department of Parks and Wildlife confirmed the loss on Facebook on Friday. The 128m-long trestle bridge was built by WA Government Railways in 1949. In recent years it has been used by walkers crossing the Murray river on the Bibbulmun track, which runs from Albany to the Perth Hills.", "tags": ["Western Australia", "Bushfires", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Western Australia fire declared a national disaster"},{"date": "2015-01-06T14:00:02Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The road, the day, the night, everything felt upside down. The Australian way could be felt in every breath we took and the warmth of the outback wrapped us with a sense of safety. In the car, we stared at\u00a0the\u00a0never-ending white line that divided the road and drew out as the only landmark possible to follow.The longer we drove, the deeper our eyes would sink into that never-ending line, leading us somewhere between the infinity of the sky and the ground of fire. Red dust and burning air, nothing else \u2013 nothing more but the sun, the sky, the dust and their primary colours.The day starts at 4.30 in the morning and ends around 7.30 in the evening. Real explorers always wake up with the sun and fall asleep with the moon. Each day was a new adventure, a road trip towards the discovery of this fascinating land. And each day would start exactly the same: sunglasses on, sunscreen on and \u2013 the most important of all \u2013 net on. This would actually be the only place in the world where you would want to put a net over your head in order to avoid swallowing a kilo of flies per day, and probably the only place where you would pay $18 for one of these nets.However, as explorers, we were ready to accept all the challengesthat might come along \u2013 for instance, taking a shower in lost iron cabins with giant frogs for company, or eating cans of tuna \u2013 on top of the copious fly dish \u2013 three times a day, for they were the only food that would not boil in the trunk.As the night fell, it brought the sweet relief of fresh air in the furnace that was our car and home for that week. The only lights that could show us the way were now the stars, which seemed multiplied in the nudity of the sky. In the immensity of the land, everything was amplified.Silence had never been that noisy. We did not feel alone any more; we had never been so aware of everything that surrounded us. Dingoes, frogs, snakes, mosquitoes. Yes, mosquitoes. They were the ghosts of our nights, invisible but audible, and the vampires of our adventure, sucking our blood for as long as the night might last. More than any wild creature that was living out there, they were the scariest.Each night was a battle for our survival in this land of wilderness and danger, won by the swatting of what had seemed to be a billion mosquitoes. In the morning, most of our blood would then be found on our mottled clothes, on the flecked roof, in every spot the fight between the devilish mosquitoes and our poor European human nature had happened. As the sun rose up, its rays would greet us with that wonderful feeling of peace and loneliness again.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Australia news"], "title": "Letter from Australia: line of fire"},{"date": "2015-03-28T21:51:24Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Abbott government has elected to begin the process of joining the China-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank \u2013 but is still telegraphing concerns about the structure of the organisation.China launched the $100bn proposal last year and more than 20 countries have announced their intention to be founding members.There have been different views within the cabinet about whether Australia should join the institution. The United States has been distinctly cool on the proposal which, given its resources and membership, could ultimately rival other global financial institutions, like the World Bank.When Britain joined the AIIB in mid March, the White House issued a rare public rebuke, declaring its hope and expectation that the UK would use its influence to ensure that high standards of governance are upheld. The US sees the AIIB as a vehicle for China to exert influence in the region.The spectrum of cabinet views have prompted Australia to appear first supportive, then cool, then, over the past fortnight, supportive once again.Last week the prime minister Tony Abbott told reporters he was in discussions with the United States and with Japan about Australia joining the AIIB.The statement issued by the prime minister, Tony Abbott, the foreign minister, Julie Bishop, and the treasurer, Joe Hockey, early on Sunday, was still hedged.Australia would sign a memorandum of understanding on the AIIB \u201cwhich would allow Australia to participate as a prospective founding member in negotiations to set up the bank.\u201d\u201cThe government has discussed the AIIB extensively with China and other key partners inside and outside the region,\u201d the joint statement said.\u201cGood progress has been made on the bank\u2019s design, governance and transparency over the past few months, but we still have issues that we will address through ongoing consultations,\u201d it said.\u201cKey matters to be resolved before Australia considers joining the AIIB include the bank\u2019s board of directors having authority over key investment decisions, and that no one country control the bank.\u201d ", "tags": ["Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank", "Business", "Global economy", "Australia news", "China", "Australian economy", "Asia Pacific", "Economics", "World news", "US news"], "title": "Australia confirms it will join China's Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank"},{"date": "2015-03-11T03:32:05Z", "country": "australia", "content": "1829 Settlement declared in Western Australia, making Aboriginal people subject to British law. Aboriginal resistance results in a series of raids and reprisal attacks, particularly in the 1830s. 1905 Western Australia introduces the Aborigines Act, allowing the forcible removal of children and the corralling of Aboriginal people on to reserves and making the \u201cchief protector of Aborigines\u201d the legal guardian of every Aboriginal person in the state.1967 A national referendum is held to remove discriminatory clauses in the Australian constitution which excluded Aboriginal people from the commonwealth\u2019s obligation to legislate for the benefit of its citizens and excluded Aboriginal people from being counted in the population.1969 The equal wage decision comes into force in the Australian cattle industry, foreshadowed by the mass eviction of Aboriginal people from pastoral stations in northern Australia.1974 The Whitlam government establishes the Aboriginal Land Fund to allow Aboriginal corporations to acquire interests in and occupy land, as part of its \u201cself-determination\u201d policy. The year before all states, except Queensland, relinquished their special responsibilities for Aboriginal communities to the commonwealth.1992 The Australian high court hands down the Mabo v Queensland (no.2) decision that rejects terra nullius and recognised the existence of native title in Australian common law. The decision is put into law in the Native Title Act 1993.2014 The Australian government puts responsibility for funding essential services in Aboriginal communities back on the states. The Western Australian government responds by saying it could not afford to support all 274 remote communities in its state, and that up to 150 communities which were \u201cnot viable\u201d faced \u201cclosure\u201d.", "tags": ["Indigenous Australians", "Australia news", "Western Australia"], "title": "Aboriginal land rights in Western Australia \u2013\u00a0timeline"},{"date": "2015-02-06T07:20:47Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A large bushfire that has burned more than 80,0000 hectares of forest and private land in Western Australia\u2019s south west has been declared a national disaster.The fire near Northcliffe 350km south of Perth has been burning for seven days and forced the evacuation of the town on Tuesday.On Friday, the state\u2019s premier, Colin Barnett, told a community meeting in Pemberton, about 30km north of Northcliffe, that the fire had been declared a natural disaster, meaning the area would be eligible for state and federal assistance. The assistance will include personal hardship grants, financial assistance to local government, and interest rate subsidies for small businesses and primary producers who have been directly impacted by the fire.About 40 people spent Thursday night in the Pemberton evacuation centre after being asked to leave Northcliffe.The ABC reported that incident controller Roger Armstrong told the meeting that people could be allowed to return to their homes in Northcliffe \u201csometime in the next 24 to 36 hours\u201d.\u201cWe have to make sure all the access, power infrastructure and so on is safe before we let you in,\u201d Armstrong said. The area was still under an emergency alert on Friday but the threat was less severe.Firefighters took advantage of cooler conditions and light rainfall on Friday morning to strengthen containment lines around the fire\u2019s 270km perimeter.Russell Jones, media liaison officer with the Department of Fire and Emergency Services, said firefighters were particularly concerned about two patches on the fire\u2019s northern flank and one on the eastern flank on Friday morning, but were unable to back-burn because of the rain. Jones said firefighters were hopeful of \u201cgood news from local weather\u201d on Saturday and Sunday, despite forecast temperatures of up to 40C on Sunday.But he said the hot and humid conditions would add to firefighter fatigue. About 130 Victorian firefighters arrived to relieve West Australian volunteers on Thursday, after some local volunteers pulled 30-hour shifts. More firefighters from New South Wales are expected to arrive on Saturday.The fire department declared a total fire ban across all southern and central areas of Western Australia on Friday, citing \u201cstrain on firefighting resources\u201d.Jones said about 200 firefighters and 60 support staff were working on the fire on Friday, but only 100 were on the front line. Firefighters are camping in a tent city built by Australian defence force troops in Manjimup.The fire has destroyed two houses and five sheds, and caused a number of roads to buckle. Perth was blanketed by smoke from a second large fire at Boddington, about 130km south of the city, on Friday.Smoke from the 50,000ha fire was reported as far north as Geraldton, 534km away.The fire has destroyed the historic Long Gully Bridge on the 1,000km-long Bibbulmun Track at Dwellingup, as well as a house and several sheds.The state\u2019s Department of Parks and Wildlife confirmed the loss on Facebook on Friday. The 128m-long trestle bridge was built by WA Government Railways in 1949. In recent years it has been used by walkers crossing the Murray river on the Bibbulmun track, which runs from Albany to the Perth Hills.", "tags": ["Western Australia", "Bushfires", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Western Australia fire declared a national disaster"},{"date": "2015-01-06T14:00:02Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The road, the day, the night, everything felt upside down. The Australian way could be felt in every breath we took and the warmth of the outback wrapped us with a sense of safety. In the car, we stared at\u00a0the\u00a0never-ending white line that divided the road and drew out as the only landmark possible to follow.The longer we drove, the deeper our eyes would sink into that never-ending line, leading us somewhere between the infinity of the sky and the ground of fire. Red dust and burning air, nothing else \u2013 nothing more but the sun, the sky, the dust and their primary colours.The day starts at 4.30 in the morning and ends around 7.30 in the evening. Real explorers always wake up with the sun and fall asleep with the moon. Each day was a new adventure, a road trip towards the discovery of this fascinating land. And each day would start exactly the same: sunglasses on, sunscreen on and \u2013 the most important of all \u2013 net on. This would actually be the only place in the world where you would want to put a net over your head in order to avoid swallowing a kilo of flies per day, and probably the only place where you would pay $18 for one of these nets.However, as explorers, we were ready to accept all the challengesthat might come along \u2013 for instance, taking a shower in lost iron cabins with giant frogs for company, or eating cans of tuna \u2013 on top of the copious fly dish \u2013 three times a day, for they were the only food that would not boil in the trunk.As the night fell, it brought the sweet relief of fresh air in the furnace that was our car and home for that week. The only lights that could show us the way were now the stars, which seemed multiplied in the nudity of the sky. In the immensity of the land, everything was amplified.Silence had never been that noisy. We did not feel alone any more; we had never been so aware of everything that surrounded us. Dingoes, frogs, snakes, mosquitoes. Yes, mosquitoes. They were the ghosts of our nights, invisible but audible, and the vampires of our adventure, sucking our blood for as long as the night might last. More than any wild creature that was living out there, they were the scariest.Each night was a battle for our survival in this land of wilderness and danger, won by the swatting of what had seemed to be a billion mosquitoes. In the morning, most of our blood would then be found on our mottled clothes, on the flecked roof, in every spot the fight between the devilish mosquitoes and our poor European human nature had happened. As the sun rose up, its rays would greet us with that wonderful feeling of peace and loneliness again.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Australia news"], "title": "Letter from Australia: line of fire"},{"date": "2015-03-28T21:51:24Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Abbott government has elected to begin the process of joining the China-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank \u2013 but is still telegraphing concerns about the structure of the organisation.China launched the $100bn proposal last year and more than 20 countries have announced their intention to be founding members.There have been different views within the cabinet about whether Australia should join the institution. The United States has been distinctly cool on the proposal which, given its resources and membership, could ultimately rival other global financial institutions, like the World Bank.When Britain joined the AIIB in mid March, the White House issued a rare public rebuke, declaring its hope and expectation that the UK would use its influence to ensure that high standards of governance are upheld. The US sees the AIIB as a vehicle for China to exert influence in the region.The spectrum of cabinet views have prompted Australia to appear first supportive, then cool, then, over the past fortnight, supportive once again.Last week the prime minister Tony Abbott told reporters he was in discussions with the United States and with Japan about Australia joining the AIIB.The statement issued by the prime minister, Tony Abbott, the foreign minister, Julie Bishop, and the treasurer, Joe Hockey, early on Sunday, was still hedged.Australia would sign a memorandum of understanding on the AIIB \u201cwhich would allow Australia to participate as a prospective founding member in negotiations to set up the bank.\u201d\u201cThe government has discussed the AIIB extensively with China and other key partners inside and outside the region,\u201d the joint statement said.\u201cGood progress has been made on the bank\u2019s design, governance and transparency over the past few months, but we still have issues that we will address through ongoing consultations,\u201d it said.\u201cKey matters to be resolved before Australia considers joining the AIIB include the bank\u2019s board of directors having authority over key investment decisions, and that no one country control the bank.\u201d ", "tags": ["Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank", "Business", "Global economy", "Australia news", "China", "Australian economy", "Asia Pacific", "Economics", "World news", "US news"], "title": "Australia confirms it will join China's Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank"},{"date": "2015-03-27T14:01:44Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Green party has in the past year gone from fringe party to having more than 55,000 members, overtaking the Liberal Democrats in some polls. Prominent supporters include Jack Monroe, Vivienne Westwood and Russell Brand.In the third in a series of leader interviews before the general election, the Green party leader talks to Phoebe Greenwood about how the threat of climate change and the state of the British economy are interlinked problems, and clears up a few questions about the party\u2019s policies.Bennett, the first Australian-born UK political party leader, says there\u2019s \u201ca very strong strand of anti-intellectual thought in Australian life\u201d and talks of her love of British culture.She was \u201cdevastated\u201d at the time of her famous LBC interview in February. \u201cIf nothing else it proved that I\u2019m human,\u201d she says, \u201cand that I\u2019m not a product of the spin machine.\u201d The reality of life is that you take a knock and have to move on, Bennett argues. She admits that she is doing media training ahead of the leader debates, but denies that she has been instructed to talk less about hedgehogs. \u201cThey are lovely animals and we\u2019re seeing their numbers plummet as a result of the nature of what we\u2019re doing to the British countryside,\u201d she adds.Bennett clarifies which of the policies reported in the tabloid media are in fact true. She says that the Green party is not in favour of unrestricted immigration, but \u201ccontrolled, but humane and fair immigration policy\u201d. The party would encourage the BBC to show educational programmes during prime-time, but it would not be a policy in the manifesto. She stresses that moving the Queen to a council house is \u201cdefinitely not Green party policy\u201d but confirms that the Greens would decriminalise brothels and encourage football clubs to become co-operatives. The Green party-led council in Brighton and Hove has been ranked 302nd out of 326 for its recycling record. The party is focusing on \u201cchanging the direction of travel\u201d in Brighton, Bennett says. She stresses that the Greens are a minority administration and that she is proud of some of its achievements, such as ensuring that all council employees are paid no less than the living wage and that the highest-paid people in the council aren\u2019t paid more than 10 times that of the lowest paid.", "tags": ["Natalie Bennett", "Green party", "General election 2015", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Natalie Bennett talks about brain fades, climate change and Australia"},{"date": "2015-03-11T03:32:05Z", "country": "australia", "content": "1829 Settlement declared in Western Australia, making Aboriginal people subject to British law. Aboriginal resistance results in a series of raids and reprisal attacks, particularly in the 1830s. 1905 Western Australia introduces the Aborigines Act, allowing the forcible removal of children and the corralling of Aboriginal people on to reserves and making the \u201cchief protector of Aborigines\u201d the legal guardian of every Aboriginal person in the state.1967 A national referendum is held to remove discriminatory clauses in the Australian constitution which excluded Aboriginal people from the commonwealth\u2019s obligation to legislate for the benefit of its citizens and excluded Aboriginal people from being counted in the population.1969 The equal wage decision comes into force in the Australian cattle industry, foreshadowed by the mass eviction of Aboriginal people from pastoral stations in northern Australia.1974 The Whitlam government establishes the Aboriginal Land Fund to allow Aboriginal corporations to acquire interests in and occupy land, as part of its \u201cself-determination\u201d policy. The year before all states, except Queensland, relinquished their special responsibilities for Aboriginal communities to the commonwealth.1992 The Australian high court hands down the Mabo v Queensland (no.2) decision that rejects terra nullius and recognised the existence of native title in Australian common law. The decision is put into law in the Native Title Act 1993.2014 The Australian government puts responsibility for funding essential services in Aboriginal communities back on the states. The Western Australian government responds by saying it could not afford to support all 274 remote communities in its state, and that up to 150 communities which were \u201cnot viable\u201d faced \u201cclosure\u201d.", "tags": ["Indigenous Australians", "Australia news", "Western Australia"], "title": "Aboriginal land rights in Western Australia \u2013\u00a0timeline"},{"date": "2015-02-06T07:20:47Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A large bushfire that has burned more than 80,0000 hectares of forest and private land in Western Australia\u2019s south west has been declared a national disaster.The fire near Northcliffe 350km south of Perth has been burning for seven days and forced the evacuation of the town on Tuesday.On Friday, the state\u2019s premier, Colin Barnett, told a community meeting in Pemberton, about 30km north of Northcliffe, that the fire had been declared a natural disaster, meaning the area would be eligible for state and federal assistance. The assistance will include personal hardship grants, financial assistance to local government, and interest rate subsidies for small businesses and primary producers who have been directly impacted by the fire.About 40 people spent Thursday night in the Pemberton evacuation centre after being asked to leave Northcliffe.The ABC reported that incident controller Roger Armstrong told the meeting that people could be allowed to return to their homes in Northcliffe \u201csometime in the next 24 to 36 hours\u201d.\u201cWe have to make sure all the access, power infrastructure and so on is safe before we let you in,\u201d Armstrong said. The area was still under an emergency alert on Friday but the threat was less severe.Firefighters took advantage of cooler conditions and light rainfall on Friday morning to strengthen containment lines around the fire\u2019s 270km perimeter.Russell Jones, media liaison officer with the Department of Fire and Emergency Services, said firefighters were particularly concerned about two patches on the fire\u2019s northern flank and one on the eastern flank on Friday morning, but were unable to back-burn because of the rain. Jones said firefighters were hopeful of \u201cgood news from local weather\u201d on Saturday and Sunday, despite forecast temperatures of up to 40C on Sunday.But he said the hot and humid conditions would add to firefighter fatigue. About 130 Victorian firefighters arrived to relieve West Australian volunteers on Thursday, after some local volunteers pulled 30-hour shifts. More firefighters from New South Wales are expected to arrive on Saturday.The fire department declared a total fire ban across all southern and central areas of Western Australia on Friday, citing \u201cstrain on firefighting resources\u201d.Jones said about 200 firefighters and 60 support staff were working on the fire on Friday, but only 100 were on the front line. Firefighters are camping in a tent city built by Australian defence force troops in Manjimup.The fire has destroyed two houses and five sheds, and caused a number of roads to buckle. Perth was blanketed by smoke from a second large fire at Boddington, about 130km south of the city, on Friday.Smoke from the 50,000ha fire was reported as far north as Geraldton, 534km away.The fire has destroyed the historic Long Gully Bridge on the 1,000km-long Bibbulmun Track at Dwellingup, as well as a house and several sheds.The state\u2019s Department of Parks and Wildlife confirmed the loss on Facebook on Friday. The 128m-long trestle bridge was built by WA Government Railways in 1949. In recent years it has been used by walkers crossing the Murray river on the Bibbulmun track, which runs from Albany to the Perth Hills.", "tags": ["Western Australia", "Bushfires", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Western Australia fire declared a national disaster"},{"date": "2015-01-06T14:00:02Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The road, the day, the night, everything felt upside down. The Australian way could be felt in every breath we took and the warmth of the outback wrapped us with a sense of safety. In the car, we stared at\u00a0the\u00a0never-ending white line that divided the road and drew out as the only landmark possible to follow.The longer we drove, the deeper our eyes would sink into that never-ending line, leading us somewhere between the infinity of the sky and the ground of fire. Red dust and burning air, nothing else \u2013 nothing more but the sun, the sky, the dust and their primary colours.The day starts at 4.30 in the morning and ends around 7.30 in the evening. Real explorers always wake up with the sun and fall asleep with the moon. Each day was a new adventure, a road trip towards the discovery of this fascinating land. And each day would start exactly the same: sunglasses on, sunscreen on and \u2013 the most important of all \u2013 net on. This would actually be the only place in the world where you would want to put a net over your head in order to avoid swallowing a kilo of flies per day, and probably the only place where you would pay $18 for one of these nets.However, as explorers, we were ready to accept all the challengesthat might come along \u2013 for instance, taking a shower in lost iron cabins with giant frogs for company, or eating cans of tuna \u2013 on top of the copious fly dish \u2013 three times a day, for they were the only food that would not boil in the trunk.As the night fell, it brought the sweet relief of fresh air in the furnace that was our car and home for that week. The only lights that could show us the way were now the stars, which seemed multiplied in the nudity of the sky. In the immensity of the land, everything was amplified.Silence had never been that noisy. We did not feel alone any more; we had never been so aware of everything that surrounded us. Dingoes, frogs, snakes, mosquitoes. Yes, mosquitoes. They were the ghosts of our nights, invisible but audible, and the vampires of our adventure, sucking our blood for as long as the night might last. More than any wild creature that was living out there, they were the scariest.Each night was a battle for our survival in this land of wilderness and danger, won by the swatting of what had seemed to be a billion mosquitoes. In the morning, most of our blood would then be found on our mottled clothes, on the flecked roof, in every spot the fight between the devilish mosquitoes and our poor European human nature had happened. As the sun rose up, its rays would greet us with that wonderful feeling of peace and loneliness again.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Australia news"], "title": "Letter from Australia: line of fire"},{"date": "2015-03-28T21:51:24Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Abbott government has elected to begin the process of joining the China-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank \u2013 but is still telegraphing concerns about the structure of the organisation.China launched the $100bn proposal last year and more than 20 countries have announced their intention to be founding members.There have been different views within the cabinet about whether Australia should join the institution. The United States has been distinctly cool on the proposal which, given its resources and membership, could ultimately rival other global financial institutions, like the World Bank.When Britain joined the AIIB in mid March, the White House issued a rare public rebuke, declaring its hope and expectation that the UK would use its influence to ensure that high standards of governance are upheld. The US sees the AIIB as a vehicle for China to exert influence in the region.The spectrum of cabinet views have prompted Australia to appear first supportive, then cool, then, over the past fortnight, supportive once again.Last week the prime minister Tony Abbott told reporters he was in discussions with the United States and with Japan about Australia joining the AIIB.The statement issued by the prime minister, Tony Abbott, the foreign minister, Julie Bishop, and the treasurer, Joe Hockey, early on Sunday, was still hedged.Australia would sign a memorandum of understanding on the AIIB \u201cwhich would allow Australia to participate as a prospective founding member in negotiations to set up the bank.\u201d\u201cThe government has discussed the AIIB extensively with China and other key partners inside and outside the region,\u201d the joint statement said.\u201cGood progress has been made on the bank\u2019s design, governance and transparency over the past few months, but we still have issues that we will address through ongoing consultations,\u201d it said.\u201cKey matters to be resolved before Australia considers joining the AIIB include the bank\u2019s board of directors having authority over key investment decisions, and that no one country control the bank.\u201d ", "tags": ["Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank", "Business", "Global economy", "Australia news", "China", "Australian economy", "Asia Pacific", "Economics", "World news", "US news"], "title": "Australia confirms it will join China's Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank"},{"date": "2015-03-27T14:01:44Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Green party has in the past year gone from fringe party to having more than 55,000 members, overtaking the Liberal Democrats in some polls. Prominent supporters include Jack Monroe, Vivienne Westwood and Russell Brand.In the third in a series of leader interviews before the general election, the Green party leader talks to Phoebe Greenwood about how the threat of climate change and the state of the British economy are interlinked problems, and clears up a few questions about the party\u2019s policies.Bennett, the first Australian-born UK political party leader, says there\u2019s \u201ca very strong strand of anti-intellectual thought in Australian life\u201d and talks of her love of British culture.She was \u201cdevastated\u201d at the time of her famous LBC interview in February. \u201cIf nothing else it proved that I\u2019m human,\u201d she says, \u201cand that I\u2019m not a product of the spin machine.\u201d The reality of life is that you take a knock and have to move on, Bennett argues. She admits that she is doing media training ahead of the leader debates, but denies that she has been instructed to talk less about hedgehogs. \u201cThey are lovely animals and we\u2019re seeing their numbers plummet as a result of the nature of what we\u2019re doing to the British countryside,\u201d she adds.Bennett clarifies which of the policies reported in the tabloid media are in fact true. She says that the Green party is not in favour of unrestricted immigration, but \u201ccontrolled, but humane and fair immigration policy\u201d. The party would encourage the BBC to show educational programmes during prime-time, but it would not be a policy in the manifesto. She stresses that moving the Queen to a council house is \u201cdefinitely not Green party policy\u201d but confirms that the Greens would decriminalise brothels and encourage football clubs to become co-operatives. The Green party-led council in Brighton and Hove has been ranked 302nd out of 326 for its recycling record. The party is focusing on \u201cchanging the direction of travel\u201d in Brighton, Bennett says. She stresses that the Greens are a minority administration and that she is proud of some of its achievements, such as ensuring that all council employees are paid no less than the living wage and that the highest-paid people in the council aren\u2019t paid more than 10 times that of the lowest paid.", "tags": ["Natalie Bennett", "Green party", "General election 2015", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Natalie Bennett talks about brain fades, climate change and Australia"},{"date": "2015-03-27T06:37:13Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Numbat conservationists in Western Australia are appealing against an Environmental Protection Authority decision not to assess a proposal to build a large rubbish tip just 6km from the Dryandra woodlands.The area is home to one of only two populations of the endangered marsupial to have survived colonisation.The proposed 65-hectare waste disposal site is a consolidation of 11 rubbish tips from seven local government areas and is expected to bring in 5,000 tonnes of rubbish a year.But conservationists say the feral animals attracted by the tip \u2013 namely cats and foxes \u2013 would have a devastating impact on native animals in nearby Dryandra, especially the West Australian state emblem, the numbat. That\u2019s of particular concern to a group of four men who call themselves the Numbat Task Force.Once a fortnight, the men pile into two cars, reset their odometers and head into Dryandra woodland, 170km south east of Perth, driving at what the group\u2019s unofficial founder, Sean van Alphen, described as \u201cnumbat speed\u201d \u2013 about 10km an hour.Talking over CB radios, the convoy slows down when they reach a likely patch of vegetation and scan for the tiny marsupials. Spotting a numbat is always worth the hours in the car.\u201cYour next numbat is always the best,\u201d the Task Force\u2019s newest member, Robert MacLean, told Guardian Australia.MacLean and van Alphen give the same answer when asked why they devote hours of their spare time to searching for numbats, carefully cataloguing and photographing every one they find and posting the results on their Facebook page.\u201cHave you seen a numbat in the wild?\u201d MacLean asks. \u201cAs soon as you do you will be doing the same thing. It\u2019s a bit of an addiction.\u201dFor the uninitiated, he explains that, \u201cNumbats are like meerkats but better.\u201d\u201cYou get runners and sitters. Runners just keep on running and that\u2019s all you see, then you get a little sitter and it\u2019s always special because you get to spend a bit of time with them. It\u2019s the sitters that make you the addict.\u201d The task force know the area so well that they have named popular numbat hangouts, as well as most of the numbats themselves.\u201cWe have got the Sheriff, because there\u2019s a little place in Dryandra that we call log city so we have got the Sheriff of Log City, and we can recognise her by sight,\u201d MacLean said.None of the men are conservationists by trade. MacLean drives a meat truck. Van Alphen works for an airline. John Lawson, the only one of the four to live locally, is caretaker of the Dryandra Woodland Village accommodation site.But they have kept detailed records since 1999, and what those records show isn\u2019t good.A sharp decline in the numbat population last decade means days spent driving without success far outweigh the good days. In 2010 they didn\u2019t see a single numbat. So far this year they have had six sightings, but MacLean says four of those were of the same numbat.When Van Alphen started visiting Dryandra in 1992, there were 11.3 numbats per 100km. Last year, the Department of Parks and Wildlife survey found just 0.27 numbats per 100km \u2013 or one every 400km. The population has shrunk from 800 to just 50.Van Alphen said feral cats caused the population crash. With the numbers at such a critical level, anything that attracts more cats to the area \u2013 like the proposed rubbish tip \u2013 could have a devastating effect.\u201cYou could lose 10 of these animals on a bad day,\u201d Van Alphen said. \u201cI think that if something is not down very quickly we are not going to have any numbats left in Dryandra.\u201dNumbats once existed across Australia but were wiped out everywhere bar Dryandra and Perup, which lies 260km south. They are slowly being reintroduced to other areas but Dryandra, as a remnant population, is as valuable as it is vulnerable.Van Alphen said the risk of increased cat predation from the proposed waste disposal centre, which is just 6km from the woodland, was too high.Rubbish tips are known attractors of feral cats, who feed on rodents in the rubbish as well as the rubbish itself. A 2005 University of Sydney study described them as \u201cbiological attraction points around which free-living cats congregate in high densities.\u201d The study said the abundance of food made it difficult to conduct population control as cats, fussy about poison at the best of times, passed up baits for other options.Van Alphen said he was concerned that even the much-touted new Eradicat baits, which have had success in sparser areas of the Wheatbelt during the hungry dry months, would not be as effective in an area so rich in live food.And cats aren\u2019t the only problem. Black rats, previously unrecorded in Dryandra woodland, could be brought in along with rubbish from other tips. Ravens, which mob native animals, are also expected to come.The impact on native animals like numbats and woolies, which have recently been re-listed as endangered, was the key concern raised in public submissions to the development proposal. The Shire of Cuballing has jurisdiction over the proposal. In a meeting on 19 March, it said 56 of the 70 submissions it received raised concerns or objections to the proposal. Just five showed support.Cuballing\u2019s shire president, Mark Conley, said the council has requested further information from the Great Southern Regional Waste Group about how it proposes to manage environmental risks like feral animals and is yet to vote on the proposal.Conley said they were unlikely to receive that information until May.\u201cWe are very concerned about the numbat habitat; we have got to get more information about what the impact will be,\u201d he said. \u201cHowever something that\u2019s overlooked by some people concerned about this is we will be closing two tips that are closer to Dryandra than the proposed waste site.\u201dAn EPA notice published last week said the environmental impact of the proposed tip was \u201cnot so significant as to require assessment\u201d. The Numbat Task Force and Greens MP Lynn MacLaren are both appealing against that decision.\u201cIt is very surprising that the Environmental Protection Authority did not reject, or at least properly assess this tip proposal, which will increase rodent numbers and thus the number of feral predators, especially cats, in Dryandra, and Australian ravens, which prey on numbats,\u201d MacLaren said.MacLean urged the council to consider moving the waste centre, even if the EPA rejects the appeals.\u201cIf we\u2019re wrong about the impact of the tip, there\u2019s no harm done,\u201d he said. But if they are wrong, and the numbats go, it\u2019s a massive price to pay.\u201d", "tags": ["Western Australia", "Animals", "Australia news", "Conservation", "Environment"], "title": "Numbats at risk from proposed Western Australia rubbish tip \u2013 conservationists"},{"date": "2015-03-11T03:32:05Z", "country": "australia", "content": "1829 Settlement declared in Western Australia, making Aboriginal people subject to British law. Aboriginal resistance results in a series of raids and reprisal attacks, particularly in the 1830s. 1905 Western Australia introduces the Aborigines Act, allowing the forcible removal of children and the corralling of Aboriginal people on to reserves and making the \u201cchief protector of Aborigines\u201d the legal guardian of every Aboriginal person in the state.1967 A national referendum is held to remove discriminatory clauses in the Australian constitution which excluded Aboriginal people from the commonwealth\u2019s obligation to legislate for the benefit of its citizens and excluded Aboriginal people from being counted in the population.1969 The equal wage decision comes into force in the Australian cattle industry, foreshadowed by the mass eviction of Aboriginal people from pastoral stations in northern Australia.1974 The Whitlam government establishes the Aboriginal Land Fund to allow Aboriginal corporations to acquire interests in and occupy land, as part of its \u201cself-determination\u201d policy. The year before all states, except Queensland, relinquished their special responsibilities for Aboriginal communities to the commonwealth.1992 The Australian high court hands down the Mabo v Queensland (no.2) decision that rejects terra nullius and recognised the existence of native title in Australian common law. The decision is put into law in the Native Title Act 1993.2014 The Australian government puts responsibility for funding essential services in Aboriginal communities back on the states. The Western Australian government responds by saying it could not afford to support all 274 remote communities in its state, and that up to 150 communities which were \u201cnot viable\u201d faced \u201cclosure\u201d.", "tags": ["Indigenous Australians", "Australia news", "Western Australia"], "title": "Aboriginal land rights in Western Australia \u2013\u00a0timeline"},{"date": "2015-02-06T07:20:47Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A large bushfire that has burned more than 80,0000 hectares of forest and private land in Western Australia\u2019s south west has been declared a national disaster.The fire near Northcliffe 350km south of Perth has been burning for seven days and forced the evacuation of the town on Tuesday.On Friday, the state\u2019s premier, Colin Barnett, told a community meeting in Pemberton, about 30km north of Northcliffe, that the fire had been declared a natural disaster, meaning the area would be eligible for state and federal assistance. The assistance will include personal hardship grants, financial assistance to local government, and interest rate subsidies for small businesses and primary producers who have been directly impacted by the fire.About 40 people spent Thursday night in the Pemberton evacuation centre after being asked to leave Northcliffe.The ABC reported that incident controller Roger Armstrong told the meeting that people could be allowed to return to their homes in Northcliffe \u201csometime in the next 24 to 36 hours\u201d.\u201cWe have to make sure all the access, power infrastructure and so on is safe before we let you in,\u201d Armstrong said. The area was still under an emergency alert on Friday but the threat was less severe.Firefighters took advantage of cooler conditions and light rainfall on Friday morning to strengthen containment lines around the fire\u2019s 270km perimeter.Russell Jones, media liaison officer with the Department of Fire and Emergency Services, said firefighters were particularly concerned about two patches on the fire\u2019s northern flank and one on the eastern flank on Friday morning, but were unable to back-burn because of the rain. Jones said firefighters were hopeful of \u201cgood news from local weather\u201d on Saturday and Sunday, despite forecast temperatures of up to 40C on Sunday.But he said the hot and humid conditions would add to firefighter fatigue. About 130 Victorian firefighters arrived to relieve West Australian volunteers on Thursday, after some local volunteers pulled 30-hour shifts. More firefighters from New South Wales are expected to arrive on Saturday.The fire department declared a total fire ban across all southern and central areas of Western Australia on Friday, citing \u201cstrain on firefighting resources\u201d.Jones said about 200 firefighters and 60 support staff were working on the fire on Friday, but only 100 were on the front line. Firefighters are camping in a tent city built by Australian defence force troops in Manjimup.The fire has destroyed two houses and five sheds, and caused a number of roads to buckle. Perth was blanketed by smoke from a second large fire at Boddington, about 130km south of the city, on Friday.Smoke from the 50,000ha fire was reported as far north as Geraldton, 534km away.The fire has destroyed the historic Long Gully Bridge on the 1,000km-long Bibbulmun Track at Dwellingup, as well as a house and several sheds.The state\u2019s Department of Parks and Wildlife confirmed the loss on Facebook on Friday. The 128m-long trestle bridge was built by WA Government Railways in 1949. In recent years it has been used by walkers crossing the Murray river on the Bibbulmun track, which runs from Albany to the Perth Hills.", "tags": ["Western Australia", "Bushfires", "Australia news", "World news"], "title": "Western Australia fire declared a national disaster"},{"date": "2015-01-06T14:00:02Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The road, the day, the night, everything felt upside down. The Australian way could be felt in every breath we took and the warmth of the outback wrapped us with a sense of safety. In the car, we stared at\u00a0the\u00a0never-ending white line that divided the road and drew out as the only landmark possible to follow.The longer we drove, the deeper our eyes would sink into that never-ending line, leading us somewhere between the infinity of the sky and the ground of fire. Red dust and burning air, nothing else \u2013 nothing more but the sun, the sky, the dust and their primary colours.The day starts at 4.30 in the morning and ends around 7.30 in the evening. Real explorers always wake up with the sun and fall asleep with the moon. Each day was a new adventure, a road trip towards the discovery of this fascinating land. And each day would start exactly the same: sunglasses on, sunscreen on and \u2013 the most important of all \u2013 net on. This would actually be the only place in the world where you would want to put a net over your head in order to avoid swallowing a kilo of flies per day, and probably the only place where you would pay $18 for one of these nets.However, as explorers, we were ready to accept all the challengesthat might come along \u2013 for instance, taking a shower in lost iron cabins with giant frogs for company, or eating cans of tuna \u2013 on top of the copious fly dish \u2013 three times a day, for they were the only food that would not boil in the trunk.As the night fell, it brought the sweet relief of fresh air in the furnace that was our car and home for that week. The only lights that could show us the way were now the stars, which seemed multiplied in the nudity of the sky. In the immensity of the land, everything was amplified.Silence had never been that noisy. We did not feel alone any more; we had never been so aware of everything that surrounded us. Dingoes, frogs, snakes, mosquitoes. Yes, mosquitoes. They were the ghosts of our nights, invisible but audible, and the vampires of our adventure, sucking our blood for as long as the night might last. More than any wild creature that was living out there, they were the scariest.Each night was a battle for our survival in this land of wilderness and danger, won by the swatting of what had seemed to be a billion mosquitoes. In the morning, most of our blood would then be found on our mottled clothes, on the flecked roof, in every spot the fight between the devilish mosquitoes and our poor European human nature had happened. As the sun rose up, its rays would greet us with that wonderful feeling of peace and loneliness again.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Australia news"], "title": "Letter from Australia: line of fire"},{"date": "2015-03-28T21:51:24Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Abbott government has elected to begin the process of joining the China-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank \u2013 but is still telegraphing concerns about the structure of the organisation.China launched the $100bn proposal last year and more than 20 countries have announced their intention to be founding members.There have been different views within the cabinet about whether Australia should join the institution. The United States has been distinctly cool on the proposal which, given its resources and membership, could ultimately rival other global financial institutions, like the World Bank.When Britain joined the AIIB in mid March, the White House issued a rare public rebuke, declaring its hope and expectation that the UK would use its influence to ensure that high standards of governance are upheld. The US sees the AIIB as a vehicle for China to exert influence in the region.The spectrum of cabinet views have prompted Australia to appear first supportive, then cool, then, over the past fortnight, supportive once again.Last week the prime minister Tony Abbott told reporters he was in discussions with the United States and with Japan about Australia joining the AIIB.The statement issued by the prime minister, Tony Abbott, the foreign minister, Julie Bishop, and the treasurer, Joe Hockey, early on Sunday, was still hedged.Australia would sign a memorandum of understanding on the AIIB \u201cwhich would allow Australia to participate as a prospective founding member in negotiations to set up the bank.\u201d\u201cThe government has discussed the AIIB extensively with China and other key partners inside and outside the region,\u201d the joint statement said.\u201cGood progress has been made on the bank\u2019s design, governance and transparency over the past few months, but we still have issues that we will address through ongoing consultations,\u201d it said.\u201cKey matters to be resolved before Australia considers joining the AIIB include the bank\u2019s board of directors having authority over key investment decisions, and that no one country control the bank.\u201d ", "tags": ["Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank", "Business", "Global economy", "Australia news", "China", "Australian economy", "Asia Pacific", "Economics", "World news", "US news"], "title": "Australia confirms it will join China's Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank"},{"date": "2015-03-27T14:01:44Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Green party has in the past year gone from fringe party to having more than 55,000 members, overtaking the Liberal Democrats in some polls. Prominent supporters include Jack Monroe, Vivienne Westwood and Russell Brand.In the third in a series of leader interviews before the general election, the Green party leader talks to Phoebe Greenwood about how the threat of climate change and the state of the British economy are interlinked problems, and clears up a few questions about the party\u2019s policies.Bennett, the first Australian-born UK political party leader, says there\u2019s \u201ca very strong strand of anti-intellectual thought in Australian life\u201d and talks of her love of British culture.She was \u201cdevastated\u201d at the time of her famous LBC interview in February. \u201cIf nothing else it proved that I\u2019m human,\u201d she says, \u201cand that I\u2019m not a product of the spin machine.\u201d The reality of life is that you take a knock and have to move on, Bennett argues. She admits that she is doing media training ahead of the leader debates, but denies that she has been instructed to talk less about hedgehogs. \u201cThey are lovely animals and we\u2019re seeing their numbers plummet as a result of the nature of what we\u2019re doing to the British countryside,\u201d she adds.Bennett clarifies which of the policies reported in the tabloid media are in fact true. She says that the Green party is not in favour of unrestricted immigration, but \u201ccontrolled, but humane and fair immigration policy\u201d. The party would encourage the BBC to show educational programmes during prime-time, but it would not be a policy in the manifesto. She stresses that moving the Queen to a council house is \u201cdefinitely not Green party policy\u201d but confirms that the Greens would decriminalise brothels and encourage football clubs to become co-operatives. The Green party-led council in Brighton and Hove has been ranked 302nd out of 326 for its recycling record. The party is focusing on \u201cchanging the direction of travel\u201d in Brighton, Bennett says. She stresses that the Greens are a minority administration and that she is proud of some of its achievements, such as ensuring that all council employees are paid no less than the living wage and that the highest-paid people in the council aren\u2019t paid more than 10 times that of the lowest paid.", "tags": ["Natalie Bennett", "Green party", "General election 2015", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Natalie Bennett talks about brain fades, climate change and Australia"},{"date": "2015-03-27T06:37:13Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Numbat conservationists in Western Australia are appealing against an Environmental Protection Authority decision not to assess a proposal to build a large rubbish tip just 6km from the Dryandra woodlands.The area is home to one of only two populations of the endangered marsupial to have survived colonisation.The proposed 65-hectare waste disposal site is a consolidation of 11 rubbish tips from seven local government areas and is expected to bring in 5,000 tonnes of rubbish a year.But conservationists say the feral animals attracted by the tip \u2013 namely cats and foxes \u2013 would have a devastating impact on native animals in nearby Dryandra, especially the West Australian state emblem, the numbat. That\u2019s of particular concern to a group of four men who call themselves the Numbat Task Force.Once a fortnight, the men pile into two cars, reset their odometers and head into Dryandra woodland, 170km south east of Perth, driving at what the group\u2019s unofficial founder, Sean van Alphen, described as \u201cnumbat speed\u201d \u2013 about 10km an hour.Talking over CB radios, the convoy slows down when they reach a likely patch of vegetation and scan for the tiny marsupials. Spotting a numbat is always worth the hours in the car.\u201cYour next numbat is always the best,\u201d the Task Force\u2019s newest member, Robert MacLean, told Guardian Australia.MacLean and van Alphen give the same answer when asked why they devote hours of their spare time to searching for numbats, carefully cataloguing and photographing every one they find and posting the results on their Facebook page.\u201cHave you seen a numbat in the wild?\u201d MacLean asks. \u201cAs soon as you do you will be doing the same thing. It\u2019s a bit of an addiction.\u201dFor the uninitiated, he explains that, \u201cNumbats are like meerkats but better.\u201d\u201cYou get runners and sitters. Runners just keep on running and that\u2019s all you see, then you get a little sitter and it\u2019s always special because you get to spend a bit of time with them. It\u2019s the sitters that make you the addict.\u201d The task force know the area so well that they have named popular numbat hangouts, as well as most of the numbats themselves.\u201cWe have got the Sheriff, because there\u2019s a little place in Dryandra that we call log city so we have got the Sheriff of Log City, and we can recognise her by sight,\u201d MacLean said.None of the men are conservationists by trade. MacLean drives a meat truck. Van Alphen works for an airline. John Lawson, the only one of the four to live locally, is caretaker of the Dryandra Woodland Village accommodation site.But they have kept detailed records since 1999, and what those records show isn\u2019t good.A sharp decline in the numbat population last decade means days spent driving without success far outweigh the good days. In 2010 they didn\u2019t see a single numbat. So far this year they have had six sightings, but MacLean says four of those were of the same numbat.When Van Alphen started visiting Dryandra in 1992, there were 11.3 numbats per 100km. Last year, the Department of Parks and Wildlife survey found just 0.27 numbats per 100km \u2013 or one every 400km. The population has shrunk from 800 to just 50.Van Alphen said feral cats caused the population crash. With the numbers at such a critical level, anything that attracts more cats to the area \u2013 like the proposed rubbish tip \u2013 could have a devastating effect.\u201cYou could lose 10 of these animals on a bad day,\u201d Van Alphen said. \u201cI think that if something is not down very quickly we are not going to have any numbats left in Dryandra.\u201dNumbats once existed across Australia but were wiped out everywhere bar Dryandra and Perup, which lies 260km south. They are slowly being reintroduced to other areas but Dryandra, as a remnant population, is as valuable as it is vulnerable.Van Alphen said the risk of increased cat predation from the proposed waste disposal centre, which is just 6km from the woodland, was too high.Rubbish tips are known attractors of feral cats, who feed on rodents in the rubbish as well as the rubbish itself. A 2005 University of Sydney study described them as \u201cbiological attraction points around which free-living cats congregate in high densities.\u201d The study said the abundance of food made it difficult to conduct population control as cats, fussy about poison at the best of times, passed up baits for other options.Van Alphen said he was concerned that even the much-touted new Eradicat baits, which have had success in sparser areas of the Wheatbelt during the hungry dry months, would not be as effective in an area so rich in live food.And cats aren\u2019t the only problem. Black rats, previously unrecorded in Dryandra woodland, could be brought in along with rubbish from other tips. Ravens, which mob native animals, are also expected to come.The impact on native animals like numbats and woolies, which have recently been re-listed as endangered, was the key concern raised in public submissions to the development proposal. The Shire of Cuballing has jurisdiction over the proposal. In a meeting on 19 March, it said 56 of the 70 submissions it received raised concerns or objections to the proposal. Just five showed support.Cuballing\u2019s shire president, Mark Conley, said the council has requested further information from the Great Southern Regional Waste Group about how it proposes to manage environmental risks like feral animals and is yet to vote on the proposal.Conley said they were unlikely to receive that information until May.\u201cWe are very concerned about the numbat habitat; we have got to get more information about what the impact will be,\u201d he said. \u201cHowever something that\u2019s overlooked by some people concerned about this is we will be closing two tips that are closer to Dryandra than the proposed waste site.\u201dAn EPA notice published last week said the environmental impact of the proposed tip was \u201cnot so significant as to require assessment\u201d. The Numbat Task Force and Greens MP Lynn MacLaren are both appealing against that decision.\u201cIt is very surprising that the Environmental Protection Authority did not reject, or at least properly assess this tip proposal, which will increase rodent numbers and thus the number of feral predators, especially cats, in Dryandra, and Australian ravens, which prey on numbats,\u201d MacLaren said.MacLean urged the council to consider moving the waste centre, even if the EPA rejects the appeals.\u201cIf we\u2019re wrong about the impact of the tip, there\u2019s no harm done,\u201d he said. But if they are wrong, and the numbats go, it\u2019s a massive price to pay.\u201d", "tags": ["Western Australia", "Animals", "Australia news", "Conservation", "Environment"], "title": "Numbats at risk from proposed Western Australia rubbish tip \u2013 conservationists"},{"date": "2015-03-26T00:21:06Z", "country": "australia", "content": "While the weather is still warm, there\u2019s time to take your clothes off. But where?Naked harbourDespite participants being buck naked, the Sydney Skinny swim claims not to be about nudity. Rather, this annual dip is aimed at challenging people to step outside of their comfort zones (and clothes), back to basics and to feel the fresh ocean on their bare bodies. Held on 1 March from Cobblers Beach, Middle Head, Sydney, swimmers are invited to swim either 900m or partake in the 300m nudie novice. Money raised from this ticketed event goes towards rejuvenating Sydney Harbour national park, in which it takes place.Naked canyoningCombine a passion for nature with a lack of fitness and throw in some nudity and you\u2019ve got the Fat Canyoners. This group, which prefers to toss away their clothes and strap on a backpack and boots, can be found bushwalking naked in picturesque places such as the Blue Mountains. Despite stripping back to basics, this group takes its hiking seriously, and even has a strict bushwalkers\u2019 code which ensures those who join pay heed to the Indigenous culture of the land on which they walk, as well as the flora and fauna. Depending on the location, some walks end in a skinny dip and others in nude yoga. And, as the name suggests, there\u2019s also some canyoning involved.Naked yoga for menIf you prefer your nude yoga in a studio instead of by a stream, then Naked Yoga Sydney is for you. Open to men only, the purpose of this St Peters studio is not about sex but sensuality. By yoga standards, classes are relatively cheap at $15 a pop, but voyeurs are not invited. Rather, it\u2019s all about body acceptance here. There are, however, regular classes touted as A Touch More Tantric which do celebrate sexuality and sensuality through partner work, but again the studio stresses there is no \u201cblatant sexuality\u201d.Naked caravanningPlonked on 40ha of natural bush land in Litchfield, 70km south of Darwin, The Top End Naturist Recreation Retreat is a nudist caravanning and cabin resort for the whole family. Clothing is \u201cnot optional\u201d here but an \u201call-over tan\u201d is promised during the dry season, which runs from April to September. Shoes are allowed on the 3.5km of walking tracks, and there\u2019s even miniature golf, table tennis, a pool and some of the tallest termite mounds in the Territory against which you can measure your height, in all its naked glory.Naked art classesWhile there are plenty of places around Australia in which to pick up a pen and join a nude art class, there\u2019s something about doing it in the country\u2019s capital of cool, Melbourne, which makes it all the more appealing. Melbourne Life Drawing has 15 male and female models of various shapes and sizes to sketch and a number of sessions in which to participate. Meanwhile, Melbourne Art Class has spontaneous drop-in life drawing Friday night sessions where no booking is required and for $20 you can simply arrive, pick up a pencil and draw to your heart\u2019s content.To draw a map of Tassie in Tassie, head to Hobart\u2019s Adult Education Tasmania. While participants are invited to wear old clothes or a smock, their subjects are naked, as it is said to be easier to draw a body which is \u201cunencumbered or obscured\u201d by clothing. This comprehensive course covers everything from quick sketches and basic anatomy to exercises in right-brain thinking and developing confidence and risk taking.Nudist resortsIronically situated near a place called Robe in South Australia, the Sunland Holiday Village claims to be Australia\u2019s only ocean beach nudist resort. Run by long-term naturists, its mantra is to encourage \u201cself-respect, respect for others and respect for the environment\u201d. There are powered and unpowered caravan sites here, as well as a club house where guests gather for morning tea and happy hour. Enjoy the 100ha of bushland and sand dunes and take a dip along the nippy Limestone Coast upon which it is situated, if you dare.In warmer climes, situated in Queensland\u2019s Whitsundays, Taylorwood claims to be the region\u2019s only nudist resort. Set in a peaceful eight acres of private land in the Conway Ranges, there are self-contained cabins and powered sites here. This adult only resort has a tropical pool around which residents can relax and if you\u2019re lucky enough to be there on New Year\u2019s Eve, there\u2019s body painting. It\u2019s also a 15 minute drive to Airlie beach, which is the launchpad to the Whitsunday\u2019s 74 islands. All over tanWith its tropical weather, Queensland offers one of the best places in the country in which to strip naked, and two nudist beaches are stand-outs in the Sunshine State. Framed by the Daintree rainforest, Cow Bay beach in tropical north Queensland offers extreme privacy for those who wish to take their clothes off. Further south on the Sunshine Coast, Alexandria Bay is considered Noosa\u2019s \u201cunofficial nudist beach\u201d. Situated within Noosa\u2019s national park, it has been prone to police crackdowns from time to time, but that just makes a visit all the more exciting. ", "tags": ["Australia travel blog", "Australasia holidays", "Travel", "Yoga", "Life and style"], "title": "Naked Australia \u2013 top seven things to do in the nude"},{"date": "2015-04-07T06:05:48Z", "country": "australia", "content": "", "tags": ["Australia news", "Islam", "Sharia law"], "title": "A racist carrot reclaims Australia | First Dog on the Moon"},{"date": "2015-04-07T06:05:48Z", "country": "australia", "content": "", "tags": ["Australia news", "Islam", "Sharia law"], "title": "A racist carrot reclaims Australia | First Dog on the Moon"},{"date": "2015-06-17T10:17:42Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Indonesia and Australia are embroiled in a diplomatic row over allegations that people smugglers were bribed at sea by Australian officials to turn their boats around.In a dramatic few days of revelations, the Indonesians have put on display tens of thousands of US dollars that it alleges Australia paid to smugglers in May and paraded a smuggler captain who detailed how Australian spies bribed him at sea to turn back. Related: Did Australia pay people-smugglers to turn back asylum seekers? Australia\u2019s foreign minister, Julie Bishop, rejected the accusations on Monday by suggesting that Indonesia was to blame for failing to secure its borders in the first place.Indonesian police then released photos of what they say is US$31,000 (\u00a319,600) that they accuse Australian authorities of using to persuade smugglers to turn around a boat carrying 65 migrants.A police interview was conducted on Wednesday in front of media with Yohanis Humiang, the boat\u2019s captain. Humiang said an Australian navy warship and an Australian customs ship intercepted his boat, the Andika, on 19 May, according to excerpts from the interview published in the Sydney Morning Herald.\"If such payments were made, the government is pouring more sugar on the table for people smugglers\"Humiang was quoted as saying that an Australian official called \u201cAgus\u201d paid him and five other crew members thousands of dollars not to continue their voyage, which he said was to New Zealand, after he pleaded that he was trying to earn a living. If his claims are proven, experts believe Australia will have broken international, Indonesian and Australian law.Gen Endang Sunjaya, police chief of Nusa Tenggara Timur province in Indonesia, told reporters on Wednesday that the man who paid the smugglers was a plainclothes Australian spy.The boat was was escorted to Greenhill Island in the Northern Territory, the smuggler said, and the asylum seekers were photographed. The crew and the asylum seekers then spent a night on the customs ship. They were given two wooden boats, with some fuel and a GPS, and told to head back, he said.One boat ran out of fuel and the second crashed into a reef before those on board were rescued near Rote Island by Indonesian authorities at the end of May, police and the smuggler said on Wednesday.The Australian government has invoked its \u201con-water matters\u201d secrecy rule to defend its failure to comprehensively answer the claims. Pressed in parliament to respond to the allegations, the Australian prime minister, Tony Abbott, on Wednesday accused the opposition Labor party of asking \u201ctawdry\u201d questions.\u201cNot only is what this government has done legal, it is moral; it is absolutely moral, because the most moral thing to do is to stop the boats and save lives,\u201d he said.The reports have renewed tensions between Australia and Indonesia. Australia\u2019s ambassador, Paul Grigson, returned to his post in Jakarta only last week, five weeks after being pulled out in protest over the execution of two Australians who were among eight convicted drug smugglers.Abbott said last Wednesday that executions of the two citizens would not permanently damage relations with Indonesia.Indonesia\u2019s foreign ministry has launched an investigation into the allegations of using cash to turn around smugglers. \u201c[IF] it turns out to be true, it would be a new low for the way the government of Australia handles the situation on irregular migration,\u201d Indonesian foreign ministry spokesman, Armanatha Nasir, said.Vedi Hadiz, professor of Asian Societies and Politics at Murdoch University in Australia, said that following public outrage from Australia at the execution of its citizens in Indonesia, Jakarta has used reports of Canberra collaborating with people smugglers to hit back.\u201cIndonesia is genuinely annoyed that its own national sovereignty is being breached by people smugglers who are financed by Australian tax money,\u201d he told the Guardian on Wednesday.\u201c[But] it is an opportunity for the Indonesians to say: \u2018Look, it is the Australians who are turning back boats, are putting people in detention centres and are actually paying criminals. Which one of us is actually the transgressor of international norms?\u201d he said.Abbott has neither confirmed nor denied the allegation. He has said he was \u201cconfident that at all times Australian agencies have acted within the law\u201d.\u201cThere\u2019s really only one thing to say here, and that is that we\u2019ve stopped the boats. That\u2019s good for Australia, it\u2019s good for Indonesia and it\u2019s particularly good for all those who want to see a better world,\u201d he told reporters in Canberra on Sunday.These comments further enraged Jakarta, Hadiz said, in so far as Abbott was \u201cbasically ignoring Indonesian concerns about state funding criminal activity within their waters\u201d.Elaine Pearson, Australia director at Human Rights Watch, told the Guardian that the allegations show \u201can utter disregard for Australia\u2019s obligations under international law\u201d.\u201cAlthough we do not have the facts about what exactly transpired at sea, cash payments to boat crews could facilitate people-smuggling, which would violate Indonesian, Australia and international law,\u201d she said in an emailed statement.\u201cIn the past, the Australian prime minister has talked about taking sugar off the table for people smugglers, but if such payments were made, the government is pouring more sugar on the table for people smugglers by creating cash incentives for people to come to Australian waters.\u201dMark Getchell, the International Organisation for Migration\u2019s chief of mission in Indonesia, told the Guardian that Australia\u2019s Operation Sovereign Borders, which aims to stop maritime arrivals of asylum seekers by enforcing a policy of zero-tolerance, has had some success.\u201cWe haven\u2019t really seen boats leaving since December 2014 because word has gotten around that they are being turned back.\u201d he said on Wednesday. He said the IOM has noticed that very few boats are now leaving Indonesia. He said human smuggling boats are stopped by Australian authorities, given life jackets, fuel and food and told to return to Indonesia.Under Operation Sovereign Borders, asylum seekers who try to enter Australia are turned back or moved to detention centres offshore across the Pacific and are told that they will never be resettled in Australia.Getchell said he had not heard of other smugglers being paid to return and that if the allegations are proven correct, it would be an \u201cisolated incident\u201d.\u201cThis is a rare instance of people smugglers testing the waters again,\u201d he said on the telephone from Jakarta.The asylum seekers on board were mostly from Sri Lanka, but also Bangladesh and one from Burma.", "tags": ["Indonesia", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "United Nations", "Migration"], "title": "Indonesia accuses Australia of bribing people smugglers"},{"date": "2015-04-07T06:05:48Z", "country": "australia", "content": "", "tags": ["Australia news", "Islam", "Sharia law"], "title": "A racist carrot reclaims Australia | First Dog on the Moon"},{"date": "2015-06-17T10:17:42Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Indonesia and Australia are embroiled in a diplomatic row over allegations that people smugglers were bribed at sea by Australian officials to turn their boats around.In a dramatic few days of revelations, the Indonesians have put on display tens of thousands of US dollars that it alleges Australia paid to smugglers in May and paraded a smuggler captain who detailed how Australian spies bribed him at sea to turn back. Related: Did Australia pay people-smugglers to turn back asylum seekers? Australia\u2019s foreign minister, Julie Bishop, rejected the accusations on Monday by suggesting that Indonesia was to blame for failing to secure its borders in the first place.Indonesian police then released photos of what they say is US$31,000 (\u00a319,600) that they accuse Australian authorities of using to persuade smugglers to turn around a boat carrying 65 migrants.A police interview was conducted on Wednesday in front of media with Yohanis Humiang, the boat\u2019s captain. Humiang said an Australian navy warship and an Australian customs ship intercepted his boat, the Andika, on 19 May, according to excerpts from the interview published in the Sydney Morning Herald.\"If such payments were made, the government is pouring more sugar on the table for people smugglers\"Humiang was quoted as saying that an Australian official called \u201cAgus\u201d paid him and five other crew members thousands of dollars not to continue their voyage, which he said was to New Zealand, after he pleaded that he was trying to earn a living. If his claims are proven, experts believe Australia will have broken international, Indonesian and Australian law.Gen Endang Sunjaya, police chief of Nusa Tenggara Timur province in Indonesia, told reporters on Wednesday that the man who paid the smugglers was a plainclothes Australian spy.The boat was was escorted to Greenhill Island in the Northern Territory, the smuggler said, and the asylum seekers were photographed. The crew and the asylum seekers then spent a night on the customs ship. They were given two wooden boats, with some fuel and a GPS, and told to head back, he said.One boat ran out of fuel and the second crashed into a reef before those on board were rescued near Rote Island by Indonesian authorities at the end of May, police and the smuggler said on Wednesday.The Australian government has invoked its \u201con-water matters\u201d secrecy rule to defend its failure to comprehensively answer the claims. Pressed in parliament to respond to the allegations, the Australian prime minister, Tony Abbott, on Wednesday accused the opposition Labor party of asking \u201ctawdry\u201d questions.\u201cNot only is what this government has done legal, it is moral; it is absolutely moral, because the most moral thing to do is to stop the boats and save lives,\u201d he said.The reports have renewed tensions between Australia and Indonesia. Australia\u2019s ambassador, Paul Grigson, returned to his post in Jakarta only last week, five weeks after being pulled out in protest over the execution of two Australians who were among eight convicted drug smugglers.Abbott said last Wednesday that executions of the two citizens would not permanently damage relations with Indonesia.Indonesia\u2019s foreign ministry has launched an investigation into the allegations of using cash to turn around smugglers. \u201c[IF] it turns out to be true, it would be a new low for the way the government of Australia handles the situation on irregular migration,\u201d Indonesian foreign ministry spokesman, Armanatha Nasir, said.Vedi Hadiz, professor of Asian Societies and Politics at Murdoch University in Australia, said that following public outrage from Australia at the execution of its citizens in Indonesia, Jakarta has used reports of Canberra collaborating with people smugglers to hit back.\u201cIndonesia is genuinely annoyed that its own national sovereignty is being breached by people smugglers who are financed by Australian tax money,\u201d he told the Guardian on Wednesday.\u201c[But] it is an opportunity for the Indonesians to say: \u2018Look, it is the Australians who are turning back boats, are putting people in detention centres and are actually paying criminals. Which one of us is actually the transgressor of international norms?\u201d he said.Abbott has neither confirmed nor denied the allegation. He has said he was \u201cconfident that at all times Australian agencies have acted within the law\u201d.\u201cThere\u2019s really only one thing to say here, and that is that we\u2019ve stopped the boats. That\u2019s good for Australia, it\u2019s good for Indonesia and it\u2019s particularly good for all those who want to see a better world,\u201d he told reporters in Canberra on Sunday.These comments further enraged Jakarta, Hadiz said, in so far as Abbott was \u201cbasically ignoring Indonesian concerns about state funding criminal activity within their waters\u201d.Elaine Pearson, Australia director at Human Rights Watch, told the Guardian that the allegations show \u201can utter disregard for Australia\u2019s obligations under international law\u201d.\u201cAlthough we do not have the facts about what exactly transpired at sea, cash payments to boat crews could facilitate people-smuggling, which would violate Indonesian, Australia and international law,\u201d she said in an emailed statement.\u201cIn the past, the Australian prime minister has talked about taking sugar off the table for people smugglers, but if such payments were made, the government is pouring more sugar on the table for people smugglers by creating cash incentives for people to come to Australian waters.\u201dMark Getchell, the International Organisation for Migration\u2019s chief of mission in Indonesia, told the Guardian that Australia\u2019s Operation Sovereign Borders, which aims to stop maritime arrivals of asylum seekers by enforcing a policy of zero-tolerance, has had some success.\u201cWe haven\u2019t really seen boats leaving since December 2014 because word has gotten around that they are being turned back.\u201d he said on Wednesday. He said the IOM has noticed that very few boats are now leaving Indonesia. He said human smuggling boats are stopped by Australian authorities, given life jackets, fuel and food and told to return to Indonesia.Under Operation Sovereign Borders, asylum seekers who try to enter Australia are turned back or moved to detention centres offshore across the Pacific and are told that they will never be resettled in Australia.Getchell said he had not heard of other smugglers being paid to return and that if the allegations are proven correct, it would be an \u201cisolated incident\u201d.\u201cThis is a rare instance of people smugglers testing the waters again,\u201d he said on the telephone from Jakarta.The asylum seekers on board were mostly from Sri Lanka, but also Bangladesh and one from Burma.", "tags": ["Indonesia", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "United Nations", "Migration"], "title": "Indonesia accuses Australia of bribing people smugglers"},{"date": "2015-04-20T01:42:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It\u2019s 7am on a Sunday morning and I\u2019m standing bleary-eyed by the side of the road in inner-Sydney Redfern, waiting for a bus armed only with a bottle of water, a pen knife and a basket.We are heading south to a nearby state forest to engage in a distinctly northern hemisphere custom: picking mushrooms in a pine forest.\u201cWhat I teach is a distinctly imported practice, for an imported mushroom,\u201d says our group\u2019s moustachioed leader, Diego Bonetto, who\u2019s learnt how to read both field and forest for food since his childhood in northern Italy.In spring and summer, Diego hunts down greens like tender dandelion, fennel and a myriad of herbs, while autumn brings a bounty of saffron milk caps and slippery jacks, the two main types of mushrooms found in Australia\u2019s pine plantations. Come autumn, summer\u2019s mountain-bike riders and bushwalkers here are replaced by Polish and central European families, who arrive with barbecues, baskets and an eye for fungi. As with Diego, the motivation is not only a chance to score mushrooms for nothing, but also a chance to relive old traditions and most importantly, cook the old dishes.\u201cI love how out here you can be in the middle of nowhere and then you can hear Polish speaking, or German, or Croatian,\u201d he says. \u201cWhen you\u2019re in the forest and hunting mushrooms everything you say is in your language.\u201d While finding pine mushrooms can be as easy as following your ears, the one surprising thing about a pine forest is just how quiet it is. Snakes apparently don\u2019t like to slither on sharp pine needles, along with most of our native fauna. Your best bet then is to look for a decent stand of pine trees and, if there\u2019s been rain about a week before, magic can happen. Pine mushrooms have a symbiotic relationship with their host trees, and spend most of a decade developing underground before emerging to reproduce as a flower \u2013 what we know as a mushroom. This means you\u2019ll likely find them growing anywhere where pines are at least a decade old, and losing their lower limbs to reveal bare trunks. Mushroom picking and identification tours like the ones Diego runs are a good way to learn what you should and shouldn\u2019t pick, and how deadly mushrooms can mimic edible ones when they\u2019re old or sun-bleached.\u201cThe mushroom pickers mantra is when in doubt, leave it out,\u201d Diego adds.And what to do with them? A small haul makes a perfect wild mushroom ragu, slowly braised with red wine, aromatics and parmesan served over pasta or soft polenta. More than a few? Why not try making a Japanese-inspired pine mushroom rice to serve with yakitori or tempura? Too many to cook at once? Preserve them by making a mushroom confit and savour their flavour all season.But the best use of pine mushrooms is infinitely simple \u2013 roughly chop then saute gently in plenty of good butter with garlic and a little white wine. Once the wine evaporates, season to taste and add a little chopped parsley, maybe some Tabasco sauce or even Worcestershire. Serve on hot toast. \u2022 There are many deadly species of wild mushrooms and other fungi and some can appear similar to edible species. Mushroom picking should not be attempted by anyone unskilled in identifying wild species. If you are interested in foraging for mushrooms, join a guided tour such as one of the ones below: Diego Bonetto wild mushroom foraging workshop: next available date is 10 May, cost: $99 or two people for $180.Similar tours in Melbourne include:http://autumnharvest.com.au/tours/http://mushroomtours.com/", "tags": ["Foraging", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Foraging for wild mushrooms in Australia"},{"date": "2015-04-07T06:05:48Z", "country": "australia", "content": "", "tags": ["Australia news", "Islam", "Sharia law"], "title": "A racist carrot reclaims Australia | First Dog on the Moon"},{"date": "2015-06-17T10:17:42Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Indonesia and Australia are embroiled in a diplomatic row over allegations that people smugglers were bribed at sea by Australian officials to turn their boats around.In a dramatic few days of revelations, the Indonesians have put on display tens of thousands of US dollars that it alleges Australia paid to smugglers in May and paraded a smuggler captain who detailed how Australian spies bribed him at sea to turn back. Related: Did Australia pay people-smugglers to turn back asylum seekers? Australia\u2019s foreign minister, Julie Bishop, rejected the accusations on Monday by suggesting that Indonesia was to blame for failing to secure its borders in the first place.Indonesian police then released photos of what they say is US$31,000 (\u00a319,600) that they accuse Australian authorities of using to persuade smugglers to turn around a boat carrying 65 migrants.A police interview was conducted on Wednesday in front of media with Yohanis Humiang, the boat\u2019s captain. Humiang said an Australian navy warship and an Australian customs ship intercepted his boat, the Andika, on 19 May, according to excerpts from the interview published in the Sydney Morning Herald.\"If such payments were made, the government is pouring more sugar on the table for people smugglers\"Humiang was quoted as saying that an Australian official called \u201cAgus\u201d paid him and five other crew members thousands of dollars not to continue their voyage, which he said was to New Zealand, after he pleaded that he was trying to earn a living. If his claims are proven, experts believe Australia will have broken international, Indonesian and Australian law.Gen Endang Sunjaya, police chief of Nusa Tenggara Timur province in Indonesia, told reporters on Wednesday that the man who paid the smugglers was a plainclothes Australian spy.The boat was was escorted to Greenhill Island in the Northern Territory, the smuggler said, and the asylum seekers were photographed. The crew and the asylum seekers then spent a night on the customs ship. They were given two wooden boats, with some fuel and a GPS, and told to head back, he said.One boat ran out of fuel and the second crashed into a reef before those on board were rescued near Rote Island by Indonesian authorities at the end of May, police and the smuggler said on Wednesday.The Australian government has invoked its \u201con-water matters\u201d secrecy rule to defend its failure to comprehensively answer the claims. Pressed in parliament to respond to the allegations, the Australian prime minister, Tony Abbott, on Wednesday accused the opposition Labor party of asking \u201ctawdry\u201d questions.\u201cNot only is what this government has done legal, it is moral; it is absolutely moral, because the most moral thing to do is to stop the boats and save lives,\u201d he said.The reports have renewed tensions between Australia and Indonesia. Australia\u2019s ambassador, Paul Grigson, returned to his post in Jakarta only last week, five weeks after being pulled out in protest over the execution of two Australians who were among eight convicted drug smugglers.Abbott said last Wednesday that executions of the two citizens would not permanently damage relations with Indonesia.Indonesia\u2019s foreign ministry has launched an investigation into the allegations of using cash to turn around smugglers. \u201c[IF] it turns out to be true, it would be a new low for the way the government of Australia handles the situation on irregular migration,\u201d Indonesian foreign ministry spokesman, Armanatha Nasir, said.Vedi Hadiz, professor of Asian Societies and Politics at Murdoch University in Australia, said that following public outrage from Australia at the execution of its citizens in Indonesia, Jakarta has used reports of Canberra collaborating with people smugglers to hit back.\u201cIndonesia is genuinely annoyed that its own national sovereignty is being breached by people smugglers who are financed by Australian tax money,\u201d he told the Guardian on Wednesday.\u201c[But] it is an opportunity for the Indonesians to say: \u2018Look, it is the Australians who are turning back boats, are putting people in detention centres and are actually paying criminals. Which one of us is actually the transgressor of international norms?\u201d he said.Abbott has neither confirmed nor denied the allegation. He has said he was \u201cconfident that at all times Australian agencies have acted within the law\u201d.\u201cThere\u2019s really only one thing to say here, and that is that we\u2019ve stopped the boats. That\u2019s good for Australia, it\u2019s good for Indonesia and it\u2019s particularly good for all those who want to see a better world,\u201d he told reporters in Canberra on Sunday.These comments further enraged Jakarta, Hadiz said, in so far as Abbott was \u201cbasically ignoring Indonesian concerns about state funding criminal activity within their waters\u201d.Elaine Pearson, Australia director at Human Rights Watch, told the Guardian that the allegations show \u201can utter disregard for Australia\u2019s obligations under international law\u201d.\u201cAlthough we do not have the facts about what exactly transpired at sea, cash payments to boat crews could facilitate people-smuggling, which would violate Indonesian, Australia and international law,\u201d she said in an emailed statement.\u201cIn the past, the Australian prime minister has talked about taking sugar off the table for people smugglers, but if such payments were made, the government is pouring more sugar on the table for people smugglers by creating cash incentives for people to come to Australian waters.\u201dMark Getchell, the International Organisation for Migration\u2019s chief of mission in Indonesia, told the Guardian that Australia\u2019s Operation Sovereign Borders, which aims to stop maritime arrivals of asylum seekers by enforcing a policy of zero-tolerance, has had some success.\u201cWe haven\u2019t really seen boats leaving since December 2014 because word has gotten around that they are being turned back.\u201d he said on Wednesday. He said the IOM has noticed that very few boats are now leaving Indonesia. He said human smuggling boats are stopped by Australian authorities, given life jackets, fuel and food and told to return to Indonesia.Under Operation Sovereign Borders, asylum seekers who try to enter Australia are turned back or moved to detention centres offshore across the Pacific and are told that they will never be resettled in Australia.Getchell said he had not heard of other smugglers being paid to return and that if the allegations are proven correct, it would be an \u201cisolated incident\u201d.\u201cThis is a rare instance of people smugglers testing the waters again,\u201d he said on the telephone from Jakarta.The asylum seekers on board were mostly from Sri Lanka, but also Bangladesh and one from Burma.", "tags": ["Indonesia", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "United Nations", "Migration"], "title": "Indonesia accuses Australia of bribing people smugglers"},{"date": "2015-04-20T01:42:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It\u2019s 7am on a Sunday morning and I\u2019m standing bleary-eyed by the side of the road in inner-Sydney Redfern, waiting for a bus armed only with a bottle of water, a pen knife and a basket.We are heading south to a nearby state forest to engage in a distinctly northern hemisphere custom: picking mushrooms in a pine forest.\u201cWhat I teach is a distinctly imported practice, for an imported mushroom,\u201d says our group\u2019s moustachioed leader, Diego Bonetto, who\u2019s learnt how to read both field and forest for food since his childhood in northern Italy.In spring and summer, Diego hunts down greens like tender dandelion, fennel and a myriad of herbs, while autumn brings a bounty of saffron milk caps and slippery jacks, the two main types of mushrooms found in Australia\u2019s pine plantations. Come autumn, summer\u2019s mountain-bike riders and bushwalkers here are replaced by Polish and central European families, who arrive with barbecues, baskets and an eye for fungi. As with Diego, the motivation is not only a chance to score mushrooms for nothing, but also a chance to relive old traditions and most importantly, cook the old dishes.\u201cI love how out here you can be in the middle of nowhere and then you can hear Polish speaking, or German, or Croatian,\u201d he says. \u201cWhen you\u2019re in the forest and hunting mushrooms everything you say is in your language.\u201d While finding pine mushrooms can be as easy as following your ears, the one surprising thing about a pine forest is just how quiet it is. Snakes apparently don\u2019t like to slither on sharp pine needles, along with most of our native fauna. Your best bet then is to look for a decent stand of pine trees and, if there\u2019s been rain about a week before, magic can happen. Pine mushrooms have a symbiotic relationship with their host trees, and spend most of a decade developing underground before emerging to reproduce as a flower \u2013 what we know as a mushroom. This means you\u2019ll likely find them growing anywhere where pines are at least a decade old, and losing their lower limbs to reveal bare trunks. Mushroom picking and identification tours like the ones Diego runs are a good way to learn what you should and shouldn\u2019t pick, and how deadly mushrooms can mimic edible ones when they\u2019re old or sun-bleached.\u201cThe mushroom pickers mantra is when in doubt, leave it out,\u201d Diego adds.And what to do with them? A small haul makes a perfect wild mushroom ragu, slowly braised with red wine, aromatics and parmesan served over pasta or soft polenta. More than a few? Why not try making a Japanese-inspired pine mushroom rice to serve with yakitori or tempura? Too many to cook at once? Preserve them by making a mushroom confit and savour their flavour all season.But the best use of pine mushrooms is infinitely simple \u2013 roughly chop then saute gently in plenty of good butter with garlic and a little white wine. Once the wine evaporates, season to taste and add a little chopped parsley, maybe some Tabasco sauce or even Worcestershire. Serve on hot toast. \u2022 There are many deadly species of wild mushrooms and other fungi and some can appear similar to edible species. Mushroom picking should not be attempted by anyone unskilled in identifying wild species. If you are interested in foraging for mushrooms, join a guided tour such as one of the ones below: Diego Bonetto wild mushroom foraging workshop: next available date is 10 May, cost: $99 or two people for $180.Similar tours in Melbourne include:http://autumnharvest.com.au/tours/http://mushroomtours.com/", "tags": ["Foraging", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Foraging for wild mushrooms in Australia"},{"date": "2015-06-30T05:56:43Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Now and again you hear talk of a rapprochement, or even cooperation between libertarians and the left. This chatter usually starts with lefties rather than libertarians themselves, who are, for all their flaws, not predisposed to compromises or half-measures. Related: Dear Bill Shorten: you're the opposition leader, not me. It's time to drop your soft bipartisanship | David Leyonhjelm The story goes that we share some common ground. Sure, libertarians want to gut what remains of the welfare state, give free rein to hate speech and tilt the industrial relations balance in favour of employers. But wait: many of them want to allow people to die with dignity. They often support same-sex marriage. Oh, and they are relaxed about weed. In the mid 2000s, many were impressed by the libertarian stance against neocon-inspired wars. More recently, they\u2019ve been seen to oppose misguided attempts at internet censorship and the seemingly limitless extension of the national security state. What if we could find a way to work together\u2026Thoughts such as these led progressives in the US to help out with Ron Paul\u2019s presidential campaigns. It even led some to cautiously welcome the accidental election of David Leyonhjelm to a position of potential influence in a divided Australian Senate.My suggestion would be that when it comes to support, we should pay on results. Leyonhjelm offers a real-world example of a self-declared libertarian with power. So it\u2019s relevant to ask what his tenure so far tells us about the degree to which there are in fact shared values to be built on. Is Leyonhjelm a friend or a foe? On the debit side of the ledger, he has consistently voted and spoken against the expansion of surveillance and has also generally opposed more draconian anti-terrorist measures on free speech grounds. It hasn\u2019t stopped the massive expansion of Australia\u2019s security state under Tony Abbott, but if we hold that against him, we\u2019d have to hold it against the Greens as well. .@KetanJ0 I don't think it's honourable to take taxpayer funds unless you're poor. Wind companies ain't poor.Unfortunately, it\u2019s difficult to point to very much beyond the failed effort to rein in this expansion of state power. And I think almost everything else he\u2019s done has been pernicious. For one thing, his crucial support has helped deliver an inquiry into windfarms, concocted on the basis of their alleged health effects, and conceived in order to delegitimise renewable energy and delay its implementation. No reputable scientist takes this link seriously. And a Twitter conversation between Ketan Joshi, a renewable energy expert who works for the wind industry, and Leyonhjelm\u2019s adviser Helen Dale, hints that perhaps the Senator\u2019s office doesn\u2019t either. Of health fears over windfarms, Dale tweeted that \u201cIf I can use them to get the far more damaging industry policy dumped, I will\u201d \u2013 in other words, the inquiry is useful if it shuts down a policy that libertarians find objectionable for reasons that aren\u2019t related to health.So it\u2019s not just that they are regressive on renewable energy, but that they may be willing to violate a basic norm of democratic respect to shut down, or stonewall, a component of renewable energy. There are many other examples of Leyonhjelm hobbling or trying to dismantle progressive policy. He voted for defunding public broadcasting, welfare cuts, privatisation and fracking. He voted against bans on supertrawlers and investing in renewables. Perhaps most disturbing, though, are Leyonhjelm\u2019s views on Indigenous Australians. It\u2019s not so much his substantive view on the subject of constitutional recognition, as the reason he gives for holding it.Last Friday \u2013 and not for the first time \u2013 he voiced doubts that Indigenous Australians were really the first inhabitants of the continent. He talked up \u201cdebate\u201d among anthropologists as a reason for being hesitant to enshrine Indigenous pre-eminence in the constitution. The closest you\u2019ll come to any serious debate about this question is Keith Windschuttle and Tim Gillin\u2019s attempt in 2002 to revive mid-20th century stories about the racial distinctiveness of the \u201cpygmies\u201d of north Queensland and Tasmania. For a while in the 1930s and 1940s a small number of anthropologists, influenced by outmoded ideas of durable racial purity, argued that these populations were remnants of a people who had been displaced by Aborigines. Fatefully, this idea made it into some textbooks and received a wider dissemination. For Windschuttle, the disappearance of the \u201cpygmy\u201d theory was evidence that it had been supressed for political reasons. The truth is that the theory has disappeared from view because there is no evidence to support it. There\u2019s no contemporary debate about this among anthropologists at all, despite slight returns of the theory of Aborigines as invaders, due to mistaken genetic analysis and misread rock paintings. What all this suggests, along with his participation in the windfarm inquiry, is a propensity to believe in fringe rightwing ideas, especially when they are ideologically convenient. Claims of windfarm syndrome could be handy if you don\u2019t want to see any investment in renewable energy. In the same way, crackpot anthropology is useful if you want to deny or excuse the fact that most Australian real estate was secured by theft and murder. Nothing is deadlier to the idea that economic success simply flows to those who deserve it than the reality of what\u2019s called \u201cprimitive accumulation\u201d \u2013 the act of forcing indigenous or premodern populations into capitalism (think back to the industrial revolution). That\u2019s why people like Keith Windschuttle spend so much time and energy denying that any violence happened at all on Australia\u2019s frontier. The provenance of these ideas tell us something important about the senator, too. It seems that mentally, he inhabits the same half-lit world we glimpse in the comment threads of rightwing blog Catallaxy, and the yellowing back issues of Quadrant.  Related: David Leyonhjelm is neither a champion nor a villain. He's a libertarian | Eleanor Robertson I would respectfully disagree with those, like Eleanor Robertson, who argue that libertarianism is basically a transplant in Australian political life. It\u2019s rather the case that there is no Australian tradition that contemporary, US-influenced libertarians are very keen to claim. Yet people like Leyonhjelm exemplify a form of business populism that, in parts of provincial Australia, thrives like lantana. Flat-taxing and Canberra-bashing, given to kooky theories, and committed above all to something called \u201cdevelopment\u201d \u2013 it\u2019s a common philosophy among those who think that their stint in small to medium enterprise gives them unique insights and entitlements. It\u2019s been on display for a long time, among white shoe Nationals, the rank and file of the IPA, and the letters page of the Australian. Leyonhjelm is a perfect exemplar of this bumptious tradition. Such an attitude can never be an ally of the Australian left, because it is what the Australian left exists to fight against.", "tags": ["David Leyonhjelm", "Human rights", "Renewable energy", "Wind power", "Indigenous Australians", "Environment"], "title": "Libertarians aren't our allies in building a progressive Australia | Jason Wilson"},{"date": "2015-04-07T06:05:48Z", "country": "australia", "content": "", "tags": ["Australia news", "Islam", "Sharia law"], "title": "A racist carrot reclaims Australia | First Dog on the Moon"},{"date": "2015-06-17T10:17:42Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Indonesia and Australia are embroiled in a diplomatic row over allegations that people smugglers were bribed at sea by Australian officials to turn their boats around.In a dramatic few days of revelations, the Indonesians have put on display tens of thousands of US dollars that it alleges Australia paid to smugglers in May and paraded a smuggler captain who detailed how Australian spies bribed him at sea to turn back. Related: Did Australia pay people-smugglers to turn back asylum seekers? Australia\u2019s foreign minister, Julie Bishop, rejected the accusations on Monday by suggesting that Indonesia was to blame for failing to secure its borders in the first place.Indonesian police then released photos of what they say is US$31,000 (\u00a319,600) that they accuse Australian authorities of using to persuade smugglers to turn around a boat carrying 65 migrants.A police interview was conducted on Wednesday in front of media with Yohanis Humiang, the boat\u2019s captain. Humiang said an Australian navy warship and an Australian customs ship intercepted his boat, the Andika, on 19 May, according to excerpts from the interview published in the Sydney Morning Herald.\"If such payments were made, the government is pouring more sugar on the table for people smugglers\"Humiang was quoted as saying that an Australian official called \u201cAgus\u201d paid him and five other crew members thousands of dollars not to continue their voyage, which he said was to New Zealand, after he pleaded that he was trying to earn a living. If his claims are proven, experts believe Australia will have broken international, Indonesian and Australian law.Gen Endang Sunjaya, police chief of Nusa Tenggara Timur province in Indonesia, told reporters on Wednesday that the man who paid the smugglers was a plainclothes Australian spy.The boat was was escorted to Greenhill Island in the Northern Territory, the smuggler said, and the asylum seekers were photographed. The crew and the asylum seekers then spent a night on the customs ship. They were given two wooden boats, with some fuel and a GPS, and told to head back, he said.One boat ran out of fuel and the second crashed into a reef before those on board were rescued near Rote Island by Indonesian authorities at the end of May, police and the smuggler said on Wednesday.The Australian government has invoked its \u201con-water matters\u201d secrecy rule to defend its failure to comprehensively answer the claims. Pressed in parliament to respond to the allegations, the Australian prime minister, Tony Abbott, on Wednesday accused the opposition Labor party of asking \u201ctawdry\u201d questions.\u201cNot only is what this government has done legal, it is moral; it is absolutely moral, because the most moral thing to do is to stop the boats and save lives,\u201d he said.The reports have renewed tensions between Australia and Indonesia. Australia\u2019s ambassador, Paul Grigson, returned to his post in Jakarta only last week, five weeks after being pulled out in protest over the execution of two Australians who were among eight convicted drug smugglers.Abbott said last Wednesday that executions of the two citizens would not permanently damage relations with Indonesia.Indonesia\u2019s foreign ministry has launched an investigation into the allegations of using cash to turn around smugglers. \u201c[IF] it turns out to be true, it would be a new low for the way the government of Australia handles the situation on irregular migration,\u201d Indonesian foreign ministry spokesman, Armanatha Nasir, said.Vedi Hadiz, professor of Asian Societies and Politics at Murdoch University in Australia, said that following public outrage from Australia at the execution of its citizens in Indonesia, Jakarta has used reports of Canberra collaborating with people smugglers to hit back.\u201cIndonesia is genuinely annoyed that its own national sovereignty is being breached by people smugglers who are financed by Australian tax money,\u201d he told the Guardian on Wednesday.\u201c[But] it is an opportunity for the Indonesians to say: \u2018Look, it is the Australians who are turning back boats, are putting people in detention centres and are actually paying criminals. Which one of us is actually the transgressor of international norms?\u201d he said.Abbott has neither confirmed nor denied the allegation. He has said he was \u201cconfident that at all times Australian agencies have acted within the law\u201d.\u201cThere\u2019s really only one thing to say here, and that is that we\u2019ve stopped the boats. That\u2019s good for Australia, it\u2019s good for Indonesia and it\u2019s particularly good for all those who want to see a better world,\u201d he told reporters in Canberra on Sunday.These comments further enraged Jakarta, Hadiz said, in so far as Abbott was \u201cbasically ignoring Indonesian concerns about state funding criminal activity within their waters\u201d.Elaine Pearson, Australia director at Human Rights Watch, told the Guardian that the allegations show \u201can utter disregard for Australia\u2019s obligations under international law\u201d.\u201cAlthough we do not have the facts about what exactly transpired at sea, cash payments to boat crews could facilitate people-smuggling, which would violate Indonesian, Australia and international law,\u201d she said in an emailed statement.\u201cIn the past, the Australian prime minister has talked about taking sugar off the table for people smugglers, but if such payments were made, the government is pouring more sugar on the table for people smugglers by creating cash incentives for people to come to Australian waters.\u201dMark Getchell, the International Organisation for Migration\u2019s chief of mission in Indonesia, told the Guardian that Australia\u2019s Operation Sovereign Borders, which aims to stop maritime arrivals of asylum seekers by enforcing a policy of zero-tolerance, has had some success.\u201cWe haven\u2019t really seen boats leaving since December 2014 because word has gotten around that they are being turned back.\u201d he said on Wednesday. He said the IOM has noticed that very few boats are now leaving Indonesia. He said human smuggling boats are stopped by Australian authorities, given life jackets, fuel and food and told to return to Indonesia.Under Operation Sovereign Borders, asylum seekers who try to enter Australia are turned back or moved to detention centres offshore across the Pacific and are told that they will never be resettled in Australia.Getchell said he had not heard of other smugglers being paid to return and that if the allegations are proven correct, it would be an \u201cisolated incident\u201d.\u201cThis is a rare instance of people smugglers testing the waters again,\u201d he said on the telephone from Jakarta.The asylum seekers on board were mostly from Sri Lanka, but also Bangladesh and one from Burma.", "tags": ["Indonesia", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "United Nations", "Migration"], "title": "Indonesia accuses Australia of bribing people smugglers"},{"date": "2015-04-20T01:42:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It\u2019s 7am on a Sunday morning and I\u2019m standing bleary-eyed by the side of the road in inner-Sydney Redfern, waiting for a bus armed only with a bottle of water, a pen knife and a basket.We are heading south to a nearby state forest to engage in a distinctly northern hemisphere custom: picking mushrooms in a pine forest.\u201cWhat I teach is a distinctly imported practice, for an imported mushroom,\u201d says our group\u2019s moustachioed leader, Diego Bonetto, who\u2019s learnt how to read both field and forest for food since his childhood in northern Italy.In spring and summer, Diego hunts down greens like tender dandelion, fennel and a myriad of herbs, while autumn brings a bounty of saffron milk caps and slippery jacks, the two main types of mushrooms found in Australia\u2019s pine plantations. Come autumn, summer\u2019s mountain-bike riders and bushwalkers here are replaced by Polish and central European families, who arrive with barbecues, baskets and an eye for fungi. As with Diego, the motivation is not only a chance to score mushrooms for nothing, but also a chance to relive old traditions and most importantly, cook the old dishes.\u201cI love how out here you can be in the middle of nowhere and then you can hear Polish speaking, or German, or Croatian,\u201d he says. \u201cWhen you\u2019re in the forest and hunting mushrooms everything you say is in your language.\u201d While finding pine mushrooms can be as easy as following your ears, the one surprising thing about a pine forest is just how quiet it is. Snakes apparently don\u2019t like to slither on sharp pine needles, along with most of our native fauna. Your best bet then is to look for a decent stand of pine trees and, if there\u2019s been rain about a week before, magic can happen. Pine mushrooms have a symbiotic relationship with their host trees, and spend most of a decade developing underground before emerging to reproduce as a flower \u2013 what we know as a mushroom. This means you\u2019ll likely find them growing anywhere where pines are at least a decade old, and losing their lower limbs to reveal bare trunks. Mushroom picking and identification tours like the ones Diego runs are a good way to learn what you should and shouldn\u2019t pick, and how deadly mushrooms can mimic edible ones when they\u2019re old or sun-bleached.\u201cThe mushroom pickers mantra is when in doubt, leave it out,\u201d Diego adds.And what to do with them? A small haul makes a perfect wild mushroom ragu, slowly braised with red wine, aromatics and parmesan served over pasta or soft polenta. More than a few? Why not try making a Japanese-inspired pine mushroom rice to serve with yakitori or tempura? Too many to cook at once? Preserve them by making a mushroom confit and savour their flavour all season.But the best use of pine mushrooms is infinitely simple \u2013 roughly chop then saute gently in plenty of good butter with garlic and a little white wine. Once the wine evaporates, season to taste and add a little chopped parsley, maybe some Tabasco sauce or even Worcestershire. Serve on hot toast. \u2022 There are many deadly species of wild mushrooms and other fungi and some can appear similar to edible species. Mushroom picking should not be attempted by anyone unskilled in identifying wild species. If you are interested in foraging for mushrooms, join a guided tour such as one of the ones below: Diego Bonetto wild mushroom foraging workshop: next available date is 10 May, cost: $99 or two people for $180.Similar tours in Melbourne include:http://autumnharvest.com.au/tours/http://mushroomtours.com/", "tags": ["Foraging", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Foraging for wild mushrooms in Australia"},{"date": "2015-06-30T05:56:43Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Now and again you hear talk of a rapprochement, or even cooperation between libertarians and the left. This chatter usually starts with lefties rather than libertarians themselves, who are, for all their flaws, not predisposed to compromises or half-measures. Related: Dear Bill Shorten: you're the opposition leader, not me. It's time to drop your soft bipartisanship | David Leyonhjelm The story goes that we share some common ground. Sure, libertarians want to gut what remains of the welfare state, give free rein to hate speech and tilt the industrial relations balance in favour of employers. But wait: many of them want to allow people to die with dignity. They often support same-sex marriage. Oh, and they are relaxed about weed. In the mid 2000s, many were impressed by the libertarian stance against neocon-inspired wars. More recently, they\u2019ve been seen to oppose misguided attempts at internet censorship and the seemingly limitless extension of the national security state. What if we could find a way to work together\u2026Thoughts such as these led progressives in the US to help out with Ron Paul\u2019s presidential campaigns. It even led some to cautiously welcome the accidental election of David Leyonhjelm to a position of potential influence in a divided Australian Senate.My suggestion would be that when it comes to support, we should pay on results. Leyonhjelm offers a real-world example of a self-declared libertarian with power. So it\u2019s relevant to ask what his tenure so far tells us about the degree to which there are in fact shared values to be built on. Is Leyonhjelm a friend or a foe? On the debit side of the ledger, he has consistently voted and spoken against the expansion of surveillance and has also generally opposed more draconian anti-terrorist measures on free speech grounds. It hasn\u2019t stopped the massive expansion of Australia\u2019s security state under Tony Abbott, but if we hold that against him, we\u2019d have to hold it against the Greens as well. .@KetanJ0 I don't think it's honourable to take taxpayer funds unless you're poor. Wind companies ain't poor.Unfortunately, it\u2019s difficult to point to very much beyond the failed effort to rein in this expansion of state power. And I think almost everything else he\u2019s done has been pernicious. For one thing, his crucial support has helped deliver an inquiry into windfarms, concocted on the basis of their alleged health effects, and conceived in order to delegitimise renewable energy and delay its implementation. No reputable scientist takes this link seriously. And a Twitter conversation between Ketan Joshi, a renewable energy expert who works for the wind industry, and Leyonhjelm\u2019s adviser Helen Dale, hints that perhaps the Senator\u2019s office doesn\u2019t either. Of health fears over windfarms, Dale tweeted that \u201cIf I can use them to get the far more damaging industry policy dumped, I will\u201d \u2013 in other words, the inquiry is useful if it shuts down a policy that libertarians find objectionable for reasons that aren\u2019t related to health.So it\u2019s not just that they are regressive on renewable energy, but that they may be willing to violate a basic norm of democratic respect to shut down, or stonewall, a component of renewable energy. There are many other examples of Leyonhjelm hobbling or trying to dismantle progressive policy. He voted for defunding public broadcasting, welfare cuts, privatisation and fracking. He voted against bans on supertrawlers and investing in renewables. Perhaps most disturbing, though, are Leyonhjelm\u2019s views on Indigenous Australians. It\u2019s not so much his substantive view on the subject of constitutional recognition, as the reason he gives for holding it.Last Friday \u2013 and not for the first time \u2013 he voiced doubts that Indigenous Australians were really the first inhabitants of the continent. He talked up \u201cdebate\u201d among anthropologists as a reason for being hesitant to enshrine Indigenous pre-eminence in the constitution. The closest you\u2019ll come to any serious debate about this question is Keith Windschuttle and Tim Gillin\u2019s attempt in 2002 to revive mid-20th century stories about the racial distinctiveness of the \u201cpygmies\u201d of north Queensland and Tasmania. For a while in the 1930s and 1940s a small number of anthropologists, influenced by outmoded ideas of durable racial purity, argued that these populations were remnants of a people who had been displaced by Aborigines. Fatefully, this idea made it into some textbooks and received a wider dissemination. For Windschuttle, the disappearance of the \u201cpygmy\u201d theory was evidence that it had been supressed for political reasons. The truth is that the theory has disappeared from view because there is no evidence to support it. There\u2019s no contemporary debate about this among anthropologists at all, despite slight returns of the theory of Aborigines as invaders, due to mistaken genetic analysis and misread rock paintings. What all this suggests, along with his participation in the windfarm inquiry, is a propensity to believe in fringe rightwing ideas, especially when they are ideologically convenient. Claims of windfarm syndrome could be handy if you don\u2019t want to see any investment in renewable energy. In the same way, crackpot anthropology is useful if you want to deny or excuse the fact that most Australian real estate was secured by theft and murder. Nothing is deadlier to the idea that economic success simply flows to those who deserve it than the reality of what\u2019s called \u201cprimitive accumulation\u201d \u2013 the act of forcing indigenous or premodern populations into capitalism (think back to the industrial revolution). That\u2019s why people like Keith Windschuttle spend so much time and energy denying that any violence happened at all on Australia\u2019s frontier. The provenance of these ideas tell us something important about the senator, too. It seems that mentally, he inhabits the same half-lit world we glimpse in the comment threads of rightwing blog Catallaxy, and the yellowing back issues of Quadrant.  Related: David Leyonhjelm is neither a champion nor a villain. He's a libertarian | Eleanor Robertson I would respectfully disagree with those, like Eleanor Robertson, who argue that libertarianism is basically a transplant in Australian political life. It\u2019s rather the case that there is no Australian tradition that contemporary, US-influenced libertarians are very keen to claim. Yet people like Leyonhjelm exemplify a form of business populism that, in parts of provincial Australia, thrives like lantana. Flat-taxing and Canberra-bashing, given to kooky theories, and committed above all to something called \u201cdevelopment\u201d \u2013 it\u2019s a common philosophy among those who think that their stint in small to medium enterprise gives them unique insights and entitlements. It\u2019s been on display for a long time, among white shoe Nationals, the rank and file of the IPA, and the letters page of the Australian. Leyonhjelm is a perfect exemplar of this bumptious tradition. Such an attitude can never be an ally of the Australian left, because it is what the Australian left exists to fight against.", "tags": ["David Leyonhjelm", "Human rights", "Renewable energy", "Wind power", "Indigenous Australians", "Environment"], "title": "Libertarians aren't our allies in building a progressive Australia | Jason Wilson"},{"date": "2015-06-24T07:23:09Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The lead up to the introduction of the patriotically-named \u201callegiance to Australia\u201d bill has been marked by debate around whether any such law would be constitutional, or would breach the separation of powers by giving the ministers judge-like powers.Unfortunately, in its efforts to guard against this unconstitutional outcome, the Abbott government has forgotten that a third branch of government exists alongside the executive and judiciary \u2013 the legislature \u2013 and that it too is prohibited from exercising judicial powers. There is a real risk the new law amounts to parliament imposing a sentence and punishment on an individual, an equally unconstitutional outcome. Whether the law is constitutional is only one question though. Arguably, more important ones should be the focus of attention. Related: Citizenship could be stripped for damaging commonwealth property In essence, the Australian citizenship amendment (allegiance to Australia) bill will, if passed, revoke the citizenship of dual citizens who:The first ground \u2013 let\u2019s call it wartime renunciation \u2013 is very similar to existing law, but fighting for or in the service of a proscribed terrorist organisation will now be grounds for automatic loss of Australian citizenship. While lawyers will quibble over the meanings of terms both parties are likely to support these changes. That the fighting or service also has to occur overseas means that it is less likely to be the focus of attention (although it should be closely scrutinised by parliament).As a new reform, the minister can stop a person automatically losing their citizenship (some relief to dual Australian-Kurds fighting against the Islamic State (Isis) overseas) but the power is 100% discretionary. The minister is not obliged to act, nor follow the rules of natural justice, nor does he or she even need to wait for a final Asio security assessment before acting (or not).Under the second ground, a dual citizen would lose Australian citizenship if they did certain things including: engaging in a terrorist act; providing or receiving training connected with preparation for, engagement in, or assistance in a terrorist act; or financing terrorism or financing a terrorist.While these acts sound fairly clear, anti-terror laws passed since 2001 have been incredibly broad. While fortunately, the vaguest terror offence \u2013 \u201cpossession of a thing connected with a terrorist act\u201d \u2013 is not grounds for citizenship revocation, there are significant issues with this conduct ground.It\u2019s not clear whether a person needs to intend to engage in any of these activities before their citizenship is revoked. Someone who puts on the uniform of another country in a time of war knows what they are doing, but will people lose their citizenship because part of their donation to a Gaza Relief fund ended up with a terrorist organisation? Would a person who, unwisely perhaps, \u201cliked\u201d a radical Facebook group which posted instructional videos on how to use small arms, or web-links to old resources like the Anarchist\u2019s Cookbook, lose their citizenship? The next question: who is a \u201cterrorist\u201d? Is it a fluid concept (like in the Criminal Code) or is it confined to people the government has declared are terrorists? If it\u2019s the latter, then at least there is certainty \u2013 unless the government gets its wish to make the laws retrospective. In that case, a person could never be sure that someone they gave money to (including family members) is not going to be later declared a terrorist. Remember Thatcher\u2019s designation of Mandela as a terrorist? Some individuals move between criteria.As with the wartime ground, the minister will have discretion to prevent someone losing their citizenship, although the usual caveats about natural justice apply (ie, there is none). The proposed law also doesn\u2019t set out a way for someone to challenge a finding that they engaged in proscribed conduct (indeed, the law is silent on who finds out that a person is engaging in this conduct). Will they have a full review before the courts? If not, then is this a case of parliament adjudicating on an individual\u2019s guilt and imposing a sentence? The high court has ruled that such laws, so called bills of pains and penalties, are unconstitutional at a national level.Until the questions around level of intent and avenues for appeal are addressed, the second conduct ground \u2013 engaging in terrorist conduct \u2013 remains dangerously vague and possibly unconstitutional. It should certainly not be made retrospective.Finally, a dual citizen will lose Australian citizenship if convicted of certain crimes: the conviction ground. This power may superficially appear to balance judicial oversight and ministerial power, but there are some significant concerns and unanswered questions.It is actually a form of mandatory sentencing, power akin to parliament-imposed jail terms. The conviction-ground also takes no account of age, involvement in the offence (for example if you were an unwilling accessory after the fact) or other mitigating circumstances.As with all mandatory punishments, it privileges some offences over others. Why are these crimes more deserving of loss of citizenship than others? Why is terrorist conduct involving the compilation of training material worse than the conduct of a husband who murders his wife, or throws his child off a bridge to their death? In both cases a person has failed to \u201cuphold and obey\u201d the laws of Australia, as they commit to in the Pledge of Allegiance, but in only one case is revocation of citizenship an available punishment.Finally, the bill is silent on what happens if a person\u2019s conviction is quashed or overturned on appeal. While it is clear that a person loses their citizenship immediately upon conviction, and that a person who loses their citizenship under the wartime, conduct or conviction ground can never become a citizen again, it fails to provide for a person\u2019s citizenship to be reinstated should their conviction be overturned.So what will the high court say when this law is challenged? It most certainly will be. Given the uncharted waters Australia is entering with these laws I am not brave enough to venture an answer. However, by making the revocation of citizenship automatic, the law does not resolve the separation of powers issue that forced a change in the government\u2019s plan. Rather than it being the minister exercising judicial power, under the draft bill it is now the parliament \u2013 something no less unacceptable under our system of government. By determining rights and duties (citizenship) and imposing a penalty on the basis of certain facts being established without the involvement of a judicial hearing, the law is arguably unconstitutional.More importantly, this law fails to answer a central question in this debate: why should some citizens be entitled to escape justice? By revoking citizenship we renounce our own ability to bring a person to justice for breaking our laws. As citizens we agree to be bound by Australian laws, and to submit to the jurisdiction of Australian courts if we break them. If an Australian commits non-terror related murder (say domestic violence) we punish them in our courts because that is the compact between citizen and state: protection provided by the latter in return for allegiance. The \u201callegiance to Australia\u201d bill ultimately weakens, rather than strengthens, that bond. ", "tags": ["Australian law", "Australian intelligence agencies", "Australian security and counter-terrorism", "Peter Dutton", "George Brandis", "Australian politics", "Australia news"], "title": "The 'allegiance to Australia' bill: arguably unconstitutional, definitely questionable | Tim Vines"},{"date": "2015-04-07T06:05:48Z", "country": "australia", "content": "", "tags": ["Australia news", "Islam", "Sharia law"], "title": "A racist carrot reclaims Australia | First Dog on the Moon"},{"date": "2015-06-17T10:17:42Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Indonesia and Australia are embroiled in a diplomatic row over allegations that people smugglers were bribed at sea by Australian officials to turn their boats around.In a dramatic few days of revelations, the Indonesians have put on display tens of thousands of US dollars that it alleges Australia paid to smugglers in May and paraded a smuggler captain who detailed how Australian spies bribed him at sea to turn back. Related: Did Australia pay people-smugglers to turn back asylum seekers? Australia\u2019s foreign minister, Julie Bishop, rejected the accusations on Monday by suggesting that Indonesia was to blame for failing to secure its borders in the first place.Indonesian police then released photos of what they say is US$31,000 (\u00a319,600) that they accuse Australian authorities of using to persuade smugglers to turn around a boat carrying 65 migrants.A police interview was conducted on Wednesday in front of media with Yohanis Humiang, the boat\u2019s captain. Humiang said an Australian navy warship and an Australian customs ship intercepted his boat, the Andika, on 19 May, according to excerpts from the interview published in the Sydney Morning Herald.\"If such payments were made, the government is pouring more sugar on the table for people smugglers\"Humiang was quoted as saying that an Australian official called \u201cAgus\u201d paid him and five other crew members thousands of dollars not to continue their voyage, which he said was to New Zealand, after he pleaded that he was trying to earn a living. If his claims are proven, experts believe Australia will have broken international, Indonesian and Australian law.Gen Endang Sunjaya, police chief of Nusa Tenggara Timur province in Indonesia, told reporters on Wednesday that the man who paid the smugglers was a plainclothes Australian spy.The boat was was escorted to Greenhill Island in the Northern Territory, the smuggler said, and the asylum seekers were photographed. The crew and the asylum seekers then spent a night on the customs ship. They were given two wooden boats, with some fuel and a GPS, and told to head back, he said.One boat ran out of fuel and the second crashed into a reef before those on board were rescued near Rote Island by Indonesian authorities at the end of May, police and the smuggler said on Wednesday.The Australian government has invoked its \u201con-water matters\u201d secrecy rule to defend its failure to comprehensively answer the claims. Pressed in parliament to respond to the allegations, the Australian prime minister, Tony Abbott, on Wednesday accused the opposition Labor party of asking \u201ctawdry\u201d questions.\u201cNot only is what this government has done legal, it is moral; it is absolutely moral, because the most moral thing to do is to stop the boats and save lives,\u201d he said.The reports have renewed tensions between Australia and Indonesia. Australia\u2019s ambassador, Paul Grigson, returned to his post in Jakarta only last week, five weeks after being pulled out in protest over the execution of two Australians who were among eight convicted drug smugglers.Abbott said last Wednesday that executions of the two citizens would not permanently damage relations with Indonesia.Indonesia\u2019s foreign ministry has launched an investigation into the allegations of using cash to turn around smugglers. \u201c[IF] it turns out to be true, it would be a new low for the way the government of Australia handles the situation on irregular migration,\u201d Indonesian foreign ministry spokesman, Armanatha Nasir, said.Vedi Hadiz, professor of Asian Societies and Politics at Murdoch University in Australia, said that following public outrage from Australia at the execution of its citizens in Indonesia, Jakarta has used reports of Canberra collaborating with people smugglers to hit back.\u201cIndonesia is genuinely annoyed that its own national sovereignty is being breached by people smugglers who are financed by Australian tax money,\u201d he told the Guardian on Wednesday.\u201c[But] it is an opportunity for the Indonesians to say: \u2018Look, it is the Australians who are turning back boats, are putting people in detention centres and are actually paying criminals. Which one of us is actually the transgressor of international norms?\u201d he said.Abbott has neither confirmed nor denied the allegation. He has said he was \u201cconfident that at all times Australian agencies have acted within the law\u201d.\u201cThere\u2019s really only one thing to say here, and that is that we\u2019ve stopped the boats. That\u2019s good for Australia, it\u2019s good for Indonesia and it\u2019s particularly good for all those who want to see a better world,\u201d he told reporters in Canberra on Sunday.These comments further enraged Jakarta, Hadiz said, in so far as Abbott was \u201cbasically ignoring Indonesian concerns about state funding criminal activity within their waters\u201d.Elaine Pearson, Australia director at Human Rights Watch, told the Guardian that the allegations show \u201can utter disregard for Australia\u2019s obligations under international law\u201d.\u201cAlthough we do not have the facts about what exactly transpired at sea, cash payments to boat crews could facilitate people-smuggling, which would violate Indonesian, Australia and international law,\u201d she said in an emailed statement.\u201cIn the past, the Australian prime minister has talked about taking sugar off the table for people smugglers, but if such payments were made, the government is pouring more sugar on the table for people smugglers by creating cash incentives for people to come to Australian waters.\u201dMark Getchell, the International Organisation for Migration\u2019s chief of mission in Indonesia, told the Guardian that Australia\u2019s Operation Sovereign Borders, which aims to stop maritime arrivals of asylum seekers by enforcing a policy of zero-tolerance, has had some success.\u201cWe haven\u2019t really seen boats leaving since December 2014 because word has gotten around that they are being turned back.\u201d he said on Wednesday. He said the IOM has noticed that very few boats are now leaving Indonesia. He said human smuggling boats are stopped by Australian authorities, given life jackets, fuel and food and told to return to Indonesia.Under Operation Sovereign Borders, asylum seekers who try to enter Australia are turned back or moved to detention centres offshore across the Pacific and are told that they will never be resettled in Australia.Getchell said he had not heard of other smugglers being paid to return and that if the allegations are proven correct, it would be an \u201cisolated incident\u201d.\u201cThis is a rare instance of people smugglers testing the waters again,\u201d he said on the telephone from Jakarta.The asylum seekers on board were mostly from Sri Lanka, but also Bangladesh and one from Burma.", "tags": ["Indonesia", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "United Nations", "Migration"], "title": "Indonesia accuses Australia of bribing people smugglers"},{"date": "2015-04-20T01:42:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "It\u2019s 7am on a Sunday morning and I\u2019m standing bleary-eyed by the side of the road in inner-Sydney Redfern, waiting for a bus armed only with a bottle of water, a pen knife and a basket.We are heading south to a nearby state forest to engage in a distinctly northern hemisphere custom: picking mushrooms in a pine forest.\u201cWhat I teach is a distinctly imported practice, for an imported mushroom,\u201d says our group\u2019s moustachioed leader, Diego Bonetto, who\u2019s learnt how to read both field and forest for food since his childhood in northern Italy.In spring and summer, Diego hunts down greens like tender dandelion, fennel and a myriad of herbs, while autumn brings a bounty of saffron milk caps and slippery jacks, the two main types of mushrooms found in Australia\u2019s pine plantations. Come autumn, summer\u2019s mountain-bike riders and bushwalkers here are replaced by Polish and central European families, who arrive with barbecues, baskets and an eye for fungi. As with Diego, the motivation is not only a chance to score mushrooms for nothing, but also a chance to relive old traditions and most importantly, cook the old dishes.\u201cI love how out here you can be in the middle of nowhere and then you can hear Polish speaking, or German, or Croatian,\u201d he says. \u201cWhen you\u2019re in the forest and hunting mushrooms everything you say is in your language.\u201d While finding pine mushrooms can be as easy as following your ears, the one surprising thing about a pine forest is just how quiet it is. Snakes apparently don\u2019t like to slither on sharp pine needles, along with most of our native fauna. Your best bet then is to look for a decent stand of pine trees and, if there\u2019s been rain about a week before, magic can happen. Pine mushrooms have a symbiotic relationship with their host trees, and spend most of a decade developing underground before emerging to reproduce as a flower \u2013 what we know as a mushroom. This means you\u2019ll likely find them growing anywhere where pines are at least a decade old, and losing their lower limbs to reveal bare trunks. Mushroom picking and identification tours like the ones Diego runs are a good way to learn what you should and shouldn\u2019t pick, and how deadly mushrooms can mimic edible ones when they\u2019re old or sun-bleached.\u201cThe mushroom pickers mantra is when in doubt, leave it out,\u201d Diego adds.And what to do with them? A small haul makes a perfect wild mushroom ragu, slowly braised with red wine, aromatics and parmesan served over pasta or soft polenta. More than a few? Why not try making a Japanese-inspired pine mushroom rice to serve with yakitori or tempura? Too many to cook at once? Preserve them by making a mushroom confit and savour their flavour all season.But the best use of pine mushrooms is infinitely simple \u2013 roughly chop then saute gently in plenty of good butter with garlic and a little white wine. Once the wine evaporates, season to taste and add a little chopped parsley, maybe some Tabasco sauce or even Worcestershire. Serve on hot toast. \u2022 There are many deadly species of wild mushrooms and other fungi and some can appear similar to edible species. Mushroom picking should not be attempted by anyone unskilled in identifying wild species. If you are interested in foraging for mushrooms, join a guided tour such as one of the ones below: Diego Bonetto wild mushroom foraging workshop: next available date is 10 May, cost: $99 or two people for $180.Similar tours in Melbourne include:http://autumnharvest.com.au/tours/http://mushroomtours.com/", "tags": ["Foraging", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Foraging for wild mushrooms in Australia"},{"date": "2015-06-30T05:56:43Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Now and again you hear talk of a rapprochement, or even cooperation between libertarians and the left. This chatter usually starts with lefties rather than libertarians themselves, who are, for all their flaws, not predisposed to compromises or half-measures. Related: Dear Bill Shorten: you're the opposition leader, not me. It's time to drop your soft bipartisanship | David Leyonhjelm The story goes that we share some common ground. Sure, libertarians want to gut what remains of the welfare state, give free rein to hate speech and tilt the industrial relations balance in favour of employers. But wait: many of them want to allow people to die with dignity. They often support same-sex marriage. Oh, and they are relaxed about weed. In the mid 2000s, many were impressed by the libertarian stance against neocon-inspired wars. More recently, they\u2019ve been seen to oppose misguided attempts at internet censorship and the seemingly limitless extension of the national security state. What if we could find a way to work together\u2026Thoughts such as these led progressives in the US to help out with Ron Paul\u2019s presidential campaigns. It even led some to cautiously welcome the accidental election of David Leyonhjelm to a position of potential influence in a divided Australian Senate.My suggestion would be that when it comes to support, we should pay on results. Leyonhjelm offers a real-world example of a self-declared libertarian with power. So it\u2019s relevant to ask what his tenure so far tells us about the degree to which there are in fact shared values to be built on. Is Leyonhjelm a friend or a foe? On the debit side of the ledger, he has consistently voted and spoken against the expansion of surveillance and has also generally opposed more draconian anti-terrorist measures on free speech grounds. It hasn\u2019t stopped the massive expansion of Australia\u2019s security state under Tony Abbott, but if we hold that against him, we\u2019d have to hold it against the Greens as well. .@KetanJ0 I don't think it's honourable to take taxpayer funds unless you're poor. Wind companies ain't poor.Unfortunately, it\u2019s difficult to point to very much beyond the failed effort to rein in this expansion of state power. And I think almost everything else he\u2019s done has been pernicious. For one thing, his crucial support has helped deliver an inquiry into windfarms, concocted on the basis of their alleged health effects, and conceived in order to delegitimise renewable energy and delay its implementation. No reputable scientist takes this link seriously. And a Twitter conversation between Ketan Joshi, a renewable energy expert who works for the wind industry, and Leyonhjelm\u2019s adviser Helen Dale, hints that perhaps the Senator\u2019s office doesn\u2019t either. Of health fears over windfarms, Dale tweeted that \u201cIf I can use them to get the far more damaging industry policy dumped, I will\u201d \u2013 in other words, the inquiry is useful if it shuts down a policy that libertarians find objectionable for reasons that aren\u2019t related to health.So it\u2019s not just that they are regressive on renewable energy, but that they may be willing to violate a basic norm of democratic respect to shut down, or stonewall, a component of renewable energy. There are many other examples of Leyonhjelm hobbling or trying to dismantle progressive policy. He voted for defunding public broadcasting, welfare cuts, privatisation and fracking. He voted against bans on supertrawlers and investing in renewables. Perhaps most disturbing, though, are Leyonhjelm\u2019s views on Indigenous Australians. It\u2019s not so much his substantive view on the subject of constitutional recognition, as the reason he gives for holding it.Last Friday \u2013 and not for the first time \u2013 he voiced doubts that Indigenous Australians were really the first inhabitants of the continent. He talked up \u201cdebate\u201d among anthropologists as a reason for being hesitant to enshrine Indigenous pre-eminence in the constitution. The closest you\u2019ll come to any serious debate about this question is Keith Windschuttle and Tim Gillin\u2019s attempt in 2002 to revive mid-20th century stories about the racial distinctiveness of the \u201cpygmies\u201d of north Queensland and Tasmania. For a while in the 1930s and 1940s a small number of anthropologists, influenced by outmoded ideas of durable racial purity, argued that these populations were remnants of a people who had been displaced by Aborigines. Fatefully, this idea made it into some textbooks and received a wider dissemination. For Windschuttle, the disappearance of the \u201cpygmy\u201d theory was evidence that it had been supressed for political reasons. The truth is that the theory has disappeared from view because there is no evidence to support it. There\u2019s no contemporary debate about this among anthropologists at all, despite slight returns of the theory of Aborigines as invaders, due to mistaken genetic analysis and misread rock paintings. What all this suggests, along with his participation in the windfarm inquiry, is a propensity to believe in fringe rightwing ideas, especially when they are ideologically convenient. Claims of windfarm syndrome could be handy if you don\u2019t want to see any investment in renewable energy. In the same way, crackpot anthropology is useful if you want to deny or excuse the fact that most Australian real estate was secured by theft and murder. Nothing is deadlier to the idea that economic success simply flows to those who deserve it than the reality of what\u2019s called \u201cprimitive accumulation\u201d \u2013 the act of forcing indigenous or premodern populations into capitalism (think back to the industrial revolution). That\u2019s why people like Keith Windschuttle spend so much time and energy denying that any violence happened at all on Australia\u2019s frontier. The provenance of these ideas tell us something important about the senator, too. It seems that mentally, he inhabits the same half-lit world we glimpse in the comment threads of rightwing blog Catallaxy, and the yellowing back issues of Quadrant.  Related: David Leyonhjelm is neither a champion nor a villain. He's a libertarian | Eleanor Robertson I would respectfully disagree with those, like Eleanor Robertson, who argue that libertarianism is basically a transplant in Australian political life. It\u2019s rather the case that there is no Australian tradition that contemporary, US-influenced libertarians are very keen to claim. Yet people like Leyonhjelm exemplify a form of business populism that, in parts of provincial Australia, thrives like lantana. Flat-taxing and Canberra-bashing, given to kooky theories, and committed above all to something called \u201cdevelopment\u201d \u2013 it\u2019s a common philosophy among those who think that their stint in small to medium enterprise gives them unique insights and entitlements. It\u2019s been on display for a long time, among white shoe Nationals, the rank and file of the IPA, and the letters page of the Australian. Leyonhjelm is a perfect exemplar of this bumptious tradition. Such an attitude can never be an ally of the Australian left, because it is what the Australian left exists to fight against.", "tags": ["David Leyonhjelm", "Human rights", "Renewable energy", "Wind power", "Indigenous Australians", "Environment"], "title": "Libertarians aren't our allies in building a progressive Australia | Jason Wilson"},{"date": "2015-06-24T07:23:09Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The lead up to the introduction of the patriotically-named \u201callegiance to Australia\u201d bill has been marked by debate around whether any such law would be constitutional, or would breach the separation of powers by giving the ministers judge-like powers.Unfortunately, in its efforts to guard against this unconstitutional outcome, the Abbott government has forgotten that a third branch of government exists alongside the executive and judiciary \u2013 the legislature \u2013 and that it too is prohibited from exercising judicial powers. There is a real risk the new law amounts to parliament imposing a sentence and punishment on an individual, an equally unconstitutional outcome. Whether the law is constitutional is only one question though. Arguably, more important ones should be the focus of attention. Related: Citizenship could be stripped for damaging commonwealth property In essence, the Australian citizenship amendment (allegiance to Australia) bill will, if passed, revoke the citizenship of dual citizens who:The first ground \u2013 let\u2019s call it wartime renunciation \u2013 is very similar to existing law, but fighting for or in the service of a proscribed terrorist organisation will now be grounds for automatic loss of Australian citizenship. While lawyers will quibble over the meanings of terms both parties are likely to support these changes. That the fighting or service also has to occur overseas means that it is less likely to be the focus of attention (although it should be closely scrutinised by parliament).As a new reform, the minister can stop a person automatically losing their citizenship (some relief to dual Australian-Kurds fighting against the Islamic State (Isis) overseas) but the power is 100% discretionary. The minister is not obliged to act, nor follow the rules of natural justice, nor does he or she even need to wait for a final Asio security assessment before acting (or not).Under the second ground, a dual citizen would lose Australian citizenship if they did certain things including: engaging in a terrorist act; providing or receiving training connected with preparation for, engagement in, or assistance in a terrorist act; or financing terrorism or financing a terrorist.While these acts sound fairly clear, anti-terror laws passed since 2001 have been incredibly broad. While fortunately, the vaguest terror offence \u2013 \u201cpossession of a thing connected with a terrorist act\u201d \u2013 is not grounds for citizenship revocation, there are significant issues with this conduct ground.It\u2019s not clear whether a person needs to intend to engage in any of these activities before their citizenship is revoked. Someone who puts on the uniform of another country in a time of war knows what they are doing, but will people lose their citizenship because part of their donation to a Gaza Relief fund ended up with a terrorist organisation? Would a person who, unwisely perhaps, \u201cliked\u201d a radical Facebook group which posted instructional videos on how to use small arms, or web-links to old resources like the Anarchist\u2019s Cookbook, lose their citizenship? The next question: who is a \u201cterrorist\u201d? Is it a fluid concept (like in the Criminal Code) or is it confined to people the government has declared are terrorists? If it\u2019s the latter, then at least there is certainty \u2013 unless the government gets its wish to make the laws retrospective. In that case, a person could never be sure that someone they gave money to (including family members) is not going to be later declared a terrorist. Remember Thatcher\u2019s designation of Mandela as a terrorist? Some individuals move between criteria.As with the wartime ground, the minister will have discretion to prevent someone losing their citizenship, although the usual caveats about natural justice apply (ie, there is none). The proposed law also doesn\u2019t set out a way for someone to challenge a finding that they engaged in proscribed conduct (indeed, the law is silent on who finds out that a person is engaging in this conduct). Will they have a full review before the courts? If not, then is this a case of parliament adjudicating on an individual\u2019s guilt and imposing a sentence? The high court has ruled that such laws, so called bills of pains and penalties, are unconstitutional at a national level.Until the questions around level of intent and avenues for appeal are addressed, the second conduct ground \u2013 engaging in terrorist conduct \u2013 remains dangerously vague and possibly unconstitutional. It should certainly not be made retrospective.Finally, a dual citizen will lose Australian citizenship if convicted of certain crimes: the conviction ground. This power may superficially appear to balance judicial oversight and ministerial power, but there are some significant concerns and unanswered questions.It is actually a form of mandatory sentencing, power akin to parliament-imposed jail terms. The conviction-ground also takes no account of age, involvement in the offence (for example if you were an unwilling accessory after the fact) or other mitigating circumstances.As with all mandatory punishments, it privileges some offences over others. Why are these crimes more deserving of loss of citizenship than others? Why is terrorist conduct involving the compilation of training material worse than the conduct of a husband who murders his wife, or throws his child off a bridge to their death? In both cases a person has failed to \u201cuphold and obey\u201d the laws of Australia, as they commit to in the Pledge of Allegiance, but in only one case is revocation of citizenship an available punishment.Finally, the bill is silent on what happens if a person\u2019s conviction is quashed or overturned on appeal. While it is clear that a person loses their citizenship immediately upon conviction, and that a person who loses their citizenship under the wartime, conduct or conviction ground can never become a citizen again, it fails to provide for a person\u2019s citizenship to be reinstated should their conviction be overturned.So what will the high court say when this law is challenged? It most certainly will be. Given the uncharted waters Australia is entering with these laws I am not brave enough to venture an answer. However, by making the revocation of citizenship automatic, the law does not resolve the separation of powers issue that forced a change in the government\u2019s plan. Rather than it being the minister exercising judicial power, under the draft bill it is now the parliament \u2013 something no less unacceptable under our system of government. By determining rights and duties (citizenship) and imposing a penalty on the basis of certain facts being established without the involvement of a judicial hearing, the law is arguably unconstitutional.More importantly, this law fails to answer a central question in this debate: why should some citizens be entitled to escape justice? By revoking citizenship we renounce our own ability to bring a person to justice for breaking our laws. As citizens we agree to be bound by Australian laws, and to submit to the jurisdiction of Australian courts if we break them. If an Australian commits non-terror related murder (say domestic violence) we punish them in our courts because that is the compact between citizen and state: protection provided by the latter in return for allegiance. The \u201callegiance to Australia\u201d bill ultimately weakens, rather than strengthens, that bond. ", "tags": ["Australian law", "Australian intelligence agencies", "Australian security and counter-terrorism", "Peter Dutton", "George Brandis", "Australian politics", "Australia news"], "title": "The 'allegiance to Australia' bill: arguably unconstitutional, definitely questionable | Tim Vines"},{"date": "2015-06-29T06:04:34Z", "country": "australia", "content": "", "tags": ["Australian security and counter-terrorism", "Australia news", "Tony Abbott"], "title": "Keep Australia safe, by having your citizenship checked regularly | First Dog on the Moon"},{"date": "2015-09-12T23:49:52Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Vodafone Australia has admitted an employee hacked a journalist\u2019s phone records in an attempt to uncover her sources for stories, but the telecommunications company denies any \u201cimproper behaviour\u201d, despite internal emails suggesting it deliberately misled authorities about systemic privacy breaches.In 2011, after a series of stories by Fairfax journalist Natalie O\u2019Brien detailing grave security lapses in Vodafone\u2019s Siebel data system, a Vodafone employee accessed her phone call and text message records in an attempt to uncover company whistleblowers.O\u2019Brien \u2013 herself a Vodafone customer \u2013 reported that Vodafone\u2019s Siebel data system was vulnerable to hacking, and that the data of millions of customers was available online and easily accessible through generic passwords that were being shared around the company and publicly.Customers\u2019 home addresses, driver\u2019s licences and credit card details were all available online, O\u2019Brien wrote, and criminal groups were paying for customers\u2019 private information. Related: Mobile phones hacked: can the NSA and GCHQ listen to all our phone calls? The day after the story broke, a Vodafone employee accessed O\u2019Brien phone records and trawled through the data in order to find out who might have been leaking her information.Writing in the Sun-Herald, O\u2019Brien said she had been devastated by the invasion of privacy.\u201cIt\u2019s a creepy nauseating experience to know that someone has been trawling through your mobile phone account looking at all your call records and private text messages.\u201cThe invasion of privacy is devasting. It plays with your mind. What was in those texts? Who were they to? What did they see? What did they do with the information?\u201dShe said the stories she wrote were \u201cin the public interest\u201d, and the vulnerability in Vodafone\u2019s system serious enough that both the Information and Privacy Commissioner and the Australian Communications and Media Authority launched independent investigations.\u201cThe shock and anger is only compounded knowing it was because I was doing my job that I was targeted and it was my own telco that was doing it to me. Since when did telling the truth become the wrong thing to do?\u201dAn internal Vodafone email, reported by the Australian, shows the company was aware of the extent of the security breaches and the potential legal and reputation damage of hacking a journalist\u2019s phone.The head of fraud management and investigations for Vodafone Group, Colin Yates, wrote to then global corporate security director Richard Knowlton that there was a \u201chuge risk\u201d to the company if the hacking of O\u2019Brien\u2019s phone \u201cgets into the public domain\u201d.\u201cIf the issue relating to breaching the reporter\u2019s privacy by searching her private call records and text messages gets into the public domain, this could have \u00adserious consequences given it is a breach of the Australian Telecommunications Act,\u201d Yates wrote.\u201cAnd would certainly des\u00adtroy all of the work done by VHA [Vodafone Hutchison Australia] over the past months to try and restore their reputation.\u201dThe Yates email also suggests the company covered up the extent of the Siebel security breaches from the public and industry regulators.Following the series of stories, Vodafone executives allegedly \u201ctold the press, the NSW Privacy Commissioner and other high-profile Australian agencies that the breach was a one-off incident\u201d, Yates wrote to Knowlton.\u201cAs you know this is in fact not the case and VHA has been suffering these breaches since Siebel went live and did nothing or very little to close off the weaknesses that allowed them to occur.\u201dIn a statement issued Saturday, a Vodafone spokeswoman said the company \u201cstrongly denies any allegations of improper behaviour. VHA takes its legal and corporate responsibilities very seriously\u201d.\u201cOver the past four years, VHA has invested heavily in the security of its IT systems. The company has very strict controls and processes around the privacy of customer information, and has appointed a dedicated privacy officer. The privacy of our customers and protection of their information is our highest priority and we take this responsibility very seriously.\u201dThe spokeswoman said Vodafone cooperated fully with the Privacy Commissioner\u2019s investigation. \u201cWe deny that Vodafone Hutchison Australia made any incorrect statements to the Privacy Commissioner or any other authorities.\u201dVodafone said it became aware of the hacking of O\u2019Brien\u2019s phone in June 2012.\u201cVodafone Hutchison Australia immediately commissioned an investigation by one of Australia\u2019s top accounting firms. The investigation found there was no evidence VHA management had instructed the employee to access the messages and that VHA staff were fully aware of their legal obligations in relation to customer information.\u201d", "tags": ["Vodafone", "Australia news", "Telecommunications industry", "Privacy"], "title": "Vodafone Australia admits hacking Fairfax journalist's phone"},{"date": "2015-12-01T17:42:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Guardian Small Business Network and Kia are offering one small business owner two tickets to the Australian Open men\u2019s singles semi-final in celebration of the launch of the All-New Kia Optima.The tennis tournament is taking place in Melbourne and the prize comes with return flights from London (with a flexible return date) and three nights accommodation. The itinerary for the trip is as follows: Day 1: 26 January (Tuesday) Arrival: Transportation provided (airport to hotel) Lunch/dinner (at the hotel restaurant) Day 2: 27 January (Wednesday) 08:30 \u2013 17:00: Group tour (tour spots to be decided) 18:30 \u2013 20:30: Welcome dinner Day 3: 28 January (Thursday) 07:30 \u2013 09:30: Tennis clinic (optional) 9:30 \u2013 17:00: Free tour17:30 \u2013 19:30: Dinner19:30: Men\u2019s singles semi-final match viewing Day 4: 29 January (Friday) Departure: Transportation provided (hotel to airport), and lunch (from the hotel restaurant) Click here to read the Small Business Australia Open Prize Draw Terms and Conditions. To be in with a chance of winning, fill in the form below: ", "tags": ["Australia Open Prize Draw", "Accessing expertise"], "title": "Small business Australia Open prize draw"},{"date": "2015-12-01T17:42:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Guardian Small Business Network and Kia are offering one small business owner two tickets to the Australian Open men\u2019s singles semi-final in celebration of the launch of the All-New Kia Optima.The tennis tournament is taking place in Melbourne and the prize comes with return flights from London (with a flexible return date) and three nights accommodation. The itinerary for the trip is as follows: Day 1: 26 January (Tuesday) Arrival: Transportation provided (airport to hotel) Lunch/dinner (at the hotel restaurant) Day 2: 27 January (Wednesday) 08:30 \u2013 17:00: Group tour (tour spots to be decided) 18:30 \u2013 20:30: Welcome dinner Day 3: 28 January (Thursday) 07:30 \u2013 09:30: Tennis clinic (optional) 9:30 \u2013 17:00: Free tour17:30 \u2013 19:30: Dinner19:30: Men\u2019s singles semi-final match viewing Day 4: 29 January (Friday) Departure: Transportation provided (hotel to airport), and lunch (from the hotel restaurant) Click here to read the Small Business Australia Open Prize Draw Terms and Conditions. To be in with a chance of winning, fill in the form below: ", "tags": ["Australia Open Prize Draw", "Accessing expertise"], "title": "Small business Australia Open prize draw"},{"date": "2015-10-30T00:26:20Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In 1998 the novelist David Malouf celebrated Australians\u2019 discovery of a style he called \u201cloosely Mediterranean\u201d, one he thought epitomised by people eating at pavement tables. But where they dined was only the beginning of it. Australians now ate dainty and stylish dishes, drank wine and dressed up or stripped off for display. They had come to accept their own bodies and were thoroughly at ease in enjoying themselves. Australia, he said, had become a place \u201cwhere play seems natural, and pleasure a part of what living is for\u201d \u2013 a contrast with what he saw as the more limited possibilities in the British and Irish Australia of his youth.The 1980s was the critical decade in the emergence of this way of living, thinking and feeling and, as Malouf recognised, the country\u2019s foodways were among the most vivid illustration of a new cosmopolitan sensibility. \u201cDo not overload any meal with cream or butter,\u201d the Melbourne chef Stephanie Alexander advised, as she went about her mission of dismantling notions of taste entrenched by almost 200 years of chops, stews and roasts. Alexander emphasised cooking with fresh and seasonal ingredients, a larger number of small courses rather than the piling up of large portions, and the idea of a meal as a \u201cceremony\u201d that had \u201ca beginning, a middle and an end\u201d. Related: Smashed avo, anyone? Five Australian creations taking the world by storm As Malouf had suggested, restaurant dining had become one easily recognisable mark of the new refinement, a turning of the back on the world of beer, pies and blue singlets. Victorians could from 1987 even buy alcohol in caf\u00e9s and restaurants without ordering a meal as well; such a community clearly had the world at its feet. The cosmopolitan citizen could tell her Shiraz from her Cabernet Sauvignon and knew how to pronounce both focaccia and roulade. Salad, meanwhile, was no longer shorthand for iceberg lettuce, sliced tomatoes and grated carrot. Alfalfa, chives, snow peas and mustard cress now graced the bowl, which might also include warm duck or lobster.\u201cEating Italian\u201d meant something more exotic than spaghetti bolognese, while with the appearance of Vietnamese, Japanese, Thai and high-quality Chinese restaurants, chicken chow mein ceased to be the Asian culinary frontier. These changes were the result of a restaurant revolution that climaxed in an increasingly sophisticated national culture of fine dining. The nouvelle cuisine was taken up in Australia but in the hands of local mimics it became synonymous with pretentious presentation, stingy portions and high prices. Yet it also \u201ctaught a lighter, fresher style of cooking\u201d and innovative restaurateurs took up the cause and adapted it to local conditions.The new cosmopolitanism also influenced what Australians were doing at home. They were embracing new and not-so-new technologies such as the microwave, the electric knife and the sandwich-maker. In many households, the venerable Sunbeam Mixmaster, possibly still wearing a floral cover, was forced to surrender to the food processor as pride of the kitchen bench. Chicken, once for a special occasion, was becoming a regular dish, regarded as healthier than red meat. Fruit juice was embraced as \u201chealthy\u201d. Pasta, once ignored as a suspect foreign dish, was becoming a staple and an expression of unpretentious cosmopolitanism. And the reverberations of the salad revolution were also to be felt in the home.Another ambiguous measure of the new cosmopolitanism was the change in Australians\u2019 drinking habits. The development of the wine industry had long been treated as a mark of civilisational sophistication, a habit that continued into the 1980s. Between 1980 and 1987, per capita consumption increased from 17.3 litres to 21.3 litres, while there was a spectacular growth of exports from 1986, stimulated by the low dollar \u2013 they tripled in volume between 1986 and 1988. On the eastern seaboard of the United States, the arrival of good-quality bottled wine presented a new and unfamiliar image of a country known mainly through the recent success of Crocodile Dundee; Walkabout Creek seemed an unlikely place to find a nice glass of chardonnay. In Australia, cheap cask wine accounted for almost two-thirds of table wine sold, and white wine was four times as popular as red, but tastes were becoming drier as Chardonnay came to replace Riesling as the most favoured drop. Wine cooler \u2013 a mixture of wine and fruit juice \u2013 enjoyed popularity especially among young women for whom it was a sweet, cheap road to oblivion. Boutique or pub-brewed beers provided a means of combining cosmopolitan sophistication, contempt for Alan Bond and John Elliott, and the love of drink still most commonly associated with the old Australia.The cosmopolitan identity of the inner city needed a b\u00eate noire.The cosmopolitan identity of the inner city needed a b\u00eate noire, and in Sydney, a city with well-differentiated regions of affluence and poverty, this position was occupied by \u201cwesties \u2013 who are dags because they wear jeans on the beach and always bring an esky\u201d. The term \u201cbogan\u201d, emerging in the mid-1980s, lacked a specific regional flavour, but it too provided a way to talk about class differences as a matter of cultural style rather than material deprivation \u2013 in a society that still nurtured the idea that anyone prepared to \u201chave a go\u201d would do nicely. Without cosmopolitanism, there could have been no bogan or westie, for these identities took their meaning from their relationship with one another. To be cosmopolitan was to hold a licence for commentary on the taste of those seen to lack cultural savoir faire. Yet popular culture continued to celebrate lifestyles and identities that maintained some distance from the new cosmopolitanism. Two of the most spectacularly successful Australian cultural products of the era drew on older identities supposedly being swept away by the advent of urbanity.When a new television soap opera Neighbours began its career in 1985, TV Week declared it \u201cour own Coronation Street\u201d, in a reference to the long-running British soap. Neighbours, however, was from the outset quite different, being filmed not in a proletarian street but the middle-class Melbourne suburb of Vermont, the fictional Ramsay Street, Erinsborough. The new cosmopolitans who hung around hip precincts such as Brunswick Street in Melbourne and Oxford Street in Sydney might have thought of suburbia as daggy, but Neighbours was a quiet celebration of the Australian suburb at a time when it remained the setting for most people\u2019s lives. Yet Ramsay Street was also a long way from most Australians\u2019 experiences of suburban life, having more in common with a village. Erinsborough was not a dormitory suburb in which the tired commuter sought refuge after a busy day in the office, but an intimate community where people lived, loved and (occasionally) laboured without seeming to need very much that the rest of the world had to offer. Suburbia, as depicted in Neighbours, was a place of community, social drama and, above all, nice-looking young people with tanned skin and perfect teeth.Neighbours presented an image of Australia somewhat out of time. It was white, even Anglo, in an era when most Australian governments promoted the virtues of a multicultural citizenry. A British-based Aboriginal poet and filmmaker, Rikki Shields, argued that the introduction of an Aboriginal character into the show would do much to advance the cause of his people \u201cbecause then everyone could see that we are Australian too\u201d. Yet \u201cit is quite unthinkable that the ravaged countenance of an Australian black could suddenly pop up on Neighbours\u201d, judged Germaine Greer, possibly indulging in a bit of stereotyping of her own. \u201cIf a gang of Aborigines were to camp on one of those manicured lawns, and pass around the flagon, the good neighbourliness would evaporate long before anyone actually relieved himself in the shrubbery.\u201d Neighbours certainly projected a nostalgic view of Australia, one largely unaffected by the migrations of the 1940s to 1960s, let alone those from Asia since the 1970s. \u201cHow many wogs are there in Neighbours?\u201d asked the actor Arky Michael: the answer was very few.Neighbours had only one rival as \u201cshowbiz surprise of the decade\u201d. The global success of the film Crocodile Dundee astonished critics, if not the supremely confident duo of Paul Hogan and John Cornell responsible for unleashing it on the world. In Australia, it surpassed the American film ET as the largest grossing film on record; in the United States, where Hogan had appeared in several cities as the face of Australian tourism promising \u201cto slip an extra shrimp on the barbie\u201d, it became the second-highest grossing film of 1986 behind Top Gun, as well as the most commercially successful foreign film of all time.With a budget of $8.8m \u2013 high for an Australian film, much of it put up by Hogan and Cornell themselves \u2013 after just a few weeks in American cinemas it had already earned $114.3m. Audiences loved the simple story of a legendary crocodile hunter from the Australian outback who meets a visiting American journalist, Sue Charlton (Linda Kozlowski), when she visits Walkabout Creek in pursuit of a story. After a few days in the Kakadu region of the Northern Territory, where Mick \u2013 among other things \u2013 saves Sue from the clutches of a hungry crocodile, the story moves to New York. Much of the humour then turns on Dundee \u2013 a noble savage at once wise and innocent \u2013 being dropped into the urban jungle, where his adventures include trying to work out the purpose of the bidet in his plush hotel. In the show\u2019s most famous scene, Mick and Sue are threatened with a knife by a hoodlum who wants Mick\u2019s wallet. \u201cThat\u2019s not a knife,\u201d proclaims a relaxed and laughing Mick, pulling out a huge concealed blade of his own. \u201cThat\u2019s a knife.\u201dIt was easy to see why Americans liked it: their country\u2019s problems, it seemed, might yet be solved by an antipodean Davy Crockett with a big knife. The hero from the Australian outback had a homely solution to every problem raised by an overgrown city and an over-civilised society. Thugs, pimps, petty thieves, cocaine addicts, transvestites, pretentious eastern intellectuals: Mick takes them all on, with knife, punch, grope, avuncular demonstration or tin can aimed unerringly at a bag-snatcher\u2019s head. No one is immune to his charm, while he seems to enjoy the quirks he discovers among the New York natives. Robert Hughes, the Australian expatriate art critic, concluded that \u201cthe reason Americans like such a flagrant example of Australian kitsch is the same reason Australians like it: Americans feel nostalgia for the vanished frontier which they think survives in Australia, but of course it\u2019s disappeared there, too\u201d. Some criticised the film for its outdated stereotypes, as well as for its conservative \u2013 or at least complacent \u2013 politics. But what these critics missed was the way the figure of Mick Dundee, for all his supposedly primitive ways, embodied a cosmopolitan present.Crocodile Dundee is often compared with an earlier Australian \u201cfish out of water\u201d comedy, The Adventures of Barry McKenzie, where the humour depends so largely on Barry\u2019s antipodean gaucheries in the mother country. But Mick was a very different kind of figure from Barry: rural rather than urban; more assured in dealing with women, the bourgeois and the educated; innocent, like Barry, but combining with it the cleverness of the trickster. Above all, Mick had a touch of class; he was able to hold his own in polite company, and life was for him something more than the quest for the next Foster\u2019s. As Hogan himself explained: \u201cCrocodile Dundee never loses his dignity. Even if he is naive and uneducated, he doesn\u2019t make a melon of himself all the time. He\u2019s got some grace.\u201dThe international success of Australian film and television might have reassured many Australians at a time when Paul Keating was warning of their possible fate as citizens of a banana republic. Yet the essentially familiar, sunny and optimistic tone of Neighbours and Crocodile Dundee was seemingly belied by a strange and unexpected outbreak of national stroppiness. The angriest such explosion occurred in September 1987 and few if any members of the political class saw it coming. Some of the usual suspects were there, stirring the pot as before: Peter Garrett, the troublemaker of 1984; former Treasury secretary John Stone, now a National party senator for Queensland; Alan Jones, Rugby Union coach, media personality and Liberal party identity; Ben Lexcen, America\u2019s Cup hero-genius, recently a supporter of Joh for Canberra; even Norm Gallagher, the burly survivor of the class war and Pentridge Prison. Right and left seemed to have found common cause in opposition to the Australia Card. The idea of a compulsory identity card had emerged from the tax summit of 1985, a new weapon in the fight against tax and welfare fraud. Its passage since had been troubled, sufficiently so to have alerted a less preoccupied government that it needed to be handled with special care. In 1986 a joint select committee came out against the proposal, and the majority included one government member, John Saunderson, who argued that a system of tax file numbers would be sufficient. Still, the government persisted, despite the Senate\u2019s defeating the Australian Card Bill on two occasions. The second of these was used as the trigger for the double dissolution election of 1987, although the Australia Card barely figured in the campaign.\"The greatest danger to our freedom ... since the Japanese bombed Darwin.\u201dThis reticence would cause the government a major problem, for Hawke claimed a mandate to proceed with the bill, which he said would be considered by only the second ever joint sitting of the parliament. Opinion polling up to this point had been solidly in favour of an identity card, with at least two out of three voters supportive. Yet during September 1987, rallies, meetings and sackloads of mail indicated a major revolt. A Perth protest on 23 September attracted between 20,000 and 40,000 people, and brought together state Liberal party politicians and builders\u2019 labourers carrying the Eureka Flag, mothers pushing strollers and goosestepping youths dressed in Nazi-style uniforms, who displayed pictures of Bob Hawke wearing a Hitler moustache. The rally ended with an emotional rendition of \u201cAdvance Australia Fair\u201d: \u201cthe identity card has clearly struck a raw nerve\u201d, concluded the West Australian. It had. On 19 September, the Australian reported that since the beginning of the month it had received over 800 letters on the subject, with the proportion of 17-to-one against. Polling by this time showed a clear majority wanted the Australia Card to go away. Some proponents of the card compared the noisy clamour to the hostility the government had faced over its fringe benefits and capital gains taxes, but it is hard to believe that too many really believed this. Such taxes affected the few rather than the many and did not touch on questions of identity, rights and tradition. Related: Mass surveillance makes us subjects of the state. That's chilling | Richard Ackland In the Australia Card revolt, citizens protested against \u201cthis drastic change to our way of life\u201d, about a proposal \u201ctotalitarian in concept\u201d, about an instrument for making the state \u201cour master, rather than our servant\u201d. In an age when the microchip was both increasingly ubiquitous yet still little understood, they worried over the dangers to their privacy from prying officials and skilful hackers. People also drew on the past to make sense of what their government was trying to do to them. One letter-writer in the Australian described the Australia Card as \u201cthe greatest danger to our freedom ... since the Japanese bombed Darwin\u201d while Geoffrey Blainey reminded his readers that the licences to which the Eureka rebels had objected were the identity cards of their time.Most of all, people objected to being reduced to a bit of green and gold plastic and a number. The terminology of the formidable 130-page bill itself \u2013 which referred to people as \u201cCard-subjects\u201d \u2013 invited the ridicule and contempt that rained down on it. But the bill itself was almost impossible to obtain by September 1987; such was the demand for copies that the government printer had run out. If it had been more widely circulated, it is unlikely to have assuaged public concern with its rich panoply of offences carrying large fines and prison sentences. Despite many suggestions to the contrary in national mythology, Australians usually respect lawful authority, but there are hints that civil disobedience would have resulted if the government had persisted. The scheme required the whole population to report for photographing. Birth certificates would need to be acquired from state governments, two of which \u2013 Queensland and Tasmania \u2013 announced that they would refuse to cooperate. Media outlets previously supportive or indifferent turned against the government in its hour of need. Hawke\u2019s problem was that having used the Australia Card as a pretext for an early election, he could not easily back away; and having for years proclaimed the card as essential in the fight against fraud \u2013 the government claimed it would save a billion dollars \u2013 he could not now drop it as unnecessary. But a way out emerged from an unlikely quarter.Ewart Smith was a retired lawyer and senior public servant with a libertarian streak, who had over time come to see the Australia Card as a \u201cmenace to our way of life\u201d. Woken in his Canberra home early on 22 September by the warbling of magpies, he re-read the bill and noticed that it contained a line which required a regulation to be passed to bring the card into operation, even after approval by a joint sitting of the parliament. This was an Achilles heel, since a regulation could be disallowed by either house and the government lacked a Senate majority. After Smith announced his discovery, the bill\u2019s opponents in the Senate, the Australian Democrats and the Coalition parties, made it clear that they were prepared to use their numbers to prevent the bill from operating. At this point, the government abandoned the bill to great rejoicing throughout the land, with Smith an unlikely St George to the Australia Card dragon. But the Australia Card affair had exposed a raw nerve of suspicion of the state, an insistence that the virtues of people and nation were cultivated and maintained despite, rather than because of, the qualities and conduct of the political class.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Culture", "Books", "History"], "title": "How Australia learned to be cosmopolitan | Frank Bongiorno"},{"date": "2015-12-01T17:42:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Guardian Small Business Network and Kia are offering one small business owner two tickets to the Australian Open men\u2019s singles semi-final in celebration of the launch of the All-New Kia Optima.The tennis tournament is taking place in Melbourne and the prize comes with return flights from London (with a flexible return date) and three nights accommodation. The itinerary for the trip is as follows: Day 1: 26 January (Tuesday) Arrival: Transportation provided (airport to hotel) Lunch/dinner (at the hotel restaurant) Day 2: 27 January (Wednesday) 08:30 \u2013 17:00: Group tour (tour spots to be decided) 18:30 \u2013 20:30: Welcome dinner Day 3: 28 January (Thursday) 07:30 \u2013 09:30: Tennis clinic (optional) 9:30 \u2013 17:00: Free tour17:30 \u2013 19:30: Dinner19:30: Men\u2019s singles semi-final match viewing Day 4: 29 January (Friday) Departure: Transportation provided (hotel to airport), and lunch (from the hotel restaurant) Click here to read the Small Business Australia Open Prize Draw Terms and Conditions. To be in with a chance of winning, fill in the form below: ", "tags": ["Australia Open Prize Draw", "Accessing expertise"], "title": "Small business Australia Open prize draw"},{"date": "2015-10-30T00:26:20Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In 1998 the novelist David Malouf celebrated Australians\u2019 discovery of a style he called \u201cloosely Mediterranean\u201d, one he thought epitomised by people eating at pavement tables. But where they dined was only the beginning of it. Australians now ate dainty and stylish dishes, drank wine and dressed up or stripped off for display. They had come to accept their own bodies and were thoroughly at ease in enjoying themselves. Australia, he said, had become a place \u201cwhere play seems natural, and pleasure a part of what living is for\u201d \u2013 a contrast with what he saw as the more limited possibilities in the British and Irish Australia of his youth.The 1980s was the critical decade in the emergence of this way of living, thinking and feeling and, as Malouf recognised, the country\u2019s foodways were among the most vivid illustration of a new cosmopolitan sensibility. \u201cDo not overload any meal with cream or butter,\u201d the Melbourne chef Stephanie Alexander advised, as she went about her mission of dismantling notions of taste entrenched by almost 200 years of chops, stews and roasts. Alexander emphasised cooking with fresh and seasonal ingredients, a larger number of small courses rather than the piling up of large portions, and the idea of a meal as a \u201cceremony\u201d that had \u201ca beginning, a middle and an end\u201d. Related: Smashed avo, anyone? Five Australian creations taking the world by storm As Malouf had suggested, restaurant dining had become one easily recognisable mark of the new refinement, a turning of the back on the world of beer, pies and blue singlets. Victorians could from 1987 even buy alcohol in caf\u00e9s and restaurants without ordering a meal as well; such a community clearly had the world at its feet. The cosmopolitan citizen could tell her Shiraz from her Cabernet Sauvignon and knew how to pronounce both focaccia and roulade. Salad, meanwhile, was no longer shorthand for iceberg lettuce, sliced tomatoes and grated carrot. Alfalfa, chives, snow peas and mustard cress now graced the bowl, which might also include warm duck or lobster.\u201cEating Italian\u201d meant something more exotic than spaghetti bolognese, while with the appearance of Vietnamese, Japanese, Thai and high-quality Chinese restaurants, chicken chow mein ceased to be the Asian culinary frontier. These changes were the result of a restaurant revolution that climaxed in an increasingly sophisticated national culture of fine dining. The nouvelle cuisine was taken up in Australia but in the hands of local mimics it became synonymous with pretentious presentation, stingy portions and high prices. Yet it also \u201ctaught a lighter, fresher style of cooking\u201d and innovative restaurateurs took up the cause and adapted it to local conditions.The new cosmopolitanism also influenced what Australians were doing at home. They were embracing new and not-so-new technologies such as the microwave, the electric knife and the sandwich-maker. In many households, the venerable Sunbeam Mixmaster, possibly still wearing a floral cover, was forced to surrender to the food processor as pride of the kitchen bench. Chicken, once for a special occasion, was becoming a regular dish, regarded as healthier than red meat. Fruit juice was embraced as \u201chealthy\u201d. Pasta, once ignored as a suspect foreign dish, was becoming a staple and an expression of unpretentious cosmopolitanism. And the reverberations of the salad revolution were also to be felt in the home.Another ambiguous measure of the new cosmopolitanism was the change in Australians\u2019 drinking habits. The development of the wine industry had long been treated as a mark of civilisational sophistication, a habit that continued into the 1980s. Between 1980 and 1987, per capita consumption increased from 17.3 litres to 21.3 litres, while there was a spectacular growth of exports from 1986, stimulated by the low dollar \u2013 they tripled in volume between 1986 and 1988. On the eastern seaboard of the United States, the arrival of good-quality bottled wine presented a new and unfamiliar image of a country known mainly through the recent success of Crocodile Dundee; Walkabout Creek seemed an unlikely place to find a nice glass of chardonnay. In Australia, cheap cask wine accounted for almost two-thirds of table wine sold, and white wine was four times as popular as red, but tastes were becoming drier as Chardonnay came to replace Riesling as the most favoured drop. Wine cooler \u2013 a mixture of wine and fruit juice \u2013 enjoyed popularity especially among young women for whom it was a sweet, cheap road to oblivion. Boutique or pub-brewed beers provided a means of combining cosmopolitan sophistication, contempt for Alan Bond and John Elliott, and the love of drink still most commonly associated with the old Australia.The cosmopolitan identity of the inner city needed a b\u00eate noire.The cosmopolitan identity of the inner city needed a b\u00eate noire, and in Sydney, a city with well-differentiated regions of affluence and poverty, this position was occupied by \u201cwesties \u2013 who are dags because they wear jeans on the beach and always bring an esky\u201d. The term \u201cbogan\u201d, emerging in the mid-1980s, lacked a specific regional flavour, but it too provided a way to talk about class differences as a matter of cultural style rather than material deprivation \u2013 in a society that still nurtured the idea that anyone prepared to \u201chave a go\u201d would do nicely. Without cosmopolitanism, there could have been no bogan or westie, for these identities took their meaning from their relationship with one another. To be cosmopolitan was to hold a licence for commentary on the taste of those seen to lack cultural savoir faire. Yet popular culture continued to celebrate lifestyles and identities that maintained some distance from the new cosmopolitanism. Two of the most spectacularly successful Australian cultural products of the era drew on older identities supposedly being swept away by the advent of urbanity.When a new television soap opera Neighbours began its career in 1985, TV Week declared it \u201cour own Coronation Street\u201d, in a reference to the long-running British soap. Neighbours, however, was from the outset quite different, being filmed not in a proletarian street but the middle-class Melbourne suburb of Vermont, the fictional Ramsay Street, Erinsborough. The new cosmopolitans who hung around hip precincts such as Brunswick Street in Melbourne and Oxford Street in Sydney might have thought of suburbia as daggy, but Neighbours was a quiet celebration of the Australian suburb at a time when it remained the setting for most people\u2019s lives. Yet Ramsay Street was also a long way from most Australians\u2019 experiences of suburban life, having more in common with a village. Erinsborough was not a dormitory suburb in which the tired commuter sought refuge after a busy day in the office, but an intimate community where people lived, loved and (occasionally) laboured without seeming to need very much that the rest of the world had to offer. Suburbia, as depicted in Neighbours, was a place of community, social drama and, above all, nice-looking young people with tanned skin and perfect teeth.Neighbours presented an image of Australia somewhat out of time. It was white, even Anglo, in an era when most Australian governments promoted the virtues of a multicultural citizenry. A British-based Aboriginal poet and filmmaker, Rikki Shields, argued that the introduction of an Aboriginal character into the show would do much to advance the cause of his people \u201cbecause then everyone could see that we are Australian too\u201d. Yet \u201cit is quite unthinkable that the ravaged countenance of an Australian black could suddenly pop up on Neighbours\u201d, judged Germaine Greer, possibly indulging in a bit of stereotyping of her own. \u201cIf a gang of Aborigines were to camp on one of those manicured lawns, and pass around the flagon, the good neighbourliness would evaporate long before anyone actually relieved himself in the shrubbery.\u201d Neighbours certainly projected a nostalgic view of Australia, one largely unaffected by the migrations of the 1940s to 1960s, let alone those from Asia since the 1970s. \u201cHow many wogs are there in Neighbours?\u201d asked the actor Arky Michael: the answer was very few.Neighbours had only one rival as \u201cshowbiz surprise of the decade\u201d. The global success of the film Crocodile Dundee astonished critics, if not the supremely confident duo of Paul Hogan and John Cornell responsible for unleashing it on the world. In Australia, it surpassed the American film ET as the largest grossing film on record; in the United States, where Hogan had appeared in several cities as the face of Australian tourism promising \u201cto slip an extra shrimp on the barbie\u201d, it became the second-highest grossing film of 1986 behind Top Gun, as well as the most commercially successful foreign film of all time.With a budget of $8.8m \u2013 high for an Australian film, much of it put up by Hogan and Cornell themselves \u2013 after just a few weeks in American cinemas it had already earned $114.3m. Audiences loved the simple story of a legendary crocodile hunter from the Australian outback who meets a visiting American journalist, Sue Charlton (Linda Kozlowski), when she visits Walkabout Creek in pursuit of a story. After a few days in the Kakadu region of the Northern Territory, where Mick \u2013 among other things \u2013 saves Sue from the clutches of a hungry crocodile, the story moves to New York. Much of the humour then turns on Dundee \u2013 a noble savage at once wise and innocent \u2013 being dropped into the urban jungle, where his adventures include trying to work out the purpose of the bidet in his plush hotel. In the show\u2019s most famous scene, Mick and Sue are threatened with a knife by a hoodlum who wants Mick\u2019s wallet. \u201cThat\u2019s not a knife,\u201d proclaims a relaxed and laughing Mick, pulling out a huge concealed blade of his own. \u201cThat\u2019s a knife.\u201dIt was easy to see why Americans liked it: their country\u2019s problems, it seemed, might yet be solved by an antipodean Davy Crockett with a big knife. The hero from the Australian outback had a homely solution to every problem raised by an overgrown city and an over-civilised society. Thugs, pimps, petty thieves, cocaine addicts, transvestites, pretentious eastern intellectuals: Mick takes them all on, with knife, punch, grope, avuncular demonstration or tin can aimed unerringly at a bag-snatcher\u2019s head. No one is immune to his charm, while he seems to enjoy the quirks he discovers among the New York natives. Robert Hughes, the Australian expatriate art critic, concluded that \u201cthe reason Americans like such a flagrant example of Australian kitsch is the same reason Australians like it: Americans feel nostalgia for the vanished frontier which they think survives in Australia, but of course it\u2019s disappeared there, too\u201d. Some criticised the film for its outdated stereotypes, as well as for its conservative \u2013 or at least complacent \u2013 politics. But what these critics missed was the way the figure of Mick Dundee, for all his supposedly primitive ways, embodied a cosmopolitan present.Crocodile Dundee is often compared with an earlier Australian \u201cfish out of water\u201d comedy, The Adventures of Barry McKenzie, where the humour depends so largely on Barry\u2019s antipodean gaucheries in the mother country. But Mick was a very different kind of figure from Barry: rural rather than urban; more assured in dealing with women, the bourgeois and the educated; innocent, like Barry, but combining with it the cleverness of the trickster. Above all, Mick had a touch of class; he was able to hold his own in polite company, and life was for him something more than the quest for the next Foster\u2019s. As Hogan himself explained: \u201cCrocodile Dundee never loses his dignity. Even if he is naive and uneducated, he doesn\u2019t make a melon of himself all the time. He\u2019s got some grace.\u201dThe international success of Australian film and television might have reassured many Australians at a time when Paul Keating was warning of their possible fate as citizens of a banana republic. Yet the essentially familiar, sunny and optimistic tone of Neighbours and Crocodile Dundee was seemingly belied by a strange and unexpected outbreak of national stroppiness. The angriest such explosion occurred in September 1987 and few if any members of the political class saw it coming. Some of the usual suspects were there, stirring the pot as before: Peter Garrett, the troublemaker of 1984; former Treasury secretary John Stone, now a National party senator for Queensland; Alan Jones, Rugby Union coach, media personality and Liberal party identity; Ben Lexcen, America\u2019s Cup hero-genius, recently a supporter of Joh for Canberra; even Norm Gallagher, the burly survivor of the class war and Pentridge Prison. Right and left seemed to have found common cause in opposition to the Australia Card. The idea of a compulsory identity card had emerged from the tax summit of 1985, a new weapon in the fight against tax and welfare fraud. Its passage since had been troubled, sufficiently so to have alerted a less preoccupied government that it needed to be handled with special care. In 1986 a joint select committee came out against the proposal, and the majority included one government member, John Saunderson, who argued that a system of tax file numbers would be sufficient. Still, the government persisted, despite the Senate\u2019s defeating the Australian Card Bill on two occasions. The second of these was used as the trigger for the double dissolution election of 1987, although the Australia Card barely figured in the campaign.\"The greatest danger to our freedom ... since the Japanese bombed Darwin.\u201dThis reticence would cause the government a major problem, for Hawke claimed a mandate to proceed with the bill, which he said would be considered by only the second ever joint sitting of the parliament. Opinion polling up to this point had been solidly in favour of an identity card, with at least two out of three voters supportive. Yet during September 1987, rallies, meetings and sackloads of mail indicated a major revolt. A Perth protest on 23 September attracted between 20,000 and 40,000 people, and brought together state Liberal party politicians and builders\u2019 labourers carrying the Eureka Flag, mothers pushing strollers and goosestepping youths dressed in Nazi-style uniforms, who displayed pictures of Bob Hawke wearing a Hitler moustache. The rally ended with an emotional rendition of \u201cAdvance Australia Fair\u201d: \u201cthe identity card has clearly struck a raw nerve\u201d, concluded the West Australian. It had. On 19 September, the Australian reported that since the beginning of the month it had received over 800 letters on the subject, with the proportion of 17-to-one against. Polling by this time showed a clear majority wanted the Australia Card to go away. Some proponents of the card compared the noisy clamour to the hostility the government had faced over its fringe benefits and capital gains taxes, but it is hard to believe that too many really believed this. Such taxes affected the few rather than the many and did not touch on questions of identity, rights and tradition. Related: Mass surveillance makes us subjects of the state. That's chilling | Richard Ackland In the Australia Card revolt, citizens protested against \u201cthis drastic change to our way of life\u201d, about a proposal \u201ctotalitarian in concept\u201d, about an instrument for making the state \u201cour master, rather than our servant\u201d. In an age when the microchip was both increasingly ubiquitous yet still little understood, they worried over the dangers to their privacy from prying officials and skilful hackers. People also drew on the past to make sense of what their government was trying to do to them. One letter-writer in the Australian described the Australia Card as \u201cthe greatest danger to our freedom ... since the Japanese bombed Darwin\u201d while Geoffrey Blainey reminded his readers that the licences to which the Eureka rebels had objected were the identity cards of their time.Most of all, people objected to being reduced to a bit of green and gold plastic and a number. The terminology of the formidable 130-page bill itself \u2013 which referred to people as \u201cCard-subjects\u201d \u2013 invited the ridicule and contempt that rained down on it. But the bill itself was almost impossible to obtain by September 1987; such was the demand for copies that the government printer had run out. If it had been more widely circulated, it is unlikely to have assuaged public concern with its rich panoply of offences carrying large fines and prison sentences. Despite many suggestions to the contrary in national mythology, Australians usually respect lawful authority, but there are hints that civil disobedience would have resulted if the government had persisted. The scheme required the whole population to report for photographing. Birth certificates would need to be acquired from state governments, two of which \u2013 Queensland and Tasmania \u2013 announced that they would refuse to cooperate. Media outlets previously supportive or indifferent turned against the government in its hour of need. Hawke\u2019s problem was that having used the Australia Card as a pretext for an early election, he could not easily back away; and having for years proclaimed the card as essential in the fight against fraud \u2013 the government claimed it would save a billion dollars \u2013 he could not now drop it as unnecessary. But a way out emerged from an unlikely quarter.Ewart Smith was a retired lawyer and senior public servant with a libertarian streak, who had over time come to see the Australia Card as a \u201cmenace to our way of life\u201d. Woken in his Canberra home early on 22 September by the warbling of magpies, he re-read the bill and noticed that it contained a line which required a regulation to be passed to bring the card into operation, even after approval by a joint sitting of the parliament. This was an Achilles heel, since a regulation could be disallowed by either house and the government lacked a Senate majority. After Smith announced his discovery, the bill\u2019s opponents in the Senate, the Australian Democrats and the Coalition parties, made it clear that they were prepared to use their numbers to prevent the bill from operating. At this point, the government abandoned the bill to great rejoicing throughout the land, with Smith an unlikely St George to the Australia Card dragon. But the Australia Card affair had exposed a raw nerve of suspicion of the state, an insistence that the virtues of people and nation were cultivated and maintained despite, rather than because of, the qualities and conduct of the political class.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Culture", "Books", "History"], "title": "How Australia learned to be cosmopolitan | Frank Bongiorno"},{"date": "2015-10-18T04:49:44Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A quadriplegic New Zealander has reportedly been deported after 36 years in Australia under a controversial new policy to remove convicted criminals from the country.According to the New Zealand Herald, the 56-year-old, named only as Paul, was flown to Auckland three weeks ago with a voucher for a week\u2019s accommodation. Related: Australia and New Zealand are family, but deportations continue \u2013 Turnbull The man, who uses a wheelchair, said he had no friends or family in New Zealand, having spent most of his life in Australia. Paul said he had been jailed in 2012 for 13 months for self-medicating with controlled painkillers.\u201cI feel like I\u2019ve just been dumped \u2013 away from all my family and friends,\u201d he said. \u201cI have nothing here.\u201d  New Zealand has protested against Australia\u2019s policy of cancelling the visa and deporting anyone who has been sentenced to more than 12 months in prison. An average of one New Zealander a day is being deported under the policy.John Key, New Zealand\u2019s prime minister, has raised the issue with Malcolm Turnbull, his Australian counterpart, in Turnbull\u2019s trip across the Tasman \u2013 his first overseas engagement as prime minister.\u201cAll I\u2019ve tried to implore upon the prime minister is where someone is not of the highest risk, where someone has a long-term community of interest in Australia, I think in the spirit of mateship, there should be some compassion shown,\u201d Key said.Turnbull has said there will be no special treatment for New Zealanders but has promised to speed up the appeals process for Kiwis held in Australian detention. \u201cWe do understand the problem; we do understand how it\u2019s perceived in New Zealand and John has been very forthright in our discussions,\u201d the Australian prime minister said. Related: New Zealand MP says deportations make a mockery of Anzac relationship A New Zealand MP is trying to gain access to a detention centre on Christmas Island where Kiwis are being held. About 200 New Zealanders are being held in seven detention centres across Australia.The MP, Labour\u2019s Kelvin Davis, said about 40 New Zealanders were being held at the Christmas Island facility, with some telling him of self-harm and abuse among fellow detainees.\u201cTo me that\u2019s just absolutely inhumane to separate people that far from their families, their loved ones, their legal advice,\u201d Davis told Australian Associated Press.It\u2019s thought that about 1,000 New Zealanders are in line to be deported under Australia\u2019s new policy.", "tags": ["Australian immigration and asylum", "Australia news", "New Zealand", "John Key", "Malcolm Turnbull"], "title": "Quadriplegic New Zealander reportedly deported by Australia"},{"date": "2015-12-01T17:42:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Guardian Small Business Network and Kia are offering one small business owner two tickets to the Australian Open men\u2019s singles semi-final in celebration of the launch of the All-New Kia Optima.The tennis tournament is taking place in Melbourne and the prize comes with return flights from London (with a flexible return date) and three nights accommodation. The itinerary for the trip is as follows: Day 1: 26 January (Tuesday) Arrival: Transportation provided (airport to hotel) Lunch/dinner (at the hotel restaurant) Day 2: 27 January (Wednesday) 08:30 \u2013 17:00: Group tour (tour spots to be decided) 18:30 \u2013 20:30: Welcome dinner Day 3: 28 January (Thursday) 07:30 \u2013 09:30: Tennis clinic (optional) 9:30 \u2013 17:00: Free tour17:30 \u2013 19:30: Dinner19:30: Men\u2019s singles semi-final match viewing Day 4: 29 January (Friday) Departure: Transportation provided (hotel to airport), and lunch (from the hotel restaurant) Click here to read the Small Business Australia Open Prize Draw Terms and Conditions. To be in with a chance of winning, fill in the form below: ", "tags": ["Australia Open Prize Draw", "Accessing expertise"], "title": "Small business Australia Open prize draw"},{"date": "2015-10-30T00:26:20Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In 1998 the novelist David Malouf celebrated Australians\u2019 discovery of a style he called \u201cloosely Mediterranean\u201d, one he thought epitomised by people eating at pavement tables. But where they dined was only the beginning of it. Australians now ate dainty and stylish dishes, drank wine and dressed up or stripped off for display. They had come to accept their own bodies and were thoroughly at ease in enjoying themselves. Australia, he said, had become a place \u201cwhere play seems natural, and pleasure a part of what living is for\u201d \u2013 a contrast with what he saw as the more limited possibilities in the British and Irish Australia of his youth.The 1980s was the critical decade in the emergence of this way of living, thinking and feeling and, as Malouf recognised, the country\u2019s foodways were among the most vivid illustration of a new cosmopolitan sensibility. \u201cDo not overload any meal with cream or butter,\u201d the Melbourne chef Stephanie Alexander advised, as she went about her mission of dismantling notions of taste entrenched by almost 200 years of chops, stews and roasts. Alexander emphasised cooking with fresh and seasonal ingredients, a larger number of small courses rather than the piling up of large portions, and the idea of a meal as a \u201cceremony\u201d that had \u201ca beginning, a middle and an end\u201d. Related: Smashed avo, anyone? Five Australian creations taking the world by storm As Malouf had suggested, restaurant dining had become one easily recognisable mark of the new refinement, a turning of the back on the world of beer, pies and blue singlets. Victorians could from 1987 even buy alcohol in caf\u00e9s and restaurants without ordering a meal as well; such a community clearly had the world at its feet. The cosmopolitan citizen could tell her Shiraz from her Cabernet Sauvignon and knew how to pronounce both focaccia and roulade. Salad, meanwhile, was no longer shorthand for iceberg lettuce, sliced tomatoes and grated carrot. Alfalfa, chives, snow peas and mustard cress now graced the bowl, which might also include warm duck or lobster.\u201cEating Italian\u201d meant something more exotic than spaghetti bolognese, while with the appearance of Vietnamese, Japanese, Thai and high-quality Chinese restaurants, chicken chow mein ceased to be the Asian culinary frontier. These changes were the result of a restaurant revolution that climaxed in an increasingly sophisticated national culture of fine dining. The nouvelle cuisine was taken up in Australia but in the hands of local mimics it became synonymous with pretentious presentation, stingy portions and high prices. Yet it also \u201ctaught a lighter, fresher style of cooking\u201d and innovative restaurateurs took up the cause and adapted it to local conditions.The new cosmopolitanism also influenced what Australians were doing at home. They were embracing new and not-so-new technologies such as the microwave, the electric knife and the sandwich-maker. In many households, the venerable Sunbeam Mixmaster, possibly still wearing a floral cover, was forced to surrender to the food processor as pride of the kitchen bench. Chicken, once for a special occasion, was becoming a regular dish, regarded as healthier than red meat. Fruit juice was embraced as \u201chealthy\u201d. Pasta, once ignored as a suspect foreign dish, was becoming a staple and an expression of unpretentious cosmopolitanism. And the reverberations of the salad revolution were also to be felt in the home.Another ambiguous measure of the new cosmopolitanism was the change in Australians\u2019 drinking habits. The development of the wine industry had long been treated as a mark of civilisational sophistication, a habit that continued into the 1980s. Between 1980 and 1987, per capita consumption increased from 17.3 litres to 21.3 litres, while there was a spectacular growth of exports from 1986, stimulated by the low dollar \u2013 they tripled in volume between 1986 and 1988. On the eastern seaboard of the United States, the arrival of good-quality bottled wine presented a new and unfamiliar image of a country known mainly through the recent success of Crocodile Dundee; Walkabout Creek seemed an unlikely place to find a nice glass of chardonnay. In Australia, cheap cask wine accounted for almost two-thirds of table wine sold, and white wine was four times as popular as red, but tastes were becoming drier as Chardonnay came to replace Riesling as the most favoured drop. Wine cooler \u2013 a mixture of wine and fruit juice \u2013 enjoyed popularity especially among young women for whom it was a sweet, cheap road to oblivion. Boutique or pub-brewed beers provided a means of combining cosmopolitan sophistication, contempt for Alan Bond and John Elliott, and the love of drink still most commonly associated with the old Australia.The cosmopolitan identity of the inner city needed a b\u00eate noire.The cosmopolitan identity of the inner city needed a b\u00eate noire, and in Sydney, a city with well-differentiated regions of affluence and poverty, this position was occupied by \u201cwesties \u2013 who are dags because they wear jeans on the beach and always bring an esky\u201d. The term \u201cbogan\u201d, emerging in the mid-1980s, lacked a specific regional flavour, but it too provided a way to talk about class differences as a matter of cultural style rather than material deprivation \u2013 in a society that still nurtured the idea that anyone prepared to \u201chave a go\u201d would do nicely. Without cosmopolitanism, there could have been no bogan or westie, for these identities took their meaning from their relationship with one another. To be cosmopolitan was to hold a licence for commentary on the taste of those seen to lack cultural savoir faire. Yet popular culture continued to celebrate lifestyles and identities that maintained some distance from the new cosmopolitanism. Two of the most spectacularly successful Australian cultural products of the era drew on older identities supposedly being swept away by the advent of urbanity.When a new television soap opera Neighbours began its career in 1985, TV Week declared it \u201cour own Coronation Street\u201d, in a reference to the long-running British soap. Neighbours, however, was from the outset quite different, being filmed not in a proletarian street but the middle-class Melbourne suburb of Vermont, the fictional Ramsay Street, Erinsborough. The new cosmopolitans who hung around hip precincts such as Brunswick Street in Melbourne and Oxford Street in Sydney might have thought of suburbia as daggy, but Neighbours was a quiet celebration of the Australian suburb at a time when it remained the setting for most people\u2019s lives. Yet Ramsay Street was also a long way from most Australians\u2019 experiences of suburban life, having more in common with a village. Erinsborough was not a dormitory suburb in which the tired commuter sought refuge after a busy day in the office, but an intimate community where people lived, loved and (occasionally) laboured without seeming to need very much that the rest of the world had to offer. Suburbia, as depicted in Neighbours, was a place of community, social drama and, above all, nice-looking young people with tanned skin and perfect teeth.Neighbours presented an image of Australia somewhat out of time. It was white, even Anglo, in an era when most Australian governments promoted the virtues of a multicultural citizenry. A British-based Aboriginal poet and filmmaker, Rikki Shields, argued that the introduction of an Aboriginal character into the show would do much to advance the cause of his people \u201cbecause then everyone could see that we are Australian too\u201d. Yet \u201cit is quite unthinkable that the ravaged countenance of an Australian black could suddenly pop up on Neighbours\u201d, judged Germaine Greer, possibly indulging in a bit of stereotyping of her own. \u201cIf a gang of Aborigines were to camp on one of those manicured lawns, and pass around the flagon, the good neighbourliness would evaporate long before anyone actually relieved himself in the shrubbery.\u201d Neighbours certainly projected a nostalgic view of Australia, one largely unaffected by the migrations of the 1940s to 1960s, let alone those from Asia since the 1970s. \u201cHow many wogs are there in Neighbours?\u201d asked the actor Arky Michael: the answer was very few.Neighbours had only one rival as \u201cshowbiz surprise of the decade\u201d. The global success of the film Crocodile Dundee astonished critics, if not the supremely confident duo of Paul Hogan and John Cornell responsible for unleashing it on the world. In Australia, it surpassed the American film ET as the largest grossing film on record; in the United States, where Hogan had appeared in several cities as the face of Australian tourism promising \u201cto slip an extra shrimp on the barbie\u201d, it became the second-highest grossing film of 1986 behind Top Gun, as well as the most commercially successful foreign film of all time.With a budget of $8.8m \u2013 high for an Australian film, much of it put up by Hogan and Cornell themselves \u2013 after just a few weeks in American cinemas it had already earned $114.3m. Audiences loved the simple story of a legendary crocodile hunter from the Australian outback who meets a visiting American journalist, Sue Charlton (Linda Kozlowski), when she visits Walkabout Creek in pursuit of a story. After a few days in the Kakadu region of the Northern Territory, where Mick \u2013 among other things \u2013 saves Sue from the clutches of a hungry crocodile, the story moves to New York. Much of the humour then turns on Dundee \u2013 a noble savage at once wise and innocent \u2013 being dropped into the urban jungle, where his adventures include trying to work out the purpose of the bidet in his plush hotel. In the show\u2019s most famous scene, Mick and Sue are threatened with a knife by a hoodlum who wants Mick\u2019s wallet. \u201cThat\u2019s not a knife,\u201d proclaims a relaxed and laughing Mick, pulling out a huge concealed blade of his own. \u201cThat\u2019s a knife.\u201dIt was easy to see why Americans liked it: their country\u2019s problems, it seemed, might yet be solved by an antipodean Davy Crockett with a big knife. The hero from the Australian outback had a homely solution to every problem raised by an overgrown city and an over-civilised society. Thugs, pimps, petty thieves, cocaine addicts, transvestites, pretentious eastern intellectuals: Mick takes them all on, with knife, punch, grope, avuncular demonstration or tin can aimed unerringly at a bag-snatcher\u2019s head. No one is immune to his charm, while he seems to enjoy the quirks he discovers among the New York natives. Robert Hughes, the Australian expatriate art critic, concluded that \u201cthe reason Americans like such a flagrant example of Australian kitsch is the same reason Australians like it: Americans feel nostalgia for the vanished frontier which they think survives in Australia, but of course it\u2019s disappeared there, too\u201d. Some criticised the film for its outdated stereotypes, as well as for its conservative \u2013 or at least complacent \u2013 politics. But what these critics missed was the way the figure of Mick Dundee, for all his supposedly primitive ways, embodied a cosmopolitan present.Crocodile Dundee is often compared with an earlier Australian \u201cfish out of water\u201d comedy, The Adventures of Barry McKenzie, where the humour depends so largely on Barry\u2019s antipodean gaucheries in the mother country. But Mick was a very different kind of figure from Barry: rural rather than urban; more assured in dealing with women, the bourgeois and the educated; innocent, like Barry, but combining with it the cleverness of the trickster. Above all, Mick had a touch of class; he was able to hold his own in polite company, and life was for him something more than the quest for the next Foster\u2019s. As Hogan himself explained: \u201cCrocodile Dundee never loses his dignity. Even if he is naive and uneducated, he doesn\u2019t make a melon of himself all the time. He\u2019s got some grace.\u201dThe international success of Australian film and television might have reassured many Australians at a time when Paul Keating was warning of their possible fate as citizens of a banana republic. Yet the essentially familiar, sunny and optimistic tone of Neighbours and Crocodile Dundee was seemingly belied by a strange and unexpected outbreak of national stroppiness. The angriest such explosion occurred in September 1987 and few if any members of the political class saw it coming. Some of the usual suspects were there, stirring the pot as before: Peter Garrett, the troublemaker of 1984; former Treasury secretary John Stone, now a National party senator for Queensland; Alan Jones, Rugby Union coach, media personality and Liberal party identity; Ben Lexcen, America\u2019s Cup hero-genius, recently a supporter of Joh for Canberra; even Norm Gallagher, the burly survivor of the class war and Pentridge Prison. Right and left seemed to have found common cause in opposition to the Australia Card. The idea of a compulsory identity card had emerged from the tax summit of 1985, a new weapon in the fight against tax and welfare fraud. Its passage since had been troubled, sufficiently so to have alerted a less preoccupied government that it needed to be handled with special care. In 1986 a joint select committee came out against the proposal, and the majority included one government member, John Saunderson, who argued that a system of tax file numbers would be sufficient. Still, the government persisted, despite the Senate\u2019s defeating the Australian Card Bill on two occasions. The second of these was used as the trigger for the double dissolution election of 1987, although the Australia Card barely figured in the campaign.\"The greatest danger to our freedom ... since the Japanese bombed Darwin.\u201dThis reticence would cause the government a major problem, for Hawke claimed a mandate to proceed with the bill, which he said would be considered by only the second ever joint sitting of the parliament. Opinion polling up to this point had been solidly in favour of an identity card, with at least two out of three voters supportive. Yet during September 1987, rallies, meetings and sackloads of mail indicated a major revolt. A Perth protest on 23 September attracted between 20,000 and 40,000 people, and brought together state Liberal party politicians and builders\u2019 labourers carrying the Eureka Flag, mothers pushing strollers and goosestepping youths dressed in Nazi-style uniforms, who displayed pictures of Bob Hawke wearing a Hitler moustache. The rally ended with an emotional rendition of \u201cAdvance Australia Fair\u201d: \u201cthe identity card has clearly struck a raw nerve\u201d, concluded the West Australian. It had. On 19 September, the Australian reported that since the beginning of the month it had received over 800 letters on the subject, with the proportion of 17-to-one against. Polling by this time showed a clear majority wanted the Australia Card to go away. Some proponents of the card compared the noisy clamour to the hostility the government had faced over its fringe benefits and capital gains taxes, but it is hard to believe that too many really believed this. Such taxes affected the few rather than the many and did not touch on questions of identity, rights and tradition. Related: Mass surveillance makes us subjects of the state. That's chilling | Richard Ackland In the Australia Card revolt, citizens protested against \u201cthis drastic change to our way of life\u201d, about a proposal \u201ctotalitarian in concept\u201d, about an instrument for making the state \u201cour master, rather than our servant\u201d. In an age when the microchip was both increasingly ubiquitous yet still little understood, they worried over the dangers to their privacy from prying officials and skilful hackers. People also drew on the past to make sense of what their government was trying to do to them. One letter-writer in the Australian described the Australia Card as \u201cthe greatest danger to our freedom ... since the Japanese bombed Darwin\u201d while Geoffrey Blainey reminded his readers that the licences to which the Eureka rebels had objected were the identity cards of their time.Most of all, people objected to being reduced to a bit of green and gold plastic and a number. The terminology of the formidable 130-page bill itself \u2013 which referred to people as \u201cCard-subjects\u201d \u2013 invited the ridicule and contempt that rained down on it. But the bill itself was almost impossible to obtain by September 1987; such was the demand for copies that the government printer had run out. If it had been more widely circulated, it is unlikely to have assuaged public concern with its rich panoply of offences carrying large fines and prison sentences. Despite many suggestions to the contrary in national mythology, Australians usually respect lawful authority, but there are hints that civil disobedience would have resulted if the government had persisted. The scheme required the whole population to report for photographing. Birth certificates would need to be acquired from state governments, two of which \u2013 Queensland and Tasmania \u2013 announced that they would refuse to cooperate. Media outlets previously supportive or indifferent turned against the government in its hour of need. Hawke\u2019s problem was that having used the Australia Card as a pretext for an early election, he could not easily back away; and having for years proclaimed the card as essential in the fight against fraud \u2013 the government claimed it would save a billion dollars \u2013 he could not now drop it as unnecessary. But a way out emerged from an unlikely quarter.Ewart Smith was a retired lawyer and senior public servant with a libertarian streak, who had over time come to see the Australia Card as a \u201cmenace to our way of life\u201d. Woken in his Canberra home early on 22 September by the warbling of magpies, he re-read the bill and noticed that it contained a line which required a regulation to be passed to bring the card into operation, even after approval by a joint sitting of the parliament. This was an Achilles heel, since a regulation could be disallowed by either house and the government lacked a Senate majority. After Smith announced his discovery, the bill\u2019s opponents in the Senate, the Australian Democrats and the Coalition parties, made it clear that they were prepared to use their numbers to prevent the bill from operating. At this point, the government abandoned the bill to great rejoicing throughout the land, with Smith an unlikely St George to the Australia Card dragon. But the Australia Card affair had exposed a raw nerve of suspicion of the state, an insistence that the virtues of people and nation were cultivated and maintained despite, rather than because of, the qualities and conduct of the political class.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Culture", "Books", "History"], "title": "How Australia learned to be cosmopolitan | Frank Bongiorno"},{"date": "2015-10-18T04:49:44Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A quadriplegic New Zealander has reportedly been deported after 36 years in Australia under a controversial new policy to remove convicted criminals from the country.According to the New Zealand Herald, the 56-year-old, named only as Paul, was flown to Auckland three weeks ago with a voucher for a week\u2019s accommodation. Related: Australia and New Zealand are family, but deportations continue \u2013 Turnbull The man, who uses a wheelchair, said he had no friends or family in New Zealand, having spent most of his life in Australia. Paul said he had been jailed in 2012 for 13 months for self-medicating with controlled painkillers.\u201cI feel like I\u2019ve just been dumped \u2013 away from all my family and friends,\u201d he said. \u201cI have nothing here.\u201d  New Zealand has protested against Australia\u2019s policy of cancelling the visa and deporting anyone who has been sentenced to more than 12 months in prison. An average of one New Zealander a day is being deported under the policy.John Key, New Zealand\u2019s prime minister, has raised the issue with Malcolm Turnbull, his Australian counterpart, in Turnbull\u2019s trip across the Tasman \u2013 his first overseas engagement as prime minister.\u201cAll I\u2019ve tried to implore upon the prime minister is where someone is not of the highest risk, where someone has a long-term community of interest in Australia, I think in the spirit of mateship, there should be some compassion shown,\u201d Key said.Turnbull has said there will be no special treatment for New Zealanders but has promised to speed up the appeals process for Kiwis held in Australian detention. \u201cWe do understand the problem; we do understand how it\u2019s perceived in New Zealand and John has been very forthright in our discussions,\u201d the Australian prime minister said. Related: New Zealand MP says deportations make a mockery of Anzac relationship A New Zealand MP is trying to gain access to a detention centre on Christmas Island where Kiwis are being held. About 200 New Zealanders are being held in seven detention centres across Australia.The MP, Labour\u2019s Kelvin Davis, said about 40 New Zealanders were being held at the Christmas Island facility, with some telling him of self-harm and abuse among fellow detainees.\u201cTo me that\u2019s just absolutely inhumane to separate people that far from their families, their loved ones, their legal advice,\u201d Davis told Australian Associated Press.It\u2019s thought that about 1,000 New Zealanders are in line to be deported under Australia\u2019s new policy.", "tags": ["Australian immigration and asylum", "Australia news", "New Zealand", "John Key", "Malcolm Turnbull"], "title": "Quadriplegic New Zealander reportedly deported by Australia"},{"date": "2015-12-18T21:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "There is such a thing as too many dappled piazzas. Too much tapenade. Such a thing as too much everything. Look around, see how many things there are. Too damned many. It\u2019s an experiment for rats. But we see no irony in trading it for another ruckus abroad and calling it a holiday. The essential test of freedom asks how far in any direction we can move from where we now sit without deviating or meeting obstacles. I\u2019m going to say 20 metres, tops. And the masterpiece of our containment, if we ponder it? We think it flows from free choices.This year marked the centenary of a favourite antidote of mine. A dreamer\u2019s place in the middle of nowhere, it\u2019s easy enough to get to these days \u2013 although bear in mind that every resident I know is a visitor who never went home. When I ask what keeps them around, they say freedom, and I get it. But I also know what made them stop in the first place \u2013 apart from 360\u00b0 horizons, a camaraderie peculiar to outposts, and clouds of galaxies in the night sky \u2013 and it was a chance, with no more than their hands and some luck, to get suddenly, stupidly rich. Related: Storms, sharks and sheep \u2026 a trip up Western Australia\u2019s Ningaloo coast Coober Pedy \u2013 Kupa Piti in the indigenous Arabana language, meaning \u201cWhite man in a hole\u201d \u2013 lies in the state of South Australia to the south-east of a desert the size of France and Germany put together. White men started digging holes here after 14-year-old Willie Hutchison, minding a gold-prospectors\u2019 campsite one Monday in February 1915, wandered off and found opals. It\u2019s still the biggest opal find in the world by a huge margin: some gems are as close as eight inches below ground, and some are even found lying on the surface.The only issue for prospectors was desert heat and cold, so they built dwellings underground as well, where sandstone holds the temperature at about 24C year-round. The town now also has underground hotels and even churches. The only issue left for builders looking to extend their premises is opal: one miner who set out to dig a spare bedroom saw colour glinting from the walls of his first attempt so decided to mine it and try again, but hit opal on his next try, and his next, till he ended up with 10 rooms.Coober Pedy isn\u2019t the first place you\u2019d think of to visit in South Australia, given the state\u2019s thousands of miles of beaches, vineyards and ocean-front capital, Adelaide. But it\u2019s a modern tonic, an elastic snap back to a reality where labels can\u2019t help you, where you\u2019re alone with the sum of your foibles on a curious planet. Plus this is real Australia, the netherworld we hoped for, one that no amount of sushi on Sydney harbour can explain.On my Regional Express flight to the outback there are no geologists or suits among the handful of passengers. Unlike gold or diamonds, nothing can help pinpoint precious opal. \u201cIt\u2019s either there or it\u2019s not,\u201d said one miner. So as the plane descends, a woodworm colony grows beneath it of human-sized holes beside piles of excavated rubble. Opal is a democratic gem. There\u2019s no industrial mining here; you have as much chance as anyone.A man comes out to meet the turboprop. Shamil, from India, also turns out to be the driver for the Desert Cave Hotel \u2013 a fail-safe airport shuttle. Of the places to stay here, chosen according to how much like a prospector you want to feel, the Desert Cave is the sort of place where you might imagine you are an international gem buyer. From a varnished sandstone room, I set off to see what\u2019s new in town. For one thing, the 4,000-strong population of more than 40 nationalities now has a council. A road has been paved. But John\u2019s Pizza Bar still makes pizza the way it was made back when pizza was pizza and rocket was something you fired into space. The drive-in movies are enjoying their 50th year, and still screen the warning: \u201cPatrons: explosives are not to be brought into this theatre.\u201dI also see that \u201cnoodling\u201d has been on the rise. The town is an ant-farm of mounds caused by digging or blasting, and because the serious prospector is after whole seams, he sacrifices lone gems. Noodling is the Zen pursuit of \u201cfossicking\u201d through that rubble for flashes of brilliance. Easy enough to spot, opals are the only gems with more than one colour, and their unearthly sparkle shows in the rough. Noodling is no idle game, though: bright opals fetch more per carat than diamonds. One tip I hear is to watch where local indigenous women noodle \u2013 they have a sense.As for a sense of where this whole Priscilla-Queen-of-the-Desert-meets-Mad-Max caboodle started \u2013 both films were shot around here \u2013 there are glimpses. While digging an extension in the 1960s, someone broke through the wall of a sealed underground complex dating from 1916. Part mine, part home, the network is now a walk-through exhibit, intact right down to the opal shining from the walls.Trevor Berry, a one-time psychiatric nurse still on holiday from the 1990s, now runs the Old Timers Mine (oldtimersmine.com) like an enthusiast, and soon reminds me that opal isn\u2019t the main story here, just a damn good excuse. Among the artefacts proudly displayed in his cave is a letter from the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews, confirming reciprocal rights with the Coober Pedy Golf Club \u2013 the only such rights in the world. Berry sells tees packaged with squares of turf, the course here being desert; and glowing balls can be used at night when temperatures and flies are more agreeable. This might seem very odd, but not when you consider that there is an 850-mile-long, 18-hole golf course on the Nullarbor Plain, south-west of here.Nothing here seems plausible or implausible. Without reference to a conforming standard, whatever could happen can happen, and does. Everyone\u2019s laws of probability have abandoned the main flock; or there\u2019s just not a main flock to follow. Then add opal fever. Berry keeps a noodling pit: watch kids\u2019 eyes focus like puppies who\u2019ve spotted bones.Still, I\u2019m not here for opals. Desert fever strikes me harder: the place is a gateway to relentless space. Lit corner-to-corner like a studio, the outback isn\u2019t isolating but strangely intimate and close. You feel you can touch distant views with your hands, stand like the Petit Prince on an empty planet. Daesh can sod off, the government can sod off, the news can sod off.But it\u2019s best if your wingman doesn\u2019t sod off, and the place offers a logical if unexpected companion for desert roaming \u2013 the outback postman. Peter Rowe arrived in 1967 on his way to Alice Springs and, like everyone else, is still here. You can ride with his mail run (mailruntour.com) to cattle stations and food stops at William Creek and Oodnadatta. With ranches the size of Slovenia, it\u2019s a 12-hour run; but on top of expert knowledge, Rowe is smart, easy company. \u201cKnow how to make a million mining opal?\u201d he gibes. \u201cStart with two million and stop when you get to one.\u201dThere\u2019s a theme-park vibe to the outback here, Desert 101, with some moonscape, some red dust, desert scrub, and gibber plains to infinity. The world\u2019s longest manmade structure passes here too, the 3,448-mile Dog Fence, built to keep dingoes out of the south-east. As you stand scanning for crestfallen dingoes, two things begin to dawn: one is that your phone still has a signal. Then you notice that some of those things on the ground are seashells. The terrain makes sudden sense: it\u2019s an ocean bed. Not only that, as Rowe explains, the evenly spaced stones around here were dropped by melting glaciers. Every footfall you make could be the first human footfall. Every shell you lift was left by the sea. And some are opalised, as are some marine fossils. A beachcomber\u2019s party, 120 million years from the beach.Before flying back to the rat experiment, I glean one final angle on the \u201cqueen of all gemstones\u201d. The Desert Cave Hotel turns out to have a fine dining eatery, Umberto\u2019s, like something from a David Lynch movie, 56 steps up into a sandstone hill, with muzak. There\u2019s premium whisky at the bar, the wine list has legs, and I spot Yanni Athanasiadis, the go-to man for serious opals. He owns the Umoona Opal Mine and Museum (umoonaopalmine.com.au) under the ground next door, by far the slickest such complex I\u2019ve seen: it\u2019s a museum not only covering mining but outback and indigenous Australian life and art, too, with what must be 50 metres of rough and polished opals and jewellery for sale.Athanasiadis, who left his Greek hometown of Thessaloniki in 1972, is organising a banquet to meet the Adelaide-Darwin train in the desert. It\u2019s another way to arrive: the Ghan is one of the world\u2019s great train journeys, 54 hours from the Southern Ocean to the Timor Sea, with suites and even whole carriage apartments. The Desert Cave will send a Land Cruiser the 70-odd miles to Manguri Siding to collect guests from the train.Over barramundi (Asian sea bass) and wine, Athanasiadis outlines his plan to lure visitors to remote Manguri. Then we drift back to opal fever \u2013 two flights a week full of banknotes for the town\u2019s only bank, one man\u2019s \u00a318m find \u2013 and as he speaks, still wearing the boyish smile he must have landed with, I pick up a nostalgia more common to 1990s East Berlin. It seems there were good old days here. He remembers them as an extension of his family\u2019s table in Thessaloniki, 15 people eating, drinking, cavorting and mining day and night, throwing the dice of their lives.Now he feels like one of the last of a breed: \u201cI\u2019m amazed, but it seems young people today would prefer to get a big mining job, without risk, than try their luck.\u201dBut is there still plenty of opal around?\u201cNobody can say that the biggest find isn\u2019t still out there,\u201d he says. \u201cIf a few people turned up here who didn\u2019t know a thing and asked where should they dig, I\u2019d leave my job and show them. That\u2019s what this town was all about.\u201dThe cost of a Precious Stones Prospecting Permit in the opal fields is less than \u00a340. According to Trevor Berry, foreigners with a work visa are entitled to try their luck.So you in your gap year, you with a sticky divorce, you with urban fatigue \u2026 bye-bye. Shout the boys a drink for me.DBC Pierre\u2019s trip was provided by the South Australian Tourism Commission, for further information visit southaustralia.com. REX (Regional Express) Airlines flies from Adelaide to Coober Pedy from about \u00a3190 return. Accommodation was provided by the Desert Cave Hotel (doubles from \u00a394 B&B).", "tags": ["South Australia holidays", "Australia holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "Coober Pedy: a gem of a place in South Australia"},{"date": "2015-12-01T17:42:11Z", "country": "australia", "content": "The Guardian Small Business Network and Kia are offering one small business owner two tickets to the Australian Open men\u2019s singles semi-final in celebration of the launch of the All-New Kia Optima.The tennis tournament is taking place in Melbourne and the prize comes with return flights from London (with a flexible return date) and three nights accommodation. The itinerary for the trip is as follows: Day 1: 26 January (Tuesday) Arrival: Transportation provided (airport to hotel) Lunch/dinner (at the hotel restaurant) Day 2: 27 January (Wednesday) 08:30 \u2013 17:00: Group tour (tour spots to be decided) 18:30 \u2013 20:30: Welcome dinner Day 3: 28 January (Thursday) 07:30 \u2013 09:30: Tennis clinic (optional) 9:30 \u2013 17:00: Free tour17:30 \u2013 19:30: Dinner19:30: Men\u2019s singles semi-final match viewing Day 4: 29 January (Friday) Departure: Transportation provided (hotel to airport), and lunch (from the hotel restaurant) Click here to read the Small Business Australia Open Prize Draw Terms and Conditions. To be in with a chance of winning, fill in the form below: ", "tags": ["Australia Open Prize Draw", "Accessing expertise"], "title": "Small business Australia Open prize draw"},{"date": "2015-10-30T00:26:20Z", "country": "australia", "content": "In 1998 the novelist David Malouf celebrated Australians\u2019 discovery of a style he called \u201cloosely Mediterranean\u201d, one he thought epitomised by people eating at pavement tables. But where they dined was only the beginning of it. Australians now ate dainty and stylish dishes, drank wine and dressed up or stripped off for display. They had come to accept their own bodies and were thoroughly at ease in enjoying themselves. Australia, he said, had become a place \u201cwhere play seems natural, and pleasure a part of what living is for\u201d \u2013 a contrast with what he saw as the more limited possibilities in the British and Irish Australia of his youth.The 1980s was the critical decade in the emergence of this way of living, thinking and feeling and, as Malouf recognised, the country\u2019s foodways were among the most vivid illustration of a new cosmopolitan sensibility. \u201cDo not overload any meal with cream or butter,\u201d the Melbourne chef Stephanie Alexander advised, as she went about her mission of dismantling notions of taste entrenched by almost 200 years of chops, stews and roasts. Alexander emphasised cooking with fresh and seasonal ingredients, a larger number of small courses rather than the piling up of large portions, and the idea of a meal as a \u201cceremony\u201d that had \u201ca beginning, a middle and an end\u201d. Related: Smashed avo, anyone? Five Australian creations taking the world by storm As Malouf had suggested, restaurant dining had become one easily recognisable mark of the new refinement, a turning of the back on the world of beer, pies and blue singlets. Victorians could from 1987 even buy alcohol in caf\u00e9s and restaurants without ordering a meal as well; such a community clearly had the world at its feet. The cosmopolitan citizen could tell her Shiraz from her Cabernet Sauvignon and knew how to pronounce both focaccia and roulade. Salad, meanwhile, was no longer shorthand for iceberg lettuce, sliced tomatoes and grated carrot. Alfalfa, chives, snow peas and mustard cress now graced the bowl, which might also include warm duck or lobster.\u201cEating Italian\u201d meant something more exotic than spaghetti bolognese, while with the appearance of Vietnamese, Japanese, Thai and high-quality Chinese restaurants, chicken chow mein ceased to be the Asian culinary frontier. These changes were the result of a restaurant revolution that climaxed in an increasingly sophisticated national culture of fine dining. The nouvelle cuisine was taken up in Australia but in the hands of local mimics it became synonymous with pretentious presentation, stingy portions and high prices. Yet it also \u201ctaught a lighter, fresher style of cooking\u201d and innovative restaurateurs took up the cause and adapted it to local conditions.The new cosmopolitanism also influenced what Australians were doing at home. They were embracing new and not-so-new technologies such as the microwave, the electric knife and the sandwich-maker. In many households, the venerable Sunbeam Mixmaster, possibly still wearing a floral cover, was forced to surrender to the food processor as pride of the kitchen bench. Chicken, once for a special occasion, was becoming a regular dish, regarded as healthier than red meat. Fruit juice was embraced as \u201chealthy\u201d. Pasta, once ignored as a suspect foreign dish, was becoming a staple and an expression of unpretentious cosmopolitanism. And the reverberations of the salad revolution were also to be felt in the home.Another ambiguous measure of the new cosmopolitanism was the change in Australians\u2019 drinking habits. The development of the wine industry had long been treated as a mark of civilisational sophistication, a habit that continued into the 1980s. Between 1980 and 1987, per capita consumption increased from 17.3 litres to 21.3 litres, while there was a spectacular growth of exports from 1986, stimulated by the low dollar \u2013 they tripled in volume between 1986 and 1988. On the eastern seaboard of the United States, the arrival of good-quality bottled wine presented a new and unfamiliar image of a country known mainly through the recent success of Crocodile Dundee; Walkabout Creek seemed an unlikely place to find a nice glass of chardonnay. In Australia, cheap cask wine accounted for almost two-thirds of table wine sold, and white wine was four times as popular as red, but tastes were becoming drier as Chardonnay came to replace Riesling as the most favoured drop. Wine cooler \u2013 a mixture of wine and fruit juice \u2013 enjoyed popularity especially among young women for whom it was a sweet, cheap road to oblivion. Boutique or pub-brewed beers provided a means of combining cosmopolitan sophistication, contempt for Alan Bond and John Elliott, and the love of drink still most commonly associated with the old Australia.The cosmopolitan identity of the inner city needed a b\u00eate noire.The cosmopolitan identity of the inner city needed a b\u00eate noire, and in Sydney, a city with well-differentiated regions of affluence and poverty, this position was occupied by \u201cwesties \u2013 who are dags because they wear jeans on the beach and always bring an esky\u201d. The term \u201cbogan\u201d, emerging in the mid-1980s, lacked a specific regional flavour, but it too provided a way to talk about class differences as a matter of cultural style rather than material deprivation \u2013 in a society that still nurtured the idea that anyone prepared to \u201chave a go\u201d would do nicely. Without cosmopolitanism, there could have been no bogan or westie, for these identities took their meaning from their relationship with one another. To be cosmopolitan was to hold a licence for commentary on the taste of those seen to lack cultural savoir faire. Yet popular culture continued to celebrate lifestyles and identities that maintained some distance from the new cosmopolitanism. Two of the most spectacularly successful Australian cultural products of the era drew on older identities supposedly being swept away by the advent of urbanity.When a new television soap opera Neighbours began its career in 1985, TV Week declared it \u201cour own Coronation Street\u201d, in a reference to the long-running British soap. Neighbours, however, was from the outset quite different, being filmed not in a proletarian street but the middle-class Melbourne suburb of Vermont, the fictional Ramsay Street, Erinsborough. The new cosmopolitans who hung around hip precincts such as Brunswick Street in Melbourne and Oxford Street in Sydney might have thought of suburbia as daggy, but Neighbours was a quiet celebration of the Australian suburb at a time when it remained the setting for most people\u2019s lives. Yet Ramsay Street was also a long way from most Australians\u2019 experiences of suburban life, having more in common with a village. Erinsborough was not a dormitory suburb in which the tired commuter sought refuge after a busy day in the office, but an intimate community where people lived, loved and (occasionally) laboured without seeming to need very much that the rest of the world had to offer. Suburbia, as depicted in Neighbours, was a place of community, social drama and, above all, nice-looking young people with tanned skin and perfect teeth.Neighbours presented an image of Australia somewhat out of time. It was white, even Anglo, in an era when most Australian governments promoted the virtues of a multicultural citizenry. A British-based Aboriginal poet and filmmaker, Rikki Shields, argued that the introduction of an Aboriginal character into the show would do much to advance the cause of his people \u201cbecause then everyone could see that we are Australian too\u201d. Yet \u201cit is quite unthinkable that the ravaged countenance of an Australian black could suddenly pop up on Neighbours\u201d, judged Germaine Greer, possibly indulging in a bit of stereotyping of her own. \u201cIf a gang of Aborigines were to camp on one of those manicured lawns, and pass around the flagon, the good neighbourliness would evaporate long before anyone actually relieved himself in the shrubbery.\u201d Neighbours certainly projected a nostalgic view of Australia, one largely unaffected by the migrations of the 1940s to 1960s, let alone those from Asia since the 1970s. \u201cHow many wogs are there in Neighbours?\u201d asked the actor Arky Michael: the answer was very few.Neighbours had only one rival as \u201cshowbiz surprise of the decade\u201d. The global success of the film Crocodile Dundee astonished critics, if not the supremely confident duo of Paul Hogan and John Cornell responsible for unleashing it on the world. In Australia, it surpassed the American film ET as the largest grossing film on record; in the United States, where Hogan had appeared in several cities as the face of Australian tourism promising \u201cto slip an extra shrimp on the barbie\u201d, it became the second-highest grossing film of 1986 behind Top Gun, as well as the most commercially successful foreign film of all time.With a budget of $8.8m \u2013 high for an Australian film, much of it put up by Hogan and Cornell themselves \u2013 after just a few weeks in American cinemas it had already earned $114.3m. Audiences loved the simple story of a legendary crocodile hunter from the Australian outback who meets a visiting American journalist, Sue Charlton (Linda Kozlowski), when she visits Walkabout Creek in pursuit of a story. After a few days in the Kakadu region of the Northern Territory, where Mick \u2013 among other things \u2013 saves Sue from the clutches of a hungry crocodile, the story moves to New York. Much of the humour then turns on Dundee \u2013 a noble savage at once wise and innocent \u2013 being dropped into the urban jungle, where his adventures include trying to work out the purpose of the bidet in his plush hotel. In the show\u2019s most famous scene, Mick and Sue are threatened with a knife by a hoodlum who wants Mick\u2019s wallet. \u201cThat\u2019s not a knife,\u201d proclaims a relaxed and laughing Mick, pulling out a huge concealed blade of his own. \u201cThat\u2019s a knife.\u201dIt was easy to see why Americans liked it: their country\u2019s problems, it seemed, might yet be solved by an antipodean Davy Crockett with a big knife. The hero from the Australian outback had a homely solution to every problem raised by an overgrown city and an over-civilised society. Thugs, pimps, petty thieves, cocaine addicts, transvestites, pretentious eastern intellectuals: Mick takes them all on, with knife, punch, grope, avuncular demonstration or tin can aimed unerringly at a bag-snatcher\u2019s head. No one is immune to his charm, while he seems to enjoy the quirks he discovers among the New York natives. Robert Hughes, the Australian expatriate art critic, concluded that \u201cthe reason Americans like such a flagrant example of Australian kitsch is the same reason Australians like it: Americans feel nostalgia for the vanished frontier which they think survives in Australia, but of course it\u2019s disappeared there, too\u201d. Some criticised the film for its outdated stereotypes, as well as for its conservative \u2013 or at least complacent \u2013 politics. But what these critics missed was the way the figure of Mick Dundee, for all his supposedly primitive ways, embodied a cosmopolitan present.Crocodile Dundee is often compared with an earlier Australian \u201cfish out of water\u201d comedy, The Adventures of Barry McKenzie, where the humour depends so largely on Barry\u2019s antipodean gaucheries in the mother country. But Mick was a very different kind of figure from Barry: rural rather than urban; more assured in dealing with women, the bourgeois and the educated; innocent, like Barry, but combining with it the cleverness of the trickster. Above all, Mick had a touch of class; he was able to hold his own in polite company, and life was for him something more than the quest for the next Foster\u2019s. As Hogan himself explained: \u201cCrocodile Dundee never loses his dignity. Even if he is naive and uneducated, he doesn\u2019t make a melon of himself all the time. He\u2019s got some grace.\u201dThe international success of Australian film and television might have reassured many Australians at a time when Paul Keating was warning of their possible fate as citizens of a banana republic. Yet the essentially familiar, sunny and optimistic tone of Neighbours and Crocodile Dundee was seemingly belied by a strange and unexpected outbreak of national stroppiness. The angriest such explosion occurred in September 1987 and few if any members of the political class saw it coming. Some of the usual suspects were there, stirring the pot as before: Peter Garrett, the troublemaker of 1984; former Treasury secretary John Stone, now a National party senator for Queensland; Alan Jones, Rugby Union coach, media personality and Liberal party identity; Ben Lexcen, America\u2019s Cup hero-genius, recently a supporter of Joh for Canberra; even Norm Gallagher, the burly survivor of the class war and Pentridge Prison. Right and left seemed to have found common cause in opposition to the Australia Card. The idea of a compulsory identity card had emerged from the tax summit of 1985, a new weapon in the fight against tax and welfare fraud. Its passage since had been troubled, sufficiently so to have alerted a less preoccupied government that it needed to be handled with special care. In 1986 a joint select committee came out against the proposal, and the majority included one government member, John Saunderson, who argued that a system of tax file numbers would be sufficient. Still, the government persisted, despite the Senate\u2019s defeating the Australian Card Bill on two occasions. The second of these was used as the trigger for the double dissolution election of 1987, although the Australia Card barely figured in the campaign.\"The greatest danger to our freedom ... since the Japanese bombed Darwin.\u201dThis reticence would cause the government a major problem, for Hawke claimed a mandate to proceed with the bill, which he said would be considered by only the second ever joint sitting of the parliament. Opinion polling up to this point had been solidly in favour of an identity card, with at least two out of three voters supportive. Yet during September 1987, rallies, meetings and sackloads of mail indicated a major revolt. A Perth protest on 23 September attracted between 20,000 and 40,000 people, and brought together state Liberal party politicians and builders\u2019 labourers carrying the Eureka Flag, mothers pushing strollers and goosestepping youths dressed in Nazi-style uniforms, who displayed pictures of Bob Hawke wearing a Hitler moustache. The rally ended with an emotional rendition of \u201cAdvance Australia Fair\u201d: \u201cthe identity card has clearly struck a raw nerve\u201d, concluded the West Australian. It had. On 19 September, the Australian reported that since the beginning of the month it had received over 800 letters on the subject, with the proportion of 17-to-one against. Polling by this time showed a clear majority wanted the Australia Card to go away. Some proponents of the card compared the noisy clamour to the hostility the government had faced over its fringe benefits and capital gains taxes, but it is hard to believe that too many really believed this. Such taxes affected the few rather than the many and did not touch on questions of identity, rights and tradition. Related: Mass surveillance makes us subjects of the state. That's chilling | Richard Ackland In the Australia Card revolt, citizens protested against \u201cthis drastic change to our way of life\u201d, about a proposal \u201ctotalitarian in concept\u201d, about an instrument for making the state \u201cour master, rather than our servant\u201d. In an age when the microchip was both increasingly ubiquitous yet still little understood, they worried over the dangers to their privacy from prying officials and skilful hackers. People also drew on the past to make sense of what their government was trying to do to them. One letter-writer in the Australian described the Australia Card as \u201cthe greatest danger to our freedom ... since the Japanese bombed Darwin\u201d while Geoffrey Blainey reminded his readers that the licences to which the Eureka rebels had objected were the identity cards of their time.Most of all, people objected to being reduced to a bit of green and gold plastic and a number. The terminology of the formidable 130-page bill itself \u2013 which referred to people as \u201cCard-subjects\u201d \u2013 invited the ridicule and contempt that rained down on it. But the bill itself was almost impossible to obtain by September 1987; such was the demand for copies that the government printer had run out. If it had been more widely circulated, it is unlikely to have assuaged public concern with its rich panoply of offences carrying large fines and prison sentences. Despite many suggestions to the contrary in national mythology, Australians usually respect lawful authority, but there are hints that civil disobedience would have resulted if the government had persisted. The scheme required the whole population to report for photographing. Birth certificates would need to be acquired from state governments, two of which \u2013 Queensland and Tasmania \u2013 announced that they would refuse to cooperate. Media outlets previously supportive or indifferent turned against the government in its hour of need. Hawke\u2019s problem was that having used the Australia Card as a pretext for an early election, he could not easily back away; and having for years proclaimed the card as essential in the fight against fraud \u2013 the government claimed it would save a billion dollars \u2013 he could not now drop it as unnecessary. But a way out emerged from an unlikely quarter.Ewart Smith was a retired lawyer and senior public servant with a libertarian streak, who had over time come to see the Australia Card as a \u201cmenace to our way of life\u201d. Woken in his Canberra home early on 22 September by the warbling of magpies, he re-read the bill and noticed that it contained a line which required a regulation to be passed to bring the card into operation, even after approval by a joint sitting of the parliament. This was an Achilles heel, since a regulation could be disallowed by either house and the government lacked a Senate majority. After Smith announced his discovery, the bill\u2019s opponents in the Senate, the Australian Democrats and the Coalition parties, made it clear that they were prepared to use their numbers to prevent the bill from operating. At this point, the government abandoned the bill to great rejoicing throughout the land, with Smith an unlikely St George to the Australia Card dragon. But the Australia Card affair had exposed a raw nerve of suspicion of the state, an insistence that the virtues of people and nation were cultivated and maintained despite, rather than because of, the qualities and conduct of the political class.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Culture", "Books", "History"], "title": "How Australia learned to be cosmopolitan | Frank Bongiorno"},{"date": "2015-10-18T04:49:44Z", "country": "australia", "content": "A quadriplegic New Zealander has reportedly been deported after 36 years in Australia under a controversial new policy to remove convicted criminals from the country.According to the New Zealand Herald, the 56-year-old, named only as Paul, was flown to Auckland three weeks ago with a voucher for a week\u2019s accommodation. Related: Australia and New Zealand are family, but deportations continue \u2013 Turnbull The man, who uses a wheelchair, said he had no friends or family in New Zealand, having spent most of his life in Australia. Paul said he had been jailed in 2012 for 13 months for self-medicating with controlled painkillers.\u201cI feel like I\u2019ve just been dumped \u2013 away from all my family and friends,\u201d he said. \u201cI have nothing here.\u201d  New Zealand has protested against Australia\u2019s policy of cancelling the visa and deporting anyone who has been sentenced to more than 12 months in prison. An average of one New Zealander a day is being deported under the policy.John Key, New Zealand\u2019s prime minister, has raised the issue with Malcolm Turnbull, his Australian counterpart, in Turnbull\u2019s trip across the Tasman \u2013 his first overseas engagement as prime minister.\u201cAll I\u2019ve tried to implore upon the prime minister is where someone is not of the highest risk, where someone has a long-term community of interest in Australia, I think in the spirit of mateship, there should be some compassion shown,\u201d Key said.Turnbull has said there will be no special treatment for New Zealanders but has promised to speed up the appeals process for Kiwis held in Australian detention. \u201cWe do understand the problem; we do understand how it\u2019s perceived in New Zealand and John has been very forthright in our discussions,\u201d the Australian prime minister said. Related: New Zealand MP says deportations make a mockery of Anzac relationship A New Zealand MP is trying to gain access to a detention centre on Christmas Island where Kiwis are being held. About 200 New Zealanders are being held in seven detention centres across Australia.The MP, Labour\u2019s Kelvin Davis, said about 40 New Zealanders were being held at the Christmas Island facility, with some telling him of self-harm and abuse among fellow detainees.\u201cTo me that\u2019s just absolutely inhumane to separate people that far from their families, their loved ones, their legal advice,\u201d Davis told Australian Associated Press.It\u2019s thought that about 1,000 New Zealanders are in line to be deported under Australia\u2019s new policy.", "tags": ["Australian immigration and asylum", "Australia news", "New Zealand", "John Key", "Malcolm Turnbull"], "title": "Quadriplegic New Zealander reportedly deported by Australia"},{"date": "2015-12-18T21:00:00Z", "country": "australia", "content": "There is such a thing as too many dappled piazzas. Too much tapenade. Such a thing as too much everything. Look around, see how many things there are. Too damned many. It\u2019s an experiment for rats. But we see no irony in trading it for another ruckus abroad and calling it a holiday. The essential test of freedom asks how far in any direction we can move from where we now sit without deviating or meeting obstacles. I\u2019m going to say 20 metres, tops. And the masterpiece of our containment, if we ponder it? We think it flows from free choices.This year marked the centenary of a favourite antidote of mine. A dreamer\u2019s place in the middle of nowhere, it\u2019s easy enough to get to these days \u2013 although bear in mind that every resident I know is a visitor who never went home. When I ask what keeps them around, they say freedom, and I get it. But I also know what made them stop in the first place \u2013 apart from 360\u00b0 horizons, a camaraderie peculiar to outposts, and clouds of galaxies in the night sky \u2013 and it was a chance, with no more than their hands and some luck, to get suddenly, stupidly rich. Related: Storms, sharks and sheep \u2026 a trip up Western Australia\u2019s Ningaloo coast Coober Pedy \u2013 Kupa Piti in the indigenous Arabana language, meaning \u201cWhite man in a hole\u201d \u2013 lies in the state of South Australia to the south-east of a desert the size of France and Germany put together. White men started digging holes here after 14-year-old Willie Hutchison, minding a gold-prospectors\u2019 campsite one Monday in February 1915, wandered off and found opals. It\u2019s still the biggest opal find in the world by a huge margin: some gems are as close as eight inches below ground, and some are even found lying on the surface.The only issue for prospectors was desert heat and cold, so they built dwellings underground as well, where sandstone holds the temperature at about 24C year-round. The town now also has underground hotels and even churches. The only issue left for builders looking to extend their premises is opal: one miner who set out to dig a spare bedroom saw colour glinting from the walls of his first attempt so decided to mine it and try again, but hit opal on his next try, and his next, till he ended up with 10 rooms.Coober Pedy isn\u2019t the first place you\u2019d think of to visit in South Australia, given the state\u2019s thousands of miles of beaches, vineyards and ocean-front capital, Adelaide. But it\u2019s a modern tonic, an elastic snap back to a reality where labels can\u2019t help you, where you\u2019re alone with the sum of your foibles on a curious planet. Plus this is real Australia, the netherworld we hoped for, one that no amount of sushi on Sydney harbour can explain.On my Regional Express flight to the outback there are no geologists or suits among the handful of passengers. Unlike gold or diamonds, nothing can help pinpoint precious opal. \u201cIt\u2019s either there or it\u2019s not,\u201d said one miner. So as the plane descends, a woodworm colony grows beneath it of human-sized holes beside piles of excavated rubble. Opal is a democratic gem. There\u2019s no industrial mining here; you have as much chance as anyone.A man comes out to meet the turboprop. Shamil, from India, also turns out to be the driver for the Desert Cave Hotel \u2013 a fail-safe airport shuttle. Of the places to stay here, chosen according to how much like a prospector you want to feel, the Desert Cave is the sort of place where you might imagine you are an international gem buyer. From a varnished sandstone room, I set off to see what\u2019s new in town. For one thing, the 4,000-strong population of more than 40 nationalities now has a council. A road has been paved. But John\u2019s Pizza Bar still makes pizza the way it was made back when pizza was pizza and rocket was something you fired into space. The drive-in movies are enjoying their 50th year, and still screen the warning: \u201cPatrons: explosives are not to be brought into this theatre.\u201dI also see that \u201cnoodling\u201d has been on the rise. The town is an ant-farm of mounds caused by digging or blasting, and because the serious prospector is after whole seams, he sacrifices lone gems. Noodling is the Zen pursuit of \u201cfossicking\u201d through that rubble for flashes of brilliance. Easy enough to spot, opals are the only gems with more than one colour, and their unearthly sparkle shows in the rough. Noodling is no idle game, though: bright opals fetch more per carat than diamonds. One tip I hear is to watch where local indigenous women noodle \u2013 they have a sense.As for a sense of where this whole Priscilla-Queen-of-the-Desert-meets-Mad-Max caboodle started \u2013 both films were shot around here \u2013 there are glimpses. While digging an extension in the 1960s, someone broke through the wall of a sealed underground complex dating from 1916. Part mine, part home, the network is now a walk-through exhibit, intact right down to the opal shining from the walls.Trevor Berry, a one-time psychiatric nurse still on holiday from the 1990s, now runs the Old Timers Mine (oldtimersmine.com) like an enthusiast, and soon reminds me that opal isn\u2019t the main story here, just a damn good excuse. Among the artefacts proudly displayed in his cave is a letter from the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews, confirming reciprocal rights with the Coober Pedy Golf Club \u2013 the only such rights in the world. Berry sells tees packaged with squares of turf, the course here being desert; and glowing balls can be used at night when temperatures and flies are more agreeable. This might seem very odd, but not when you consider that there is an 850-mile-long, 18-hole golf course on the Nullarbor Plain, south-west of here.Nothing here seems plausible or implausible. Without reference to a conforming standard, whatever could happen can happen, and does. Everyone\u2019s laws of probability have abandoned the main flock; or there\u2019s just not a main flock to follow. Then add opal fever. Berry keeps a noodling pit: watch kids\u2019 eyes focus like puppies who\u2019ve spotted bones.Still, I\u2019m not here for opals. Desert fever strikes me harder: the place is a gateway to relentless space. Lit corner-to-corner like a studio, the outback isn\u2019t isolating but strangely intimate and close. You feel you can touch distant views with your hands, stand like the Petit Prince on an empty planet. Daesh can sod off, the government can sod off, the news can sod off.But it\u2019s best if your wingman doesn\u2019t sod off, and the place offers a logical if unexpected companion for desert roaming \u2013 the outback postman. Peter Rowe arrived in 1967 on his way to Alice Springs and, like everyone else, is still here. You can ride with his mail run (mailruntour.com) to cattle stations and food stops at William Creek and Oodnadatta. With ranches the size of Slovenia, it\u2019s a 12-hour run; but on top of expert knowledge, Rowe is smart, easy company. \u201cKnow how to make a million mining opal?\u201d he gibes. \u201cStart with two million and stop when you get to one.\u201dThere\u2019s a theme-park vibe to the outback here, Desert 101, with some moonscape, some red dust, desert scrub, and gibber plains to infinity. The world\u2019s longest manmade structure passes here too, the 3,448-mile Dog Fence, built to keep dingoes out of the south-east. As you stand scanning for crestfallen dingoes, two things begin to dawn: one is that your phone still has a signal. Then you notice that some of those things on the ground are seashells. The terrain makes sudden sense: it\u2019s an ocean bed. Not only that, as Rowe explains, the evenly spaced stones around here were dropped by melting glaciers. Every footfall you make could be the first human footfall. Every shell you lift was left by the sea. And some are opalised, as are some marine fossils. A beachcomber\u2019s party, 120 million years from the beach.Before flying back to the rat experiment, I glean one final angle on the \u201cqueen of all gemstones\u201d. The Desert Cave Hotel turns out to have a fine dining eatery, Umberto\u2019s, like something from a David Lynch movie, 56 steps up into a sandstone hill, with muzak. There\u2019s premium whisky at the bar, the wine list has legs, and I spot Yanni Athanasiadis, the go-to man for serious opals. He owns the Umoona Opal Mine and Museum (umoonaopalmine.com.au) under the ground next door, by far the slickest such complex I\u2019ve seen: it\u2019s a museum not only covering mining but outback and indigenous Australian life and art, too, with what must be 50 metres of rough and polished opals and jewellery for sale.Athanasiadis, who left his Greek hometown of Thessaloniki in 1972, is organising a banquet to meet the Adelaide-Darwin train in the desert. It\u2019s another way to arrive: the Ghan is one of the world\u2019s great train journeys, 54 hours from the Southern Ocean to the Timor Sea, with suites and even whole carriage apartments. The Desert Cave will send a Land Cruiser the 70-odd miles to Manguri Siding to collect guests from the train.Over barramundi (Asian sea bass) and wine, Athanasiadis outlines his plan to lure visitors to remote Manguri. Then we drift back to opal fever \u2013 two flights a week full of banknotes for the town\u2019s only bank, one man\u2019s \u00a318m find \u2013 and as he speaks, still wearing the boyish smile he must have landed with, I pick up a nostalgia more common to 1990s East Berlin. It seems there were good old days here. He remembers them as an extension of his family\u2019s table in Thessaloniki, 15 people eating, drinking, cavorting and mining day and night, throwing the dice of their lives.Now he feels like one of the last of a breed: \u201cI\u2019m amazed, but it seems young people today would prefer to get a big mining job, without risk, than try their luck.\u201dBut is there still plenty of opal around?\u201cNobody can say that the biggest find isn\u2019t still out there,\u201d he says. \u201cIf a few people turned up here who didn\u2019t know a thing and asked where should they dig, I\u2019d leave my job and show them. That\u2019s what this town was all about.\u201dThe cost of a Precious Stones Prospecting Permit in the opal fields is less than \u00a340. According to Trevor Berry, foreigners with a work visa are entitled to try their luck.So you in your gap year, you with a sticky divorce, you with urban fatigue \u2026 bye-bye. Shout the boys a drink for me.DBC Pierre\u2019s trip was provided by the South Australian Tourism Commission, for further information visit southaustralia.com. REX (Regional Express) Airlines flies from Adelaide to Coober Pedy from about \u00a3190 return. Accommodation was provided by the Desert Cave Hotel (doubles from \u00a394 B&B).", "tags": ["South Australia holidays", "Australia holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "Coober Pedy: a gem of a place in South Australia"},{"date": "2015-12-14T20:30:19Z", "country": "australia", "content": "Ireland has bequeathed much to Australia, from the bloodlines of legends such as Ned Kelly, Thomas Keneally and Paul Keating, to cutting those with overinflated egos down to size (aka the tall poppy syndrome), to much of your humour.But one of the greatest aspects of Irish life \u2013 the utter adoration of Christmas \u2013 has failed to ever find serious purchase down under.My first encounter of the great oddness of Christmas in Australia was in Perth in 1992 when I saw schoolchildren wearing synthetic red outfits singing hymns in 30 degree heat. But at least they were trying. Most people don\u2019t make any effort to get into the spirit of the season. In Ireland we start celebrating Christmas as soon as Halloween is over, and it doesn\u2019t end until January 2. We spend two months meeting people, socialising and properly analysing the year that\u2019s ending and previewing the one to come. It\u2019s psychologically more beneficial than just going for a swim.Halloween emerged from Samhain, a pagan Irish festival. They ate, drank and celebrated what they had because the nights were drawing in and there was no guarantee the sun would ever come back as strong as it was just weeks earlier.  Related: How to do an Australian Christmas Now when St Patrick brought Christianity to Ireland, and helpfully got rid of the snakes while he was at it, he assured the natives God would not smite them and spring would surely follow winter. My ancestors believed him, but this was not reason enough to do away with Samhain \u2013 it was just a good excuse to continue the party until it was time to wet the head of baby Jesus eight weeks later.People in Australia just don\u2019t love Christmas. Longtime Sydney mayor Clover Moore was the Christmas Scrooge in 2004 with her \u201cseasons greetings\u201d banners, which John Howard rightly called \u201cpolitical correctness from central casting\u201d. Stung by the criticism, she has been pro-Christmas ever since, and wants Sydney to be a \u201cChristmas destination\u201d. It hasn\u2019t made any discernible difference.Australians do, generally, send Christmas cards, but they very often write Xmas, which I cannot abide. The Christian Brothers beat that hatred into me so hard it still gives me shivers when I read it. And when you complain about someone writing the dreaded word, the Xmas-writer will invariably get all defensive and say the X part comes from the Greek word for Christ. So either Australia has the world\u2019s highest number of Greek scholars or, just possibly, the highest number of people too lazy to write Christmas. (And please don\u2019t refer to \u201cChrissy\u201d and definitely do not wish me \u201chappy holidays\u201d.)Think I\u2019m being a bit pedantic, taking this all too seriously? That\u2019s nothing. I come from a country where Christmas tree theft is so common the police have air patrols to protect remote plantations. Operation Hurdle, as it\u2019s called, is now in its fourth year after a 2011 incident in which a Christmas tree grower in County Wicklow was tied up and robbed. Now that\u2019s taking things a bit too seriously.Part of the problem in Australia is, of course, that it\u2019s summer. Christmas in Ireland helps shorten the winter. There are only seven hours of daylight at this time of year so it\u2019s never far from being dark and very cold. But pubs are a nice warm place to meet friends. Add some alcohol and Christmas magic happens.I was in Dublin last November and it seemed Ireland\u2019s economic woes were a thing of the past, as if the Celtic Tiger had been resurrected. Christmas lights and decorations were everywhere, the Grafton Street string quartet buskers who play Pachelbel\u2019s Canon all day long in summer (because it\u2019s the best earner) were still playing Pachelbel\u2019s Canon all day long \u2013 but doing so while wearing Christmas hats.  Related: Band Aid song Do They Know It\u2019s Christmas? re-recorded for Ebola cause Everybody seemed happy, Band Aid\u2019s Do They Know It\u2019s Christmas (the original 1984 version) was belting out of every shop, the streets were alive and the pubs and restaurants were packed. Australian cities could sorely use some of that happy nighttime economy.If you really want to impress an Irish person that you\u2019re down with this whole Christmas thing, refer to the day after Christmas as St Stephen\u2019s day, not Boxing Day. On that day we do not trifle with cricket tests or the Sydney to Hobart yacht race, we return to the pubs which were all closed on Christmas Day and listen to the Wren (pronounced wran) boys singing carols. And if we just want to stay at home, we listen to dedicated radio station Christmas FM.Australia\u2019s journey to properly celebrating Christmas needs to start once the Melbourne Cup ends. As soon as you have torn up your non-winning betting tickets you should start wishing people \u201chappy Christmas\u201d. Trust me, you\u2019ll feel better. ", "tags": ["Christmas", "Life and style", "Halloween"], "title": "No offence Australia, but you're doing Christmas all wrong | P\u00e1draig Collins"}]