[{"date": "2008-02-20T13:15:13Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Is Germany, Europe's biggest economy, a corporate swamp? As the tax evasion scandal triggered by Deutsche Post chief executive Klaus Zumwinkel grew this week, judges at a court in Braunschweig (Brunswick) prepared to pass more sentences in the long-running Volkswagen sex and bribery affair that has already claimed the scalp of the architect of the country's labour reforms.The tax scandal itself testifies to a stinking rottenness in many boardrooms where executives have pocketed huge salary increases and stock options while plotting with their tax advisers to squirrel their wealth over the border, first to Luxembourg and now, it transpires, to neighbouring Liechtenstein. All the while as they slash their workforces and impose effective wage-cuts.The German tax officers' union estimates that as much as \u20ac30bn (\u00a322.65bn) a year may be withheld from the exchequer. Media reports, based on leaks from the prosecutors and police involved in nationwide raids on offices and homes, point to sums of up to \u20ac4bn. Anything between 700 and 1,000 executives, some of them prominent, risk investigation while scores of them are hastily consulting their advisers and paying off their tax bills rapidly to escape fines or even imprisonment - or singing like canaries to the authorities.It's reported that when executives meet over cocktails it's not their latest round of golf or business coup they discuss but their tax bills and how to cut them. Anybody who declares his or her full income is widely viewed as a fool - unfit to run a business and maximise shareholder returns....As Josef Ackermann, the well-heeled (\u20ac15m a year at least) chief executive of Deutsche Bank, said this week, it would be wrong to visit the malfaisance of some on business as a whole. Or is it? When I discussed the issue with Peter von Blomberg, vice chairman of the German chapter of Transparency International, in mid-2005 when the VW scandal erupted, he told me this was \"just the tip of the iceberg\". Since then even more of the iceberg has emerged.Siemens, the country's biggest group by market cap, is spending millions of euros a week on investigating and clearing up a bribery scandal dating back years that has already cost the heads of several leading executives, including the former chairman and chief executives (though both deny personal involvement). It has cost the engineering group more than \u20ac1.6bn so far, including fines, but the final bill will almost certainly be a large multiple of that. And it has brought in an outsider as CEO, Peter Loescher, an Austrian not tainted by German corporate culture, to clean out the Augean stables - with the aid of an American chief compliance officer, Peter Solmssen.Rate expectationsSo what is to be done to clean up Germany as a whole? In the S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung, Peter Bofinger, one of Angela Merkel's \"five wise men\" or official economic advisers, calls for a new relationship between society and state instead of the current disturbed one. He argues that the state is widely presented and perceived as alien and spendthrift, throwing taxpayers' money away without any noticeable benefit for the citizens.Bofinger, a controversial outsider himself, insists that the tax take in Germany, where the top rate is 45%, is not too high and in fact is well below the EU average. He is a fierce opponent of tax cuts - as promulgated by Merkel's original choice as finance minister, Paul Kirchhof, who has consistently proposed a uniform 25% rate.In the same paper Kirchhof argues in an interview that the problem is the complexity of the tax rules which make them misunderstood and strengthen the feeling that the \"other\" is getting away with paying less. If everyone paid the same rate - and certainly not the 80% demanded by some union leaders - the outcome would be greater clarity and certainty. It's an intriguing argument but one dismissed by government and opposition so far. Their kneejerk reaction so far is simply to think of increasing the penalties for tax evasion. And new EU measures to stamp on European tax havens. Hardly enough to root out criminal self-enrichment on this scale. Pay showdownZumwinkel, named manager of the year in 2006 and a close Merkel adviser until his disgrace, is now out in the cold - even after reportedly paying \u20ac4m in underpaid tax over to the authorities. (Apparently, he declared so little interest on his savings he escaped any tax at all in at least one year). And, now that he's resigned, the Post has stopped paying him at all - and scrapped any golden goodbye.The revelations of his bottomless greed and that of other executives - 17.5% average pay rises in the past year - is grist to the mill of German unions limbering up for a showdown over pay this year after several years of restraint.This week saw more than 50,000 public sector workers down tools in pursuit of an 8% claim lodged by their union, Verdi, and others in response to a government offer of 5% staged over two years. They closed down swimming pools, theatres and kindergartens in a foretaste of what could become a \"hot spring\" - and autumn when engineering union IG Metall formally submits its own 8% claim.This puts the government on the horns of a dilemma as ministers from both sides of the grand coalition have argued that employees deserve to see their purchasing power increase as the economy continues to grow despite the credit crunch. It might boost consumer spending, finally, as investment- and export-led growth slackens.Cue Jean-Claude Trichet, European Central Bank president and scourge of \"excessive\" wage claims (those \"second-round effects\" of rising inflation he warns against). Merkel's government is the fiercest defender of the ECB's independence in the eurozone. But, if Trichet and his governing council colleagues, surprised us all by raising interest rates, would it still be the bank's cheerleader?", "tags": ["Economics", "Germany", "Tax and spending", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "David Gow: Taxing times for Germany"},{"date": "2008-02-20T13:15:13Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Is Germany, Europe's biggest economy, a corporate swamp? As the tax evasion scandal triggered by Deutsche Post chief executive Klaus Zumwinkel grew this week, judges at a court in Braunschweig (Brunswick) prepared to pass more sentences in the long-running Volkswagen sex and bribery affair that has already claimed the scalp of the architect of the country's labour reforms.The tax scandal itself testifies to a stinking rottenness in many boardrooms where executives have pocketed huge salary increases and stock options while plotting with their tax advisers to squirrel their wealth over the border, first to Luxembourg and now, it transpires, to neighbouring Liechtenstein. All the while as they slash their workforces and impose effective wage-cuts.The German tax officers' union estimates that as much as \u20ac30bn (\u00a322.65bn) a year may be withheld from the exchequer. Media reports, based on leaks from the prosecutors and police involved in nationwide raids on offices and homes, point to sums of up to \u20ac4bn. Anything between 700 and 1,000 executives, some of them prominent, risk investigation while scores of them are hastily consulting their advisers and paying off their tax bills rapidly to escape fines or even imprisonment - or singing like canaries to the authorities.It's reported that when executives meet over cocktails it's not their latest round of golf or business coup they discuss but their tax bills and how to cut them. Anybody who declares his or her full income is widely viewed as a fool - unfit to run a business and maximise shareholder returns....As Josef Ackermann, the well-heeled (\u20ac15m a year at least) chief executive of Deutsche Bank, said this week, it would be wrong to visit the malfaisance of some on business as a whole. Or is it? When I discussed the issue with Peter von Blomberg, vice chairman of the German chapter of Transparency International, in mid-2005 when the VW scandal erupted, he told me this was \"just the tip of the iceberg\". Since then even more of the iceberg has emerged.Siemens, the country's biggest group by market cap, is spending millions of euros a week on investigating and clearing up a bribery scandal dating back years that has already cost the heads of several leading executives, including the former chairman and chief executives (though both deny personal involvement). It has cost the engineering group more than \u20ac1.6bn so far, including fines, but the final bill will almost certainly be a large multiple of that. And it has brought in an outsider as CEO, Peter Loescher, an Austrian not tainted by German corporate culture, to clean out the Augean stables - with the aid of an American chief compliance officer, Peter Solmssen.Rate expectationsSo what is to be done to clean up Germany as a whole? In the S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung, Peter Bofinger, one of Angela Merkel's \"five wise men\" or official economic advisers, calls for a new relationship between society and state instead of the current disturbed one. He argues that the state is widely presented and perceived as alien and spendthrift, throwing taxpayers' money away without any noticeable benefit for the citizens.Bofinger, a controversial outsider himself, insists that the tax take in Germany, where the top rate is 45%, is not too high and in fact is well below the EU average. He is a fierce opponent of tax cuts - as promulgated by Merkel's original choice as finance minister, Paul Kirchhof, who has consistently proposed a uniform 25% rate.In the same paper Kirchhof argues in an interview that the problem is the complexity of the tax rules which make them misunderstood and strengthen the feeling that the \"other\" is getting away with paying less. If everyone paid the same rate - and certainly not the 80% demanded by some union leaders - the outcome would be greater clarity and certainty. It's an intriguing argument but one dismissed by government and opposition so far. Their kneejerk reaction so far is simply to think of increasing the penalties for tax evasion. And new EU measures to stamp on European tax havens. Hardly enough to root out criminal self-enrichment on this scale. Pay showdownZumwinkel, named manager of the year in 2006 and a close Merkel adviser until his disgrace, is now out in the cold - even after reportedly paying \u20ac4m in underpaid tax over to the authorities. (Apparently, he declared so little interest on his savings he escaped any tax at all in at least one year). And, now that he's resigned, the Post has stopped paying him at all - and scrapped any golden goodbye.The revelations of his bottomless greed and that of other executives - 17.5% average pay rises in the past year - is grist to the mill of German unions limbering up for a showdown over pay this year after several years of restraint.This week saw more than 50,000 public sector workers down tools in pursuit of an 8% claim lodged by their union, Verdi, and others in response to a government offer of 5% staged over two years. They closed down swimming pools, theatres and kindergartens in a foretaste of what could become a \"hot spring\" - and autumn when engineering union IG Metall formally submits its own 8% claim.This puts the government on the horns of a dilemma as ministers from both sides of the grand coalition have argued that employees deserve to see their purchasing power increase as the economy continues to grow despite the credit crunch. It might boost consumer spending, finally, as investment- and export-led growth slackens.Cue Jean-Claude Trichet, European Central Bank president and scourge of \"excessive\" wage claims (those \"second-round effects\" of rising inflation he warns against). Merkel's government is the fiercest defender of the ECB's independence in the eurozone. But, if Trichet and his governing council colleagues, surprised us all by raising interest rates, would it still be the bank's cheerleader?", "tags": ["Economics", "Germany", "Tax and spending", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "David Gow: Taxing times for Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-26T14:30:28Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Aufkl\u00e4rung ... hundreds of lamps moulded after a bust of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. Photograph: Jens Meyer/APThe previous leg of our long-running world literature tour took us to Romania, where we explored the vibrant literary health of a country few of us know in any detail, despite being a fellow member of the European Union. Many suggestions came from Bucharest resident vic31, with particular recommendations for Mircea Cartarescu's epic trilogy (Aripa Stinga, Corpul, Aripa Dreapta /The Left Wing, The Body, The Right Wing), reminiscent of Updike, and Filip Florian's magical realist Degete Mici (Little Fingers), which follows the mystery of whether some bones unearthed during an archaeological dig are from an ancient Roman military camp or a 1950s mass grave. Another poster, AIBlyth, drew our attention to his own translation of Little Fingers, to be published in the US by Harcourt, before recommending contemporary novels from Dan Lungu (Hens' Heaven), Stefan Agopian (Tache de Velvet) and Doina Rusti (Zogru).Nilpferd was also on hand with some fascinating suggestions, notably the surrealist writer Urmuz, an important precursor to one of Romania's most famous literary sons, the Romanian-French playwright Eugen Ionescu.Delve further into Romania's rich literary landscape hereMoving closer to home, we now pick up our wayfarer's thread in Germany, cradle of Sturm und Drang, Romantic irony and heartfelt post-war political realism. Germany's literary tradition is, of course, one of the greatest, stretching from Goethe - one of the first genuinely international literary superstars - and Schiller to WG Sebald and Gunter Grass, writers accorded a station in society that few English literary authors would expect. Today, with the country successfully reunified and the post-war heritage entering a new, more optimistic stage, the world of German books is flourishing.Before we open the gates to the flood of suggestions of great and lesser-known German authors and works (no Austrians, mind - we'll save that other great nation of German-language literature for another month), I'll leave you with the words of Novalis, aka Friedrich von Hardenberg, one of the greatest of the Jena romantics, writing of language as\"a wonderful and fertile mystery: that when someone speaks merely in order to speak, one precisely then expresses the most splendid and most original truths.\"Substitute \"speak\" for \"write\", and one might have an honourable motto for the blogging spirit, no?And don't forget to vote on which country you think we should visit next.Read about former stop-offs on our world literature tour here.", "tags": ["Books", "Culture"], "title": "Join the world literature tour to Germany"},{"date": "2008-02-20T13:15:13Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Is Germany, Europe's biggest economy, a corporate swamp? As the tax evasion scandal triggered by Deutsche Post chief executive Klaus Zumwinkel grew this week, judges at a court in Braunschweig (Brunswick) prepared to pass more sentences in the long-running Volkswagen sex and bribery affair that has already claimed the scalp of the architect of the country's labour reforms.The tax scandal itself testifies to a stinking rottenness in many boardrooms where executives have pocketed huge salary increases and stock options while plotting with their tax advisers to squirrel their wealth over the border, first to Luxembourg and now, it transpires, to neighbouring Liechtenstein. All the while as they slash their workforces and impose effective wage-cuts.The German tax officers' union estimates that as much as \u20ac30bn (\u00a322.65bn) a year may be withheld from the exchequer. Media reports, based on leaks from the prosecutors and police involved in nationwide raids on offices and homes, point to sums of up to \u20ac4bn. Anything between 700 and 1,000 executives, some of them prominent, risk investigation while scores of them are hastily consulting their advisers and paying off their tax bills rapidly to escape fines or even imprisonment - or singing like canaries to the authorities.It's reported that when executives meet over cocktails it's not their latest round of golf or business coup they discuss but their tax bills and how to cut them. Anybody who declares his or her full income is widely viewed as a fool - unfit to run a business and maximise shareholder returns....As Josef Ackermann, the well-heeled (\u20ac15m a year at least) chief executive of Deutsche Bank, said this week, it would be wrong to visit the malfaisance of some on business as a whole. Or is it? When I discussed the issue with Peter von Blomberg, vice chairman of the German chapter of Transparency International, in mid-2005 when the VW scandal erupted, he told me this was \"just the tip of the iceberg\". Since then even more of the iceberg has emerged.Siemens, the country's biggest group by market cap, is spending millions of euros a week on investigating and clearing up a bribery scandal dating back years that has already cost the heads of several leading executives, including the former chairman and chief executives (though both deny personal involvement). It has cost the engineering group more than \u20ac1.6bn so far, including fines, but the final bill will almost certainly be a large multiple of that. And it has brought in an outsider as CEO, Peter Loescher, an Austrian not tainted by German corporate culture, to clean out the Augean stables - with the aid of an American chief compliance officer, Peter Solmssen.Rate expectationsSo what is to be done to clean up Germany as a whole? In the S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung, Peter Bofinger, one of Angela Merkel's \"five wise men\" or official economic advisers, calls for a new relationship between society and state instead of the current disturbed one. He argues that the state is widely presented and perceived as alien and spendthrift, throwing taxpayers' money away without any noticeable benefit for the citizens.Bofinger, a controversial outsider himself, insists that the tax take in Germany, where the top rate is 45%, is not too high and in fact is well below the EU average. He is a fierce opponent of tax cuts - as promulgated by Merkel's original choice as finance minister, Paul Kirchhof, who has consistently proposed a uniform 25% rate.In the same paper Kirchhof argues in an interview that the problem is the complexity of the tax rules which make them misunderstood and strengthen the feeling that the \"other\" is getting away with paying less. If everyone paid the same rate - and certainly not the 80% demanded by some union leaders - the outcome would be greater clarity and certainty. It's an intriguing argument but one dismissed by government and opposition so far. Their kneejerk reaction so far is simply to think of increasing the penalties for tax evasion. And new EU measures to stamp on European tax havens. Hardly enough to root out criminal self-enrichment on this scale. Pay showdownZumwinkel, named manager of the year in 2006 and a close Merkel adviser until his disgrace, is now out in the cold - even after reportedly paying \u20ac4m in underpaid tax over to the authorities. (Apparently, he declared so little interest on his savings he escaped any tax at all in at least one year). And, now that he's resigned, the Post has stopped paying him at all - and scrapped any golden goodbye.The revelations of his bottomless greed and that of other executives - 17.5% average pay rises in the past year - is grist to the mill of German unions limbering up for a showdown over pay this year after several years of restraint.This week saw more than 50,000 public sector workers down tools in pursuit of an 8% claim lodged by their union, Verdi, and others in response to a government offer of 5% staged over two years. They closed down swimming pools, theatres and kindergartens in a foretaste of what could become a \"hot spring\" - and autumn when engineering union IG Metall formally submits its own 8% claim.This puts the government on the horns of a dilemma as ministers from both sides of the grand coalition have argued that employees deserve to see their purchasing power increase as the economy continues to grow despite the credit crunch. It might boost consumer spending, finally, as investment- and export-led growth slackens.Cue Jean-Claude Trichet, European Central Bank president and scourge of \"excessive\" wage claims (those \"second-round effects\" of rising inflation he warns against). Merkel's government is the fiercest defender of the ECB's independence in the eurozone. But, if Trichet and his governing council colleagues, surprised us all by raising interest rates, would it still be the bank's cheerleader?", "tags": ["Economics", "Germany", "Tax and spending", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "David Gow: Taxing times for Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-26T14:30:28Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Aufkl\u00e4rung ... hundreds of lamps moulded after a bust of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. Photograph: Jens Meyer/APThe previous leg of our long-running world literature tour took us to Romania, where we explored the vibrant literary health of a country few of us know in any detail, despite being a fellow member of the European Union. Many suggestions came from Bucharest resident vic31, with particular recommendations for Mircea Cartarescu's epic trilogy (Aripa Stinga, Corpul, Aripa Dreapta /The Left Wing, The Body, The Right Wing), reminiscent of Updike, and Filip Florian's magical realist Degete Mici (Little Fingers), which follows the mystery of whether some bones unearthed during an archaeological dig are from an ancient Roman military camp or a 1950s mass grave. Another poster, AIBlyth, drew our attention to his own translation of Little Fingers, to be published in the US by Harcourt, before recommending contemporary novels from Dan Lungu (Hens' Heaven), Stefan Agopian (Tache de Velvet) and Doina Rusti (Zogru).Nilpferd was also on hand with some fascinating suggestions, notably the surrealist writer Urmuz, an important precursor to one of Romania's most famous literary sons, the Romanian-French playwright Eugen Ionescu.Delve further into Romania's rich literary landscape hereMoving closer to home, we now pick up our wayfarer's thread in Germany, cradle of Sturm und Drang, Romantic irony and heartfelt post-war political realism. Germany's literary tradition is, of course, one of the greatest, stretching from Goethe - one of the first genuinely international literary superstars - and Schiller to WG Sebald and Gunter Grass, writers accorded a station in society that few English literary authors would expect. Today, with the country successfully reunified and the post-war heritage entering a new, more optimistic stage, the world of German books is flourishing.Before we open the gates to the flood of suggestions of great and lesser-known German authors and works (no Austrians, mind - we'll save that other great nation of German-language literature for another month), I'll leave you with the words of Novalis, aka Friedrich von Hardenberg, one of the greatest of the Jena romantics, writing of language as\"a wonderful and fertile mystery: that when someone speaks merely in order to speak, one precisely then expresses the most splendid and most original truths.\"Substitute \"speak\" for \"write\", and one might have an honourable motto for the blogging spirit, no?And don't forget to vote on which country you think we should visit next.Read about former stop-offs on our world literature tour here.", "tags": ["Books", "Culture"], "title": "Join the world literature tour to Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-14T12:35:48Z", "country": "germany", "content": "David Montgomery seems to have a talent for antagonising employees - something you wouldn't guess from his somewhat dapper appearance and soft Ulster accent. When he was cutting a swathe through Mirror Group Newspapers in the 1990s, his nickname, famously, was Rommel - \"because Montgomery was on our side\". And now that his newspaper group Mecom has built a significant presence in five European countries in less than three years, he has encountered serious opposition in Germany.Earlier this week I met some representatives from the two largest German papers in the Mecom stable, the Berliner Zeitung and Hamburger Morgenpost. They were dismayed by what has happened to their newspapers since Mecom's takeover. They have learned of a 5m euro cost-cutting programme and in Berlin have watched some 19 journalists walk out of the door.These people have not been replaced - a big deal with editorial staff now standing at 130 - and journalists see this as a redundancy programme by stealth. The fear is that quality will suffer and in the long-term circulation will fall as a result.The other big gripe is the controversial position of Josef Depenbrock, the editor-in-chief of Mecom's German business who was elevated to take on the additional role of managing director last year. Insiders talk of a power struggle between him and the Mecom chief digital officer, Peter Skulimma.When I spoke to Montgomery yesterday, as Mecom reported annual results, he said journalists had to get with the multimedia programme. He wants them to produce journalism across print and online, where the future growth will come from. Montgomery also defended Depenbrock's position, arguing that his journalistic background made him a guarantor of editorial quality.Behind the squabbles at the papers, the deeper problem is that German newspapers have never known an owner like Montgomery. Many media companies are still owned by families: to take arguably the two biggest names, Bertelsmann is fully in the hands of the Mohns and Axel Springer is still majority-owned by the founder's widow Friede Springer. There is also a cultural suspicion of business, as Susanne Lang of die Tageszeitung explained here in January.\"In Germany it's a completely new phenomenon that a paper is owned by shareholders where in theory 100% of shares can be acquired freely in the market,\" one German journalist told me this week.Such companies are answerable to their shareholders and are obliged to seek ever greater returns. They also have to pay off interest on the loans used to buy the companies: profitability becomes the key priority.\"The problem is where the business is financed by loans and you have to pay interest, the burden of the cost of having to pay that interest can only be passed on to the employees,\" says Michael Klehm of the German journalists' union, DJV. \"And they are being constantly pressured to make more profits because they need to find money to fund interest.\"Montgomery's answer is that he is a long-term owner and that he is investing in a multimedia future. He told me yesterday: \"In return we ask people to join in and ask them to contribute - and indeed that's happening to tremendous effect in other countries and to some extent in Germany... Once Germany starts to respond they will probably do it better than anybody else. These are very small and temporary protests: undoubtedly when the Germans all get involved it will be tremendously successful.\"This is more than an Anglo-German culture clash, however. The traditional family ownership of newspapers, which has subjected journalists to the whims of proprietors but also tended to guarantee more investment than the City would countenance, is breaking down.Look at the pressure on Anthony O'Reilly at Independent News & Media, where 20% shareholder Denis O'Brien is agitating for the sale of the loss-making Independent titles. Or at the New York Times company, where the Sulzberger dynasty is under attack from hard-nosed financial investors.Here in the UK, you have to look no further than Monty's old company. Trinity Mirror has consistently cut costs - which often means laying off journalists - and looked to digital revenues to compensate for the long-term decline in print. Owned entirely in the market, Trinity is answerable to shareholders and is obliged to do what's best for them.And to take another example, the demise of the regional press is blamed by many - not least Nick Davies in Flat Earth News - on the corporate ownership into which it has fallen in recent decades.The battle between Monty and the Germans is just part of a much bigger war between those who want to run newspapers for profit and those who would always put editorial quality first.", "tags": ["Mecom", "David Montgomery", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media"], "title": "Montgomery faces a fight in Germany"},{"date": "2008-02-20T13:15:13Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Is Germany, Europe's biggest economy, a corporate swamp? As the tax evasion scandal triggered by Deutsche Post chief executive Klaus Zumwinkel grew this week, judges at a court in Braunschweig (Brunswick) prepared to pass more sentences in the long-running Volkswagen sex and bribery affair that has already claimed the scalp of the architect of the country's labour reforms.The tax scandal itself testifies to a stinking rottenness in many boardrooms where executives have pocketed huge salary increases and stock options while plotting with their tax advisers to squirrel their wealth over the border, first to Luxembourg and now, it transpires, to neighbouring Liechtenstein. All the while as they slash their workforces and impose effective wage-cuts.The German tax officers' union estimates that as much as \u20ac30bn (\u00a322.65bn) a year may be withheld from the exchequer. Media reports, based on leaks from the prosecutors and police involved in nationwide raids on offices and homes, point to sums of up to \u20ac4bn. Anything between 700 and 1,000 executives, some of them prominent, risk investigation while scores of them are hastily consulting their advisers and paying off their tax bills rapidly to escape fines or even imprisonment - or singing like canaries to the authorities.It's reported that when executives meet over cocktails it's not their latest round of golf or business coup they discuss but their tax bills and how to cut them. Anybody who declares his or her full income is widely viewed as a fool - unfit to run a business and maximise shareholder returns....As Josef Ackermann, the well-heeled (\u20ac15m a year at least) chief executive of Deutsche Bank, said this week, it would be wrong to visit the malfaisance of some on business as a whole. Or is it? When I discussed the issue with Peter von Blomberg, vice chairman of the German chapter of Transparency International, in mid-2005 when the VW scandal erupted, he told me this was \"just the tip of the iceberg\". Since then even more of the iceberg has emerged.Siemens, the country's biggest group by market cap, is spending millions of euros a week on investigating and clearing up a bribery scandal dating back years that has already cost the heads of several leading executives, including the former chairman and chief executives (though both deny personal involvement). It has cost the engineering group more than \u20ac1.6bn so far, including fines, but the final bill will almost certainly be a large multiple of that. And it has brought in an outsider as CEO, Peter Loescher, an Austrian not tainted by German corporate culture, to clean out the Augean stables - with the aid of an American chief compliance officer, Peter Solmssen.Rate expectationsSo what is to be done to clean up Germany as a whole? In the S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung, Peter Bofinger, one of Angela Merkel's \"five wise men\" or official economic advisers, calls for a new relationship between society and state instead of the current disturbed one. He argues that the state is widely presented and perceived as alien and spendthrift, throwing taxpayers' money away without any noticeable benefit for the citizens.Bofinger, a controversial outsider himself, insists that the tax take in Germany, where the top rate is 45%, is not too high and in fact is well below the EU average. He is a fierce opponent of tax cuts - as promulgated by Merkel's original choice as finance minister, Paul Kirchhof, who has consistently proposed a uniform 25% rate.In the same paper Kirchhof argues in an interview that the problem is the complexity of the tax rules which make them misunderstood and strengthen the feeling that the \"other\" is getting away with paying less. If everyone paid the same rate - and certainly not the 80% demanded by some union leaders - the outcome would be greater clarity and certainty. It's an intriguing argument but one dismissed by government and opposition so far. Their kneejerk reaction so far is simply to think of increasing the penalties for tax evasion. And new EU measures to stamp on European tax havens. Hardly enough to root out criminal self-enrichment on this scale. Pay showdownZumwinkel, named manager of the year in 2006 and a close Merkel adviser until his disgrace, is now out in the cold - even after reportedly paying \u20ac4m in underpaid tax over to the authorities. (Apparently, he declared so little interest on his savings he escaped any tax at all in at least one year). And, now that he's resigned, the Post has stopped paying him at all - and scrapped any golden goodbye.The revelations of his bottomless greed and that of other executives - 17.5% average pay rises in the past year - is grist to the mill of German unions limbering up for a showdown over pay this year after several years of restraint.This week saw more than 50,000 public sector workers down tools in pursuit of an 8% claim lodged by their union, Verdi, and others in response to a government offer of 5% staged over two years. They closed down swimming pools, theatres and kindergartens in a foretaste of what could become a \"hot spring\" - and autumn when engineering union IG Metall formally submits its own 8% claim.This puts the government on the horns of a dilemma as ministers from both sides of the grand coalition have argued that employees deserve to see their purchasing power increase as the economy continues to grow despite the credit crunch. It might boost consumer spending, finally, as investment- and export-led growth slackens.Cue Jean-Claude Trichet, European Central Bank president and scourge of \"excessive\" wage claims (those \"second-round effects\" of rising inflation he warns against). Merkel's government is the fiercest defender of the ECB's independence in the eurozone. But, if Trichet and his governing council colleagues, surprised us all by raising interest rates, would it still be the bank's cheerleader?", "tags": ["Economics", "Germany", "Tax and spending", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "David Gow: Taxing times for Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-26T14:30:28Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Aufkl\u00e4rung ... hundreds of lamps moulded after a bust of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. Photograph: Jens Meyer/APThe previous leg of our long-running world literature tour took us to Romania, where we explored the vibrant literary health of a country few of us know in any detail, despite being a fellow member of the European Union. Many suggestions came from Bucharest resident vic31, with particular recommendations for Mircea Cartarescu's epic trilogy (Aripa Stinga, Corpul, Aripa Dreapta /The Left Wing, The Body, The Right Wing), reminiscent of Updike, and Filip Florian's magical realist Degete Mici (Little Fingers), which follows the mystery of whether some bones unearthed during an archaeological dig are from an ancient Roman military camp or a 1950s mass grave. Another poster, AIBlyth, drew our attention to his own translation of Little Fingers, to be published in the US by Harcourt, before recommending contemporary novels from Dan Lungu (Hens' Heaven), Stefan Agopian (Tache de Velvet) and Doina Rusti (Zogru).Nilpferd was also on hand with some fascinating suggestions, notably the surrealist writer Urmuz, an important precursor to one of Romania's most famous literary sons, the Romanian-French playwright Eugen Ionescu.Delve further into Romania's rich literary landscape hereMoving closer to home, we now pick up our wayfarer's thread in Germany, cradle of Sturm und Drang, Romantic irony and heartfelt post-war political realism. Germany's literary tradition is, of course, one of the greatest, stretching from Goethe - one of the first genuinely international literary superstars - and Schiller to WG Sebald and Gunter Grass, writers accorded a station in society that few English literary authors would expect. Today, with the country successfully reunified and the post-war heritage entering a new, more optimistic stage, the world of German books is flourishing.Before we open the gates to the flood of suggestions of great and lesser-known German authors and works (no Austrians, mind - we'll save that other great nation of German-language literature for another month), I'll leave you with the words of Novalis, aka Friedrich von Hardenberg, one of the greatest of the Jena romantics, writing of language as\"a wonderful and fertile mystery: that when someone speaks merely in order to speak, one precisely then expresses the most splendid and most original truths.\"Substitute \"speak\" for \"write\", and one might have an honourable motto for the blogging spirit, no?And don't forget to vote on which country you think we should visit next.Read about former stop-offs on our world literature tour here.", "tags": ["Books", "Culture"], "title": "Join the world literature tour to Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-14T12:35:48Z", "country": "germany", "content": "David Montgomery seems to have a talent for antagonising employees - something you wouldn't guess from his somewhat dapper appearance and soft Ulster accent. When he was cutting a swathe through Mirror Group Newspapers in the 1990s, his nickname, famously, was Rommel - \"because Montgomery was on our side\". And now that his newspaper group Mecom has built a significant presence in five European countries in less than three years, he has encountered serious opposition in Germany.Earlier this week I met some representatives from the two largest German papers in the Mecom stable, the Berliner Zeitung and Hamburger Morgenpost. They were dismayed by what has happened to their newspapers since Mecom's takeover. They have learned of a 5m euro cost-cutting programme and in Berlin have watched some 19 journalists walk out of the door.These people have not been replaced - a big deal with editorial staff now standing at 130 - and journalists see this as a redundancy programme by stealth. The fear is that quality will suffer and in the long-term circulation will fall as a result.The other big gripe is the controversial position of Josef Depenbrock, the editor-in-chief of Mecom's German business who was elevated to take on the additional role of managing director last year. Insiders talk of a power struggle between him and the Mecom chief digital officer, Peter Skulimma.When I spoke to Montgomery yesterday, as Mecom reported annual results, he said journalists had to get with the multimedia programme. He wants them to produce journalism across print and online, where the future growth will come from. Montgomery also defended Depenbrock's position, arguing that his journalistic background made him a guarantor of editorial quality.Behind the squabbles at the papers, the deeper problem is that German newspapers have never known an owner like Montgomery. Many media companies are still owned by families: to take arguably the two biggest names, Bertelsmann is fully in the hands of the Mohns and Axel Springer is still majority-owned by the founder's widow Friede Springer. There is also a cultural suspicion of business, as Susanne Lang of die Tageszeitung explained here in January.\"In Germany it's a completely new phenomenon that a paper is owned by shareholders where in theory 100% of shares can be acquired freely in the market,\" one German journalist told me this week.Such companies are answerable to their shareholders and are obliged to seek ever greater returns. They also have to pay off interest on the loans used to buy the companies: profitability becomes the key priority.\"The problem is where the business is financed by loans and you have to pay interest, the burden of the cost of having to pay that interest can only be passed on to the employees,\" says Michael Klehm of the German journalists' union, DJV. \"And they are being constantly pressured to make more profits because they need to find money to fund interest.\"Montgomery's answer is that he is a long-term owner and that he is investing in a multimedia future. He told me yesterday: \"In return we ask people to join in and ask them to contribute - and indeed that's happening to tremendous effect in other countries and to some extent in Germany... Once Germany starts to respond they will probably do it better than anybody else. These are very small and temporary protests: undoubtedly when the Germans all get involved it will be tremendously successful.\"This is more than an Anglo-German culture clash, however. The traditional family ownership of newspapers, which has subjected journalists to the whims of proprietors but also tended to guarantee more investment than the City would countenance, is breaking down.Look at the pressure on Anthony O'Reilly at Independent News & Media, where 20% shareholder Denis O'Brien is agitating for the sale of the loss-making Independent titles. Or at the New York Times company, where the Sulzberger dynasty is under attack from hard-nosed financial investors.Here in the UK, you have to look no further than Monty's old company. Trinity Mirror has consistently cut costs - which often means laying off journalists - and looked to digital revenues to compensate for the long-term decline in print. Owned entirely in the market, Trinity is answerable to shareholders and is obliged to do what's best for them.And to take another example, the demise of the regional press is blamed by many - not least Nick Davies in Flat Earth News - on the corporate ownership into which it has fallen in recent decades.The battle between Monty and the Germans is just part of a much bigger war between those who want to run newspapers for profit and those who would always put editorial quality first.", "tags": ["Mecom", "David Montgomery", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media"], "title": "Montgomery faces a fight in Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-14T00:18:41Z", "country": "germany", "content": "President Nicolas Sarkozy was last night forced to back away from an ambitious scheme to launch a French-led \"Mediterranean Union\" linking the EU's southern states in a political club with the Maghreb, Turkey and Middle Eastern countries including Israel.Sarkozy had planned to launch the bold new union when France took over the presidency of the EU in July, but climbed down after fierce opposition from Angela Merkel, the German chancellor.At an EU summit in Brussels last night, Sarkozy and Merkel jointly proposed a much looser grouping, to be initiated at a summit of EU and Mediterranean countries in Paris in July.Worried that the Sarkozy scheme would split the EU while leaving the wealthier countries of Germany and Scandinavia footing the bill for an exercise in French aggrandisement, Merkel was said to have threatened to boycott the Paris summit unless Sarkozy scaled back his plans.\"She was very firm,\" said EU diplomats. \"They had quite a fight about this.\"German sources described the compromise last night as a facesaving deal for Sarkozy which gutted the scheme of much of its substance. The new organisation would still be called a Mediterranean Union, but bore faint resemblance to the original French blueprint.The collision over Sarkozy's project was the latest in a series of clashes between Europe's two key leaders. Diplomats say the fundamental problem is one of personal chemistry, with Merkel's self-effacing sobriety jarring with Sarkozy's attention-seeking theatricality.The Mediterranean Union was conceived by Sarkozy's adviser Henri Guaino, who hoped it would put France in a dominating position in the Mediterranean while restoring Paris's European leadership credentials. It would have linked the southern countries of the EU with 11 countries in north Africa and the Middle East. Sarkozy called for \"a political, economic, and cultural union of which our children would be proud\" in a speech in Tangiers last year.Britain also opposed the plan, suspecting it was designed to wreck any chance of Turkey joining the EU. Britain is Turkey's biggest supporter in the EU, while Sarkozy is outspokenly opposed to Ankara joining.Merkel warned Sarkozy that his idea would have divided the EU into traditional spheres of influence. Last night's deal was preceded by 10 days of difficult negotiations between Paris and Berlin. The result is that all 27 EU countries will be \"equally\" involved in the \"Club Med\" association and that Sarkozy has scrapped planning for a summit of Mediterranean countries in Paris in July.While backtracking, however, Sarkozy has succeeded in pushing the Mediterranean issue up the EU agenda and establishing new structures and positions to bolster his ideas, diplomats said. There are to be Mediterranean summits every two years, and two co-presidents of the new union.", "tags": ["France", "European Union", "Germany", "World news", "Politics", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Europe"], "title": "Germany pours cold water on Sarkozy union"},{"date": "2008-02-20T13:15:13Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Is Germany, Europe's biggest economy, a corporate swamp? As the tax evasion scandal triggered by Deutsche Post chief executive Klaus Zumwinkel grew this week, judges at a court in Braunschweig (Brunswick) prepared to pass more sentences in the long-running Volkswagen sex and bribery affair that has already claimed the scalp of the architect of the country's labour reforms.The tax scandal itself testifies to a stinking rottenness in many boardrooms where executives have pocketed huge salary increases and stock options while plotting with their tax advisers to squirrel their wealth over the border, first to Luxembourg and now, it transpires, to neighbouring Liechtenstein. All the while as they slash their workforces and impose effective wage-cuts.The German tax officers' union estimates that as much as \u20ac30bn (\u00a322.65bn) a year may be withheld from the exchequer. Media reports, based on leaks from the prosecutors and police involved in nationwide raids on offices and homes, point to sums of up to \u20ac4bn. Anything between 700 and 1,000 executives, some of them prominent, risk investigation while scores of them are hastily consulting their advisers and paying off their tax bills rapidly to escape fines or even imprisonment - or singing like canaries to the authorities.It's reported that when executives meet over cocktails it's not their latest round of golf or business coup they discuss but their tax bills and how to cut them. Anybody who declares his or her full income is widely viewed as a fool - unfit to run a business and maximise shareholder returns....As Josef Ackermann, the well-heeled (\u20ac15m a year at least) chief executive of Deutsche Bank, said this week, it would be wrong to visit the malfaisance of some on business as a whole. Or is it? When I discussed the issue with Peter von Blomberg, vice chairman of the German chapter of Transparency International, in mid-2005 when the VW scandal erupted, he told me this was \"just the tip of the iceberg\". Since then even more of the iceberg has emerged.Siemens, the country's biggest group by market cap, is spending millions of euros a week on investigating and clearing up a bribery scandal dating back years that has already cost the heads of several leading executives, including the former chairman and chief executives (though both deny personal involvement). It has cost the engineering group more than \u20ac1.6bn so far, including fines, but the final bill will almost certainly be a large multiple of that. And it has brought in an outsider as CEO, Peter Loescher, an Austrian not tainted by German corporate culture, to clean out the Augean stables - with the aid of an American chief compliance officer, Peter Solmssen.Rate expectationsSo what is to be done to clean up Germany as a whole? In the S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung, Peter Bofinger, one of Angela Merkel's \"five wise men\" or official economic advisers, calls for a new relationship between society and state instead of the current disturbed one. He argues that the state is widely presented and perceived as alien and spendthrift, throwing taxpayers' money away without any noticeable benefit for the citizens.Bofinger, a controversial outsider himself, insists that the tax take in Germany, where the top rate is 45%, is not too high and in fact is well below the EU average. He is a fierce opponent of tax cuts - as promulgated by Merkel's original choice as finance minister, Paul Kirchhof, who has consistently proposed a uniform 25% rate.In the same paper Kirchhof argues in an interview that the problem is the complexity of the tax rules which make them misunderstood and strengthen the feeling that the \"other\" is getting away with paying less. If everyone paid the same rate - and certainly not the 80% demanded by some union leaders - the outcome would be greater clarity and certainty. It's an intriguing argument but one dismissed by government and opposition so far. Their kneejerk reaction so far is simply to think of increasing the penalties for tax evasion. And new EU measures to stamp on European tax havens. Hardly enough to root out criminal self-enrichment on this scale. Pay showdownZumwinkel, named manager of the year in 2006 and a close Merkel adviser until his disgrace, is now out in the cold - even after reportedly paying \u20ac4m in underpaid tax over to the authorities. (Apparently, he declared so little interest on his savings he escaped any tax at all in at least one year). And, now that he's resigned, the Post has stopped paying him at all - and scrapped any golden goodbye.The revelations of his bottomless greed and that of other executives - 17.5% average pay rises in the past year - is grist to the mill of German unions limbering up for a showdown over pay this year after several years of restraint.This week saw more than 50,000 public sector workers down tools in pursuit of an 8% claim lodged by their union, Verdi, and others in response to a government offer of 5% staged over two years. They closed down swimming pools, theatres and kindergartens in a foretaste of what could become a \"hot spring\" - and autumn when engineering union IG Metall formally submits its own 8% claim.This puts the government on the horns of a dilemma as ministers from both sides of the grand coalition have argued that employees deserve to see their purchasing power increase as the economy continues to grow despite the credit crunch. It might boost consumer spending, finally, as investment- and export-led growth slackens.Cue Jean-Claude Trichet, European Central Bank president and scourge of \"excessive\" wage claims (those \"second-round effects\" of rising inflation he warns against). Merkel's government is the fiercest defender of the ECB's independence in the eurozone. But, if Trichet and his governing council colleagues, surprised us all by raising interest rates, would it still be the bank's cheerleader?", "tags": ["Economics", "Germany", "Tax and spending", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "David Gow: Taxing times for Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-26T14:30:28Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Aufkl\u00e4rung ... hundreds of lamps moulded after a bust of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. Photograph: Jens Meyer/APThe previous leg of our long-running world literature tour took us to Romania, where we explored the vibrant literary health of a country few of us know in any detail, despite being a fellow member of the European Union. Many suggestions came from Bucharest resident vic31, with particular recommendations for Mircea Cartarescu's epic trilogy (Aripa Stinga, Corpul, Aripa Dreapta /The Left Wing, The Body, The Right Wing), reminiscent of Updike, and Filip Florian's magical realist Degete Mici (Little Fingers), which follows the mystery of whether some bones unearthed during an archaeological dig are from an ancient Roman military camp or a 1950s mass grave. Another poster, AIBlyth, drew our attention to his own translation of Little Fingers, to be published in the US by Harcourt, before recommending contemporary novels from Dan Lungu (Hens' Heaven), Stefan Agopian (Tache de Velvet) and Doina Rusti (Zogru).Nilpferd was also on hand with some fascinating suggestions, notably the surrealist writer Urmuz, an important precursor to one of Romania's most famous literary sons, the Romanian-French playwright Eugen Ionescu.Delve further into Romania's rich literary landscape hereMoving closer to home, we now pick up our wayfarer's thread in Germany, cradle of Sturm und Drang, Romantic irony and heartfelt post-war political realism. Germany's literary tradition is, of course, one of the greatest, stretching from Goethe - one of the first genuinely international literary superstars - and Schiller to WG Sebald and Gunter Grass, writers accorded a station in society that few English literary authors would expect. Today, with the country successfully reunified and the post-war heritage entering a new, more optimistic stage, the world of German books is flourishing.Before we open the gates to the flood of suggestions of great and lesser-known German authors and works (no Austrians, mind - we'll save that other great nation of German-language literature for another month), I'll leave you with the words of Novalis, aka Friedrich von Hardenberg, one of the greatest of the Jena romantics, writing of language as\"a wonderful and fertile mystery: that when someone speaks merely in order to speak, one precisely then expresses the most splendid and most original truths.\"Substitute \"speak\" for \"write\", and one might have an honourable motto for the blogging spirit, no?And don't forget to vote on which country you think we should visit next.Read about former stop-offs on our world literature tour here.", "tags": ["Books", "Culture"], "title": "Join the world literature tour to Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-14T12:35:48Z", "country": "germany", "content": "David Montgomery seems to have a talent for antagonising employees - something you wouldn't guess from his somewhat dapper appearance and soft Ulster accent. When he was cutting a swathe through Mirror Group Newspapers in the 1990s, his nickname, famously, was Rommel - \"because Montgomery was on our side\". And now that his newspaper group Mecom has built a significant presence in five European countries in less than three years, he has encountered serious opposition in Germany.Earlier this week I met some representatives from the two largest German papers in the Mecom stable, the Berliner Zeitung and Hamburger Morgenpost. They were dismayed by what has happened to their newspapers since Mecom's takeover. They have learned of a 5m euro cost-cutting programme and in Berlin have watched some 19 journalists walk out of the door.These people have not been replaced - a big deal with editorial staff now standing at 130 - and journalists see this as a redundancy programme by stealth. The fear is that quality will suffer and in the long-term circulation will fall as a result.The other big gripe is the controversial position of Josef Depenbrock, the editor-in-chief of Mecom's German business who was elevated to take on the additional role of managing director last year. Insiders talk of a power struggle between him and the Mecom chief digital officer, Peter Skulimma.When I spoke to Montgomery yesterday, as Mecom reported annual results, he said journalists had to get with the multimedia programme. He wants them to produce journalism across print and online, where the future growth will come from. Montgomery also defended Depenbrock's position, arguing that his journalistic background made him a guarantor of editorial quality.Behind the squabbles at the papers, the deeper problem is that German newspapers have never known an owner like Montgomery. Many media companies are still owned by families: to take arguably the two biggest names, Bertelsmann is fully in the hands of the Mohns and Axel Springer is still majority-owned by the founder's widow Friede Springer. There is also a cultural suspicion of business, as Susanne Lang of die Tageszeitung explained here in January.\"In Germany it's a completely new phenomenon that a paper is owned by shareholders where in theory 100% of shares can be acquired freely in the market,\" one German journalist told me this week.Such companies are answerable to their shareholders and are obliged to seek ever greater returns. They also have to pay off interest on the loans used to buy the companies: profitability becomes the key priority.\"The problem is where the business is financed by loans and you have to pay interest, the burden of the cost of having to pay that interest can only be passed on to the employees,\" says Michael Klehm of the German journalists' union, DJV. \"And they are being constantly pressured to make more profits because they need to find money to fund interest.\"Montgomery's answer is that he is a long-term owner and that he is investing in a multimedia future. He told me yesterday: \"In return we ask people to join in and ask them to contribute - and indeed that's happening to tremendous effect in other countries and to some extent in Germany... Once Germany starts to respond they will probably do it better than anybody else. These are very small and temporary protests: undoubtedly when the Germans all get involved it will be tremendously successful.\"This is more than an Anglo-German culture clash, however. The traditional family ownership of newspapers, which has subjected journalists to the whims of proprietors but also tended to guarantee more investment than the City would countenance, is breaking down.Look at the pressure on Anthony O'Reilly at Independent News & Media, where 20% shareholder Denis O'Brien is agitating for the sale of the loss-making Independent titles. Or at the New York Times company, where the Sulzberger dynasty is under attack from hard-nosed financial investors.Here in the UK, you have to look no further than Monty's old company. Trinity Mirror has consistently cut costs - which often means laying off journalists - and looked to digital revenues to compensate for the long-term decline in print. Owned entirely in the market, Trinity is answerable to shareholders and is obliged to do what's best for them.And to take another example, the demise of the regional press is blamed by many - not least Nick Davies in Flat Earth News - on the corporate ownership into which it has fallen in recent decades.The battle between Monty and the Germans is just part of a much bigger war between those who want to run newspapers for profit and those who would always put editorial quality first.", "tags": ["Mecom", "David Montgomery", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media"], "title": "Montgomery faces a fight in Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-14T00:18:41Z", "country": "germany", "content": "President Nicolas Sarkozy was last night forced to back away from an ambitious scheme to launch a French-led \"Mediterranean Union\" linking the EU's southern states in a political club with the Maghreb, Turkey and Middle Eastern countries including Israel.Sarkozy had planned to launch the bold new union when France took over the presidency of the EU in July, but climbed down after fierce opposition from Angela Merkel, the German chancellor.At an EU summit in Brussels last night, Sarkozy and Merkel jointly proposed a much looser grouping, to be initiated at a summit of EU and Mediterranean countries in Paris in July.Worried that the Sarkozy scheme would split the EU while leaving the wealthier countries of Germany and Scandinavia footing the bill for an exercise in French aggrandisement, Merkel was said to have threatened to boycott the Paris summit unless Sarkozy scaled back his plans.\"She was very firm,\" said EU diplomats. \"They had quite a fight about this.\"German sources described the compromise last night as a facesaving deal for Sarkozy which gutted the scheme of much of its substance. The new organisation would still be called a Mediterranean Union, but bore faint resemblance to the original French blueprint.The collision over Sarkozy's project was the latest in a series of clashes between Europe's two key leaders. Diplomats say the fundamental problem is one of personal chemistry, with Merkel's self-effacing sobriety jarring with Sarkozy's attention-seeking theatricality.The Mediterranean Union was conceived by Sarkozy's adviser Henri Guaino, who hoped it would put France in a dominating position in the Mediterranean while restoring Paris's European leadership credentials. It would have linked the southern countries of the EU with 11 countries in north Africa and the Middle East. Sarkozy called for \"a political, economic, and cultural union of which our children would be proud\" in a speech in Tangiers last year.Britain also opposed the plan, suspecting it was designed to wreck any chance of Turkey joining the EU. Britain is Turkey's biggest supporter in the EU, while Sarkozy is outspokenly opposed to Ankara joining.Merkel warned Sarkozy that his idea would have divided the EU into traditional spheres of influence. Last night's deal was preceded by 10 days of difficult negotiations between Paris and Berlin. The result is that all 27 EU countries will be \"equally\" involved in the \"Club Med\" association and that Sarkozy has scrapped planning for a summit of Mediterranean countries in Paris in July.While backtracking, however, Sarkozy has succeeded in pushing the Mediterranean issue up the EU agenda and establishing new structures and positions to bolster his ideas, diplomats said. There are to be Mediterranean summits every two years, and two co-presidents of the new union.", "tags": ["France", "European Union", "Germany", "World news", "Politics", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Europe"], "title": "Germany pours cold water on Sarkozy union"},{"date": "2008-03-06T14:49:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany risks becoming ungovernable, condemned to a new era of unstable minority rule, fragile coalitions, and lame duck chancellors, a former German head of state warned today.With the \"grand coalition\" of Christian and social democrats (CDU and SPD) under Chancellor Angela Merkel increasingly gridlocked, and unprecedented coalitions being mooted in key German states, Roman Herzog, a former German president and ex-head of the constitutional court, called for changes to the constitution and the electoral system to counter the drift towards government paralysis.\"We are dealing with a fundamental shift in our system of government,\" said Herzog in a lengthy analysis in Munich's S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung. \"It will be increasingly difficult to form and maintain stable absolute majorities. Put plainly, the danger of minority governments will grow.\"Life will be hard for a minority chancellor. Abroad and particularly in Brussels, he will be seen as a 'lame duck' whose days are numbered, with whom there's no point in running longer-term political projects. If you look realistically at modern international politics, you will realise how detrimental that might be for Germany.\"Calling for an overhaul of the rules fixing how Germany forms its governments, Herzog raised the spectre of the Weimar Republic, the ramshackle democracy between the wars which collapsed in chaos and runaway inflation, paving the way for Adolf Hitler.The anxiety over the state of German politics has been triggered by the rise of the Left, a new party of former east German communists and hard-left defectors from the social democrats in western Germany, led by Oskar Lafontaine, the maverick former SPD leader and finance minister.As a result of recent successes at the ballot box, it is now represented in 10 of Germany's 16 federal states or L\u00e4nder, as well as in the national parliament in Berlin, turning the country's politics into a five-party system in which it is increasingly impossible to form majority coalitions between natural partners.In the state of Hessen around Frankfurt, the social democrats are currently breaking the mould by negotiating a minority government with the Greens, which will be maintained by the tacit support of the Left party, despite previous SPD pledges never to work with the Left.And after recent elections in Hamburg, the Christian democrats are exploring the first coalition in the country between the CDU and the Greens, because it is the only viable governing option.The core of the problem is the long-term trend of erosion of support for the two big national parties, the CDU and the SPD, in Germany's proportional representation system. They now struggle to muster 70% support between them, while the fringe parties - the free market liberals of the FDP, the Greens and the Left - each take up to 10%. Neither of the two big parties can rely on a single junior partner to form a majority.For the entire post-war period, German democracy has been a three-party system, morphing into a four-party arrangement with the rise of the Greens in the 1980s. That has now changed.Herzog warned that the entrenchment of the hard left in German politics is likely to be mirrored by the emergence of a stronger extreme right, turning Germany into a six-party system.\"The possibility of a sixth party, which would not need to be neo-fascist, cannot be quite excluded.\"Herzog's intervention, which is certain to trigger a bout of soul-searching and anxiety over the direction of German politics, comes as the Merkel government drifts into immobility amid a wave of strikes and industrial action.The chancellor accuses her SPD coalition partner of wanting to be both government and opposition, since the SPD leader, Kurt Beck, is not in the cabinet, and has shifted the party to the left to try to win back votes from its hard-left rival.Moderate SPD politicians are stunned by the party's move to collaborate with the hard-left renegades in Hessen following repeated election campaign pledges never to do so.Herzog called for a national debate over how to change the constitution and electoral laws to streamline the system. A British-style system of first-past-the-post winners guaranteeing majority governments would \"never\" be tolerated by the Germans, he said, because a majority of parliamentary seats could be secured from a minority of the popular vote.He preferred the French system of run-offs for parliamentary seats because it favoured the big parties while leaving more scope for the small parties to strike bargains.He also called for constitutional changes on how Germany's upper house or federal council (representing the 16 states) operates, since the passing of most financial legislation by the central government could otherwise be stymied.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany becoming ungovernable, says former president"},{"date": "2008-02-20T13:15:13Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Is Germany, Europe's biggest economy, a corporate swamp? As the tax evasion scandal triggered by Deutsche Post chief executive Klaus Zumwinkel grew this week, judges at a court in Braunschweig (Brunswick) prepared to pass more sentences in the long-running Volkswagen sex and bribery affair that has already claimed the scalp of the architect of the country's labour reforms.The tax scandal itself testifies to a stinking rottenness in many boardrooms where executives have pocketed huge salary increases and stock options while plotting with their tax advisers to squirrel their wealth over the border, first to Luxembourg and now, it transpires, to neighbouring Liechtenstein. All the while as they slash their workforces and impose effective wage-cuts.The German tax officers' union estimates that as much as \u20ac30bn (\u00a322.65bn) a year may be withheld from the exchequer. Media reports, based on leaks from the prosecutors and police involved in nationwide raids on offices and homes, point to sums of up to \u20ac4bn. Anything between 700 and 1,000 executives, some of them prominent, risk investigation while scores of them are hastily consulting their advisers and paying off their tax bills rapidly to escape fines or even imprisonment - or singing like canaries to the authorities.It's reported that when executives meet over cocktails it's not their latest round of golf or business coup they discuss but their tax bills and how to cut them. Anybody who declares his or her full income is widely viewed as a fool - unfit to run a business and maximise shareholder returns....As Josef Ackermann, the well-heeled (\u20ac15m a year at least) chief executive of Deutsche Bank, said this week, it would be wrong to visit the malfaisance of some on business as a whole. Or is it? When I discussed the issue with Peter von Blomberg, vice chairman of the German chapter of Transparency International, in mid-2005 when the VW scandal erupted, he told me this was \"just the tip of the iceberg\". Since then even more of the iceberg has emerged.Siemens, the country's biggest group by market cap, is spending millions of euros a week on investigating and clearing up a bribery scandal dating back years that has already cost the heads of several leading executives, including the former chairman and chief executives (though both deny personal involvement). It has cost the engineering group more than \u20ac1.6bn so far, including fines, but the final bill will almost certainly be a large multiple of that. And it has brought in an outsider as CEO, Peter Loescher, an Austrian not tainted by German corporate culture, to clean out the Augean stables - with the aid of an American chief compliance officer, Peter Solmssen.Rate expectationsSo what is to be done to clean up Germany as a whole? In the S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung, Peter Bofinger, one of Angela Merkel's \"five wise men\" or official economic advisers, calls for a new relationship between society and state instead of the current disturbed one. He argues that the state is widely presented and perceived as alien and spendthrift, throwing taxpayers' money away without any noticeable benefit for the citizens.Bofinger, a controversial outsider himself, insists that the tax take in Germany, where the top rate is 45%, is not too high and in fact is well below the EU average. He is a fierce opponent of tax cuts - as promulgated by Merkel's original choice as finance minister, Paul Kirchhof, who has consistently proposed a uniform 25% rate.In the same paper Kirchhof argues in an interview that the problem is the complexity of the tax rules which make them misunderstood and strengthen the feeling that the \"other\" is getting away with paying less. If everyone paid the same rate - and certainly not the 80% demanded by some union leaders - the outcome would be greater clarity and certainty. It's an intriguing argument but one dismissed by government and opposition so far. Their kneejerk reaction so far is simply to think of increasing the penalties for tax evasion. And new EU measures to stamp on European tax havens. Hardly enough to root out criminal self-enrichment on this scale. Pay showdownZumwinkel, named manager of the year in 2006 and a close Merkel adviser until his disgrace, is now out in the cold - even after reportedly paying \u20ac4m in underpaid tax over to the authorities. (Apparently, he declared so little interest on his savings he escaped any tax at all in at least one year). And, now that he's resigned, the Post has stopped paying him at all - and scrapped any golden goodbye.The revelations of his bottomless greed and that of other executives - 17.5% average pay rises in the past year - is grist to the mill of German unions limbering up for a showdown over pay this year after several years of restraint.This week saw more than 50,000 public sector workers down tools in pursuit of an 8% claim lodged by their union, Verdi, and others in response to a government offer of 5% staged over two years. They closed down swimming pools, theatres and kindergartens in a foretaste of what could become a \"hot spring\" - and autumn when engineering union IG Metall formally submits its own 8% claim.This puts the government on the horns of a dilemma as ministers from both sides of the grand coalition have argued that employees deserve to see their purchasing power increase as the economy continues to grow despite the credit crunch. It might boost consumer spending, finally, as investment- and export-led growth slackens.Cue Jean-Claude Trichet, European Central Bank president and scourge of \"excessive\" wage claims (those \"second-round effects\" of rising inflation he warns against). Merkel's government is the fiercest defender of the ECB's independence in the eurozone. But, if Trichet and his governing council colleagues, surprised us all by raising interest rates, would it still be the bank's cheerleader?", "tags": ["Economics", "Germany", "Tax and spending", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "David Gow: Taxing times for Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-26T14:30:28Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Aufkl\u00e4rung ... hundreds of lamps moulded after a bust of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. Photograph: Jens Meyer/APThe previous leg of our long-running world literature tour took us to Romania, where we explored the vibrant literary health of a country few of us know in any detail, despite being a fellow member of the European Union. Many suggestions came from Bucharest resident vic31, with particular recommendations for Mircea Cartarescu's epic trilogy (Aripa Stinga, Corpul, Aripa Dreapta /The Left Wing, The Body, The Right Wing), reminiscent of Updike, and Filip Florian's magical realist Degete Mici (Little Fingers), which follows the mystery of whether some bones unearthed during an archaeological dig are from an ancient Roman military camp or a 1950s mass grave. Another poster, AIBlyth, drew our attention to his own translation of Little Fingers, to be published in the US by Harcourt, before recommending contemporary novels from Dan Lungu (Hens' Heaven), Stefan Agopian (Tache de Velvet) and Doina Rusti (Zogru).Nilpferd was also on hand with some fascinating suggestions, notably the surrealist writer Urmuz, an important precursor to one of Romania's most famous literary sons, the Romanian-French playwright Eugen Ionescu.Delve further into Romania's rich literary landscape hereMoving closer to home, we now pick up our wayfarer's thread in Germany, cradle of Sturm und Drang, Romantic irony and heartfelt post-war political realism. Germany's literary tradition is, of course, one of the greatest, stretching from Goethe - one of the first genuinely international literary superstars - and Schiller to WG Sebald and Gunter Grass, writers accorded a station in society that few English literary authors would expect. Today, with the country successfully reunified and the post-war heritage entering a new, more optimistic stage, the world of German books is flourishing.Before we open the gates to the flood of suggestions of great and lesser-known German authors and works (no Austrians, mind - we'll save that other great nation of German-language literature for another month), I'll leave you with the words of Novalis, aka Friedrich von Hardenberg, one of the greatest of the Jena romantics, writing of language as\"a wonderful and fertile mystery: that when someone speaks merely in order to speak, one precisely then expresses the most splendid and most original truths.\"Substitute \"speak\" for \"write\", and one might have an honourable motto for the blogging spirit, no?And don't forget to vote on which country you think we should visit next.Read about former stop-offs on our world literature tour here.", "tags": ["Books", "Culture"], "title": "Join the world literature tour to Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-14T12:35:48Z", "country": "germany", "content": "David Montgomery seems to have a talent for antagonising employees - something you wouldn't guess from his somewhat dapper appearance and soft Ulster accent. When he was cutting a swathe through Mirror Group Newspapers in the 1990s, his nickname, famously, was Rommel - \"because Montgomery was on our side\". And now that his newspaper group Mecom has built a significant presence in five European countries in less than three years, he has encountered serious opposition in Germany.Earlier this week I met some representatives from the two largest German papers in the Mecom stable, the Berliner Zeitung and Hamburger Morgenpost. They were dismayed by what has happened to their newspapers since Mecom's takeover. They have learned of a 5m euro cost-cutting programme and in Berlin have watched some 19 journalists walk out of the door.These people have not been replaced - a big deal with editorial staff now standing at 130 - and journalists see this as a redundancy programme by stealth. The fear is that quality will suffer and in the long-term circulation will fall as a result.The other big gripe is the controversial position of Josef Depenbrock, the editor-in-chief of Mecom's German business who was elevated to take on the additional role of managing director last year. Insiders talk of a power struggle between him and the Mecom chief digital officer, Peter Skulimma.When I spoke to Montgomery yesterday, as Mecom reported annual results, he said journalists had to get with the multimedia programme. He wants them to produce journalism across print and online, where the future growth will come from. Montgomery also defended Depenbrock's position, arguing that his journalistic background made him a guarantor of editorial quality.Behind the squabbles at the papers, the deeper problem is that German newspapers have never known an owner like Montgomery. Many media companies are still owned by families: to take arguably the two biggest names, Bertelsmann is fully in the hands of the Mohns and Axel Springer is still majority-owned by the founder's widow Friede Springer. There is also a cultural suspicion of business, as Susanne Lang of die Tageszeitung explained here in January.\"In Germany it's a completely new phenomenon that a paper is owned by shareholders where in theory 100% of shares can be acquired freely in the market,\" one German journalist told me this week.Such companies are answerable to their shareholders and are obliged to seek ever greater returns. They also have to pay off interest on the loans used to buy the companies: profitability becomes the key priority.\"The problem is where the business is financed by loans and you have to pay interest, the burden of the cost of having to pay that interest can only be passed on to the employees,\" says Michael Klehm of the German journalists' union, DJV. \"And they are being constantly pressured to make more profits because they need to find money to fund interest.\"Montgomery's answer is that he is a long-term owner and that he is investing in a multimedia future. He told me yesterday: \"In return we ask people to join in and ask them to contribute - and indeed that's happening to tremendous effect in other countries and to some extent in Germany... Once Germany starts to respond they will probably do it better than anybody else. These are very small and temporary protests: undoubtedly when the Germans all get involved it will be tremendously successful.\"This is more than an Anglo-German culture clash, however. The traditional family ownership of newspapers, which has subjected journalists to the whims of proprietors but also tended to guarantee more investment than the City would countenance, is breaking down.Look at the pressure on Anthony O'Reilly at Independent News & Media, where 20% shareholder Denis O'Brien is agitating for the sale of the loss-making Independent titles. Or at the New York Times company, where the Sulzberger dynasty is under attack from hard-nosed financial investors.Here in the UK, you have to look no further than Monty's old company. Trinity Mirror has consistently cut costs - which often means laying off journalists - and looked to digital revenues to compensate for the long-term decline in print. Owned entirely in the market, Trinity is answerable to shareholders and is obliged to do what's best for them.And to take another example, the demise of the regional press is blamed by many - not least Nick Davies in Flat Earth News - on the corporate ownership into which it has fallen in recent decades.The battle between Monty and the Germans is just part of a much bigger war between those who want to run newspapers for profit and those who would always put editorial quality first.", "tags": ["Mecom", "David Montgomery", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media"], "title": "Montgomery faces a fight in Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-14T00:18:41Z", "country": "germany", "content": "President Nicolas Sarkozy was last night forced to back away from an ambitious scheme to launch a French-led \"Mediterranean Union\" linking the EU's southern states in a political club with the Maghreb, Turkey and Middle Eastern countries including Israel.Sarkozy had planned to launch the bold new union when France took over the presidency of the EU in July, but climbed down after fierce opposition from Angela Merkel, the German chancellor.At an EU summit in Brussels last night, Sarkozy and Merkel jointly proposed a much looser grouping, to be initiated at a summit of EU and Mediterranean countries in Paris in July.Worried that the Sarkozy scheme would split the EU while leaving the wealthier countries of Germany and Scandinavia footing the bill for an exercise in French aggrandisement, Merkel was said to have threatened to boycott the Paris summit unless Sarkozy scaled back his plans.\"She was very firm,\" said EU diplomats. \"They had quite a fight about this.\"German sources described the compromise last night as a facesaving deal for Sarkozy which gutted the scheme of much of its substance. The new organisation would still be called a Mediterranean Union, but bore faint resemblance to the original French blueprint.The collision over Sarkozy's project was the latest in a series of clashes between Europe's two key leaders. Diplomats say the fundamental problem is one of personal chemistry, with Merkel's self-effacing sobriety jarring with Sarkozy's attention-seeking theatricality.The Mediterranean Union was conceived by Sarkozy's adviser Henri Guaino, who hoped it would put France in a dominating position in the Mediterranean while restoring Paris's European leadership credentials. It would have linked the southern countries of the EU with 11 countries in north Africa and the Middle East. Sarkozy called for \"a political, economic, and cultural union of which our children would be proud\" in a speech in Tangiers last year.Britain also opposed the plan, suspecting it was designed to wreck any chance of Turkey joining the EU. Britain is Turkey's biggest supporter in the EU, while Sarkozy is outspokenly opposed to Ankara joining.Merkel warned Sarkozy that his idea would have divided the EU into traditional spheres of influence. Last night's deal was preceded by 10 days of difficult negotiations between Paris and Berlin. The result is that all 27 EU countries will be \"equally\" involved in the \"Club Med\" association and that Sarkozy has scrapped planning for a summit of Mediterranean countries in Paris in July.While backtracking, however, Sarkozy has succeeded in pushing the Mediterranean issue up the EU agenda and establishing new structures and positions to bolster his ideas, diplomats said. There are to be Mediterranean summits every two years, and two co-presidents of the new union.", "tags": ["France", "European Union", "Germany", "World news", "Politics", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Europe"], "title": "Germany pours cold water on Sarkozy union"},{"date": "2008-03-06T14:49:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany risks becoming ungovernable, condemned to a new era of unstable minority rule, fragile coalitions, and lame duck chancellors, a former German head of state warned today.With the \"grand coalition\" of Christian and social democrats (CDU and SPD) under Chancellor Angela Merkel increasingly gridlocked, and unprecedented coalitions being mooted in key German states, Roman Herzog, a former German president and ex-head of the constitutional court, called for changes to the constitution and the electoral system to counter the drift towards government paralysis.\"We are dealing with a fundamental shift in our system of government,\" said Herzog in a lengthy analysis in Munich's S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung. \"It will be increasingly difficult to form and maintain stable absolute majorities. Put plainly, the danger of minority governments will grow.\"Life will be hard for a minority chancellor. Abroad and particularly in Brussels, he will be seen as a 'lame duck' whose days are numbered, with whom there's no point in running longer-term political projects. If you look realistically at modern international politics, you will realise how detrimental that might be for Germany.\"Calling for an overhaul of the rules fixing how Germany forms its governments, Herzog raised the spectre of the Weimar Republic, the ramshackle democracy between the wars which collapsed in chaos and runaway inflation, paving the way for Adolf Hitler.The anxiety over the state of German politics has been triggered by the rise of the Left, a new party of former east German communists and hard-left defectors from the social democrats in western Germany, led by Oskar Lafontaine, the maverick former SPD leader and finance minister.As a result of recent successes at the ballot box, it is now represented in 10 of Germany's 16 federal states or L\u00e4nder, as well as in the national parliament in Berlin, turning the country's politics into a five-party system in which it is increasingly impossible to form majority coalitions between natural partners.In the state of Hessen around Frankfurt, the social democrats are currently breaking the mould by negotiating a minority government with the Greens, which will be maintained by the tacit support of the Left party, despite previous SPD pledges never to work with the Left.And after recent elections in Hamburg, the Christian democrats are exploring the first coalition in the country between the CDU and the Greens, because it is the only viable governing option.The core of the problem is the long-term trend of erosion of support for the two big national parties, the CDU and the SPD, in Germany's proportional representation system. They now struggle to muster 70% support between them, while the fringe parties - the free market liberals of the FDP, the Greens and the Left - each take up to 10%. Neither of the two big parties can rely on a single junior partner to form a majority.For the entire post-war period, German democracy has been a three-party system, morphing into a four-party arrangement with the rise of the Greens in the 1980s. That has now changed.Herzog warned that the entrenchment of the hard left in German politics is likely to be mirrored by the emergence of a stronger extreme right, turning Germany into a six-party system.\"The possibility of a sixth party, which would not need to be neo-fascist, cannot be quite excluded.\"Herzog's intervention, which is certain to trigger a bout of soul-searching and anxiety over the direction of German politics, comes as the Merkel government drifts into immobility amid a wave of strikes and industrial action.The chancellor accuses her SPD coalition partner of wanting to be both government and opposition, since the SPD leader, Kurt Beck, is not in the cabinet, and has shifted the party to the left to try to win back votes from its hard-left rival.Moderate SPD politicians are stunned by the party's move to collaborate with the hard-left renegades in Hessen following repeated election campaign pledges never to do so.Herzog called for a national debate over how to change the constitution and electoral laws to streamline the system. A British-style system of first-past-the-post winners guaranteeing majority governments would \"never\" be tolerated by the Germans, he said, because a majority of parliamentary seats could be secured from a minority of the popular vote.He preferred the French system of run-offs for parliamentary seats because it favoured the big parties while leaving more scope for the small parties to strike bargains.He also called for constitutional changes on how Germany's upper house or federal council (representing the 16 states) operates, since the passing of most financial legislation by the central government could otherwise be stymied.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany becoming ungovernable, says former president"},{"date": "2008-03-05T01:53:29Z", "country": "germany", "content": "European governments yesterday moved to crack down on tax fraud and to press tax havens to supply more information to try to stem the loss of an estimated \u20ac100bn (\u00a377bn) a year across the EU.With Germany leading the charge, EU finance ministers ordered the European commission to bring forward a review of three-year-old legislation that narrows the scope for tax evasion.Peer Steinbr\u00fcck, the German finance minister, read the riot act to ministers from 27 countries in Brussels and won support for his campaign to get tough with tax cheats. The revelation that hundreds of Germans were stashing their money in Liechtenstein, he said, offered \"spectacular cases of tax fraud\" that were not merely a scam but \"a social and moral issue\".Britain supported the German demands, with Yvette Cooper, chief secretary to the Treasury, one of the few officials at the meeting to single out Liechtenstein for opprobrium. \"We need clear pressure on Liechtenstein to provide more information to make sure people are not acting illegally to evade their tax obligations,\" said a Treasury spokesman.But Steinbr\u00fcck extended his criticism to EU countries Austria, Luxembourg and Belgium, whom he criticised for their secrecy and because they were negotiating double taxation agreements with tax havens in the far east that failed to observe the OECD's code on tax transparency.Under the EU's 2005 savings tax directive, states are obliged to supply fellow members with information on their nationals' interest earnings. Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg, however, were exempted from the obligation.", "tags": ["Capital gains tax", "Investments", "Germany", "Money", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany urges crackdown on tax havens"},{"date": "2008-02-20T13:15:13Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Is Germany, Europe's biggest economy, a corporate swamp? As the tax evasion scandal triggered by Deutsche Post chief executive Klaus Zumwinkel grew this week, judges at a court in Braunschweig (Brunswick) prepared to pass more sentences in the long-running Volkswagen sex and bribery affair that has already claimed the scalp of the architect of the country's labour reforms.The tax scandal itself testifies to a stinking rottenness in many boardrooms where executives have pocketed huge salary increases and stock options while plotting with their tax advisers to squirrel their wealth over the border, first to Luxembourg and now, it transpires, to neighbouring Liechtenstein. All the while as they slash their workforces and impose effective wage-cuts.The German tax officers' union estimates that as much as \u20ac30bn (\u00a322.65bn) a year may be withheld from the exchequer. Media reports, based on leaks from the prosecutors and police involved in nationwide raids on offices and homes, point to sums of up to \u20ac4bn. Anything between 700 and 1,000 executives, some of them prominent, risk investigation while scores of them are hastily consulting their advisers and paying off their tax bills rapidly to escape fines or even imprisonment - or singing like canaries to the authorities.It's reported that when executives meet over cocktails it's not their latest round of golf or business coup they discuss but their tax bills and how to cut them. Anybody who declares his or her full income is widely viewed as a fool - unfit to run a business and maximise shareholder returns....As Josef Ackermann, the well-heeled (\u20ac15m a year at least) chief executive of Deutsche Bank, said this week, it would be wrong to visit the malfaisance of some on business as a whole. Or is it? When I discussed the issue with Peter von Blomberg, vice chairman of the German chapter of Transparency International, in mid-2005 when the VW scandal erupted, he told me this was \"just the tip of the iceberg\". Since then even more of the iceberg has emerged.Siemens, the country's biggest group by market cap, is spending millions of euros a week on investigating and clearing up a bribery scandal dating back years that has already cost the heads of several leading executives, including the former chairman and chief executives (though both deny personal involvement). It has cost the engineering group more than \u20ac1.6bn so far, including fines, but the final bill will almost certainly be a large multiple of that. And it has brought in an outsider as CEO, Peter Loescher, an Austrian not tainted by German corporate culture, to clean out the Augean stables - with the aid of an American chief compliance officer, Peter Solmssen.Rate expectationsSo what is to be done to clean up Germany as a whole? In the S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung, Peter Bofinger, one of Angela Merkel's \"five wise men\" or official economic advisers, calls for a new relationship between society and state instead of the current disturbed one. He argues that the state is widely presented and perceived as alien and spendthrift, throwing taxpayers' money away without any noticeable benefit for the citizens.Bofinger, a controversial outsider himself, insists that the tax take in Germany, where the top rate is 45%, is not too high and in fact is well below the EU average. He is a fierce opponent of tax cuts - as promulgated by Merkel's original choice as finance minister, Paul Kirchhof, who has consistently proposed a uniform 25% rate.In the same paper Kirchhof argues in an interview that the problem is the complexity of the tax rules which make them misunderstood and strengthen the feeling that the \"other\" is getting away with paying less. If everyone paid the same rate - and certainly not the 80% demanded by some union leaders - the outcome would be greater clarity and certainty. It's an intriguing argument but one dismissed by government and opposition so far. Their kneejerk reaction so far is simply to think of increasing the penalties for tax evasion. And new EU measures to stamp on European tax havens. Hardly enough to root out criminal self-enrichment on this scale. Pay showdownZumwinkel, named manager of the year in 2006 and a close Merkel adviser until his disgrace, is now out in the cold - even after reportedly paying \u20ac4m in underpaid tax over to the authorities. (Apparently, he declared so little interest on his savings he escaped any tax at all in at least one year). And, now that he's resigned, the Post has stopped paying him at all - and scrapped any golden goodbye.The revelations of his bottomless greed and that of other executives - 17.5% average pay rises in the past year - is grist to the mill of German unions limbering up for a showdown over pay this year after several years of restraint.This week saw more than 50,000 public sector workers down tools in pursuit of an 8% claim lodged by their union, Verdi, and others in response to a government offer of 5% staged over two years. They closed down swimming pools, theatres and kindergartens in a foretaste of what could become a \"hot spring\" - and autumn when engineering union IG Metall formally submits its own 8% claim.This puts the government on the horns of a dilemma as ministers from both sides of the grand coalition have argued that employees deserve to see their purchasing power increase as the economy continues to grow despite the credit crunch. It might boost consumer spending, finally, as investment- and export-led growth slackens.Cue Jean-Claude Trichet, European Central Bank president and scourge of \"excessive\" wage claims (those \"second-round effects\" of rising inflation he warns against). Merkel's government is the fiercest defender of the ECB's independence in the eurozone. But, if Trichet and his governing council colleagues, surprised us all by raising interest rates, would it still be the bank's cheerleader?", "tags": ["Economics", "Germany", "Tax and spending", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "David Gow: Taxing times for Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-26T14:30:28Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Aufkl\u00e4rung ... hundreds of lamps moulded after a bust of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. Photograph: Jens Meyer/APThe previous leg of our long-running world literature tour took us to Romania, where we explored the vibrant literary health of a country few of us know in any detail, despite being a fellow member of the European Union. Many suggestions came from Bucharest resident vic31, with particular recommendations for Mircea Cartarescu's epic trilogy (Aripa Stinga, Corpul, Aripa Dreapta /The Left Wing, The Body, The Right Wing), reminiscent of Updike, and Filip Florian's magical realist Degete Mici (Little Fingers), which follows the mystery of whether some bones unearthed during an archaeological dig are from an ancient Roman military camp or a 1950s mass grave. Another poster, AIBlyth, drew our attention to his own translation of Little Fingers, to be published in the US by Harcourt, before recommending contemporary novels from Dan Lungu (Hens' Heaven), Stefan Agopian (Tache de Velvet) and Doina Rusti (Zogru).Nilpferd was also on hand with some fascinating suggestions, notably the surrealist writer Urmuz, an important precursor to one of Romania's most famous literary sons, the Romanian-French playwright Eugen Ionescu.Delve further into Romania's rich literary landscape hereMoving closer to home, we now pick up our wayfarer's thread in Germany, cradle of Sturm und Drang, Romantic irony and heartfelt post-war political realism. Germany's literary tradition is, of course, one of the greatest, stretching from Goethe - one of the first genuinely international literary superstars - and Schiller to WG Sebald and Gunter Grass, writers accorded a station in society that few English literary authors would expect. Today, with the country successfully reunified and the post-war heritage entering a new, more optimistic stage, the world of German books is flourishing.Before we open the gates to the flood of suggestions of great and lesser-known German authors and works (no Austrians, mind - we'll save that other great nation of German-language literature for another month), I'll leave you with the words of Novalis, aka Friedrich von Hardenberg, one of the greatest of the Jena romantics, writing of language as\"a wonderful and fertile mystery: that when someone speaks merely in order to speak, one precisely then expresses the most splendid and most original truths.\"Substitute \"speak\" for \"write\", and one might have an honourable motto for the blogging spirit, no?And don't forget to vote on which country you think we should visit next.Read about former stop-offs on our world literature tour here.", "tags": ["Books", "Culture"], "title": "Join the world literature tour to Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-14T12:35:48Z", "country": "germany", "content": "David Montgomery seems to have a talent for antagonising employees - something you wouldn't guess from his somewhat dapper appearance and soft Ulster accent. When he was cutting a swathe through Mirror Group Newspapers in the 1990s, his nickname, famously, was Rommel - \"because Montgomery was on our side\". And now that his newspaper group Mecom has built a significant presence in five European countries in less than three years, he has encountered serious opposition in Germany.Earlier this week I met some representatives from the two largest German papers in the Mecom stable, the Berliner Zeitung and Hamburger Morgenpost. They were dismayed by what has happened to their newspapers since Mecom's takeover. They have learned of a 5m euro cost-cutting programme and in Berlin have watched some 19 journalists walk out of the door.These people have not been replaced - a big deal with editorial staff now standing at 130 - and journalists see this as a redundancy programme by stealth. The fear is that quality will suffer and in the long-term circulation will fall as a result.The other big gripe is the controversial position of Josef Depenbrock, the editor-in-chief of Mecom's German business who was elevated to take on the additional role of managing director last year. Insiders talk of a power struggle between him and the Mecom chief digital officer, Peter Skulimma.When I spoke to Montgomery yesterday, as Mecom reported annual results, he said journalists had to get with the multimedia programme. He wants them to produce journalism across print and online, where the future growth will come from. Montgomery also defended Depenbrock's position, arguing that his journalistic background made him a guarantor of editorial quality.Behind the squabbles at the papers, the deeper problem is that German newspapers have never known an owner like Montgomery. Many media companies are still owned by families: to take arguably the two biggest names, Bertelsmann is fully in the hands of the Mohns and Axel Springer is still majority-owned by the founder's widow Friede Springer. There is also a cultural suspicion of business, as Susanne Lang of die Tageszeitung explained here in January.\"In Germany it's a completely new phenomenon that a paper is owned by shareholders where in theory 100% of shares can be acquired freely in the market,\" one German journalist told me this week.Such companies are answerable to their shareholders and are obliged to seek ever greater returns. They also have to pay off interest on the loans used to buy the companies: profitability becomes the key priority.\"The problem is where the business is financed by loans and you have to pay interest, the burden of the cost of having to pay that interest can only be passed on to the employees,\" says Michael Klehm of the German journalists' union, DJV. \"And they are being constantly pressured to make more profits because they need to find money to fund interest.\"Montgomery's answer is that he is a long-term owner and that he is investing in a multimedia future. He told me yesterday: \"In return we ask people to join in and ask them to contribute - and indeed that's happening to tremendous effect in other countries and to some extent in Germany... Once Germany starts to respond they will probably do it better than anybody else. These are very small and temporary protests: undoubtedly when the Germans all get involved it will be tremendously successful.\"This is more than an Anglo-German culture clash, however. The traditional family ownership of newspapers, which has subjected journalists to the whims of proprietors but also tended to guarantee more investment than the City would countenance, is breaking down.Look at the pressure on Anthony O'Reilly at Independent News & Media, where 20% shareholder Denis O'Brien is agitating for the sale of the loss-making Independent titles. Or at the New York Times company, where the Sulzberger dynasty is under attack from hard-nosed financial investors.Here in the UK, you have to look no further than Monty's old company. Trinity Mirror has consistently cut costs - which often means laying off journalists - and looked to digital revenues to compensate for the long-term decline in print. Owned entirely in the market, Trinity is answerable to shareholders and is obliged to do what's best for them.And to take another example, the demise of the regional press is blamed by many - not least Nick Davies in Flat Earth News - on the corporate ownership into which it has fallen in recent decades.The battle between Monty and the Germans is just part of a much bigger war between those who want to run newspapers for profit and those who would always put editorial quality first.", "tags": ["Mecom", "David Montgomery", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media"], "title": "Montgomery faces a fight in Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-14T00:18:41Z", "country": "germany", "content": "President Nicolas Sarkozy was last night forced to back away from an ambitious scheme to launch a French-led \"Mediterranean Union\" linking the EU's southern states in a political club with the Maghreb, Turkey and Middle Eastern countries including Israel.Sarkozy had planned to launch the bold new union when France took over the presidency of the EU in July, but climbed down after fierce opposition from Angela Merkel, the German chancellor.At an EU summit in Brussels last night, Sarkozy and Merkel jointly proposed a much looser grouping, to be initiated at a summit of EU and Mediterranean countries in Paris in July.Worried that the Sarkozy scheme would split the EU while leaving the wealthier countries of Germany and Scandinavia footing the bill for an exercise in French aggrandisement, Merkel was said to have threatened to boycott the Paris summit unless Sarkozy scaled back his plans.\"She was very firm,\" said EU diplomats. \"They had quite a fight about this.\"German sources described the compromise last night as a facesaving deal for Sarkozy which gutted the scheme of much of its substance. The new organisation would still be called a Mediterranean Union, but bore faint resemblance to the original French blueprint.The collision over Sarkozy's project was the latest in a series of clashes between Europe's two key leaders. Diplomats say the fundamental problem is one of personal chemistry, with Merkel's self-effacing sobriety jarring with Sarkozy's attention-seeking theatricality.The Mediterranean Union was conceived by Sarkozy's adviser Henri Guaino, who hoped it would put France in a dominating position in the Mediterranean while restoring Paris's European leadership credentials. It would have linked the southern countries of the EU with 11 countries in north Africa and the Middle East. Sarkozy called for \"a political, economic, and cultural union of which our children would be proud\" in a speech in Tangiers last year.Britain also opposed the plan, suspecting it was designed to wreck any chance of Turkey joining the EU. Britain is Turkey's biggest supporter in the EU, while Sarkozy is outspokenly opposed to Ankara joining.Merkel warned Sarkozy that his idea would have divided the EU into traditional spheres of influence. Last night's deal was preceded by 10 days of difficult negotiations between Paris and Berlin. The result is that all 27 EU countries will be \"equally\" involved in the \"Club Med\" association and that Sarkozy has scrapped planning for a summit of Mediterranean countries in Paris in July.While backtracking, however, Sarkozy has succeeded in pushing the Mediterranean issue up the EU agenda and establishing new structures and positions to bolster his ideas, diplomats said. There are to be Mediterranean summits every two years, and two co-presidents of the new union.", "tags": ["France", "European Union", "Germany", "World news", "Politics", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Europe"], "title": "Germany pours cold water on Sarkozy union"},{"date": "2008-03-06T14:49:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany risks becoming ungovernable, condemned to a new era of unstable minority rule, fragile coalitions, and lame duck chancellors, a former German head of state warned today.With the \"grand coalition\" of Christian and social democrats (CDU and SPD) under Chancellor Angela Merkel increasingly gridlocked, and unprecedented coalitions being mooted in key German states, Roman Herzog, a former German president and ex-head of the constitutional court, called for changes to the constitution and the electoral system to counter the drift towards government paralysis.\"We are dealing with a fundamental shift in our system of government,\" said Herzog in a lengthy analysis in Munich's S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung. \"It will be increasingly difficult to form and maintain stable absolute majorities. Put plainly, the danger of minority governments will grow.\"Life will be hard for a minority chancellor. Abroad and particularly in Brussels, he will be seen as a 'lame duck' whose days are numbered, with whom there's no point in running longer-term political projects. If you look realistically at modern international politics, you will realise how detrimental that might be for Germany.\"Calling for an overhaul of the rules fixing how Germany forms its governments, Herzog raised the spectre of the Weimar Republic, the ramshackle democracy between the wars which collapsed in chaos and runaway inflation, paving the way for Adolf Hitler.The anxiety over the state of German politics has been triggered by the rise of the Left, a new party of former east German communists and hard-left defectors from the social democrats in western Germany, led by Oskar Lafontaine, the maverick former SPD leader and finance minister.As a result of recent successes at the ballot box, it is now represented in 10 of Germany's 16 federal states or L\u00e4nder, as well as in the national parliament in Berlin, turning the country's politics into a five-party system in which it is increasingly impossible to form majority coalitions between natural partners.In the state of Hessen around Frankfurt, the social democrats are currently breaking the mould by negotiating a minority government with the Greens, which will be maintained by the tacit support of the Left party, despite previous SPD pledges never to work with the Left.And after recent elections in Hamburg, the Christian democrats are exploring the first coalition in the country between the CDU and the Greens, because it is the only viable governing option.The core of the problem is the long-term trend of erosion of support for the two big national parties, the CDU and the SPD, in Germany's proportional representation system. They now struggle to muster 70% support between them, while the fringe parties - the free market liberals of the FDP, the Greens and the Left - each take up to 10%. Neither of the two big parties can rely on a single junior partner to form a majority.For the entire post-war period, German democracy has been a three-party system, morphing into a four-party arrangement with the rise of the Greens in the 1980s. That has now changed.Herzog warned that the entrenchment of the hard left in German politics is likely to be mirrored by the emergence of a stronger extreme right, turning Germany into a six-party system.\"The possibility of a sixth party, which would not need to be neo-fascist, cannot be quite excluded.\"Herzog's intervention, which is certain to trigger a bout of soul-searching and anxiety over the direction of German politics, comes as the Merkel government drifts into immobility amid a wave of strikes and industrial action.The chancellor accuses her SPD coalition partner of wanting to be both government and opposition, since the SPD leader, Kurt Beck, is not in the cabinet, and has shifted the party to the left to try to win back votes from its hard-left rival.Moderate SPD politicians are stunned by the party's move to collaborate with the hard-left renegades in Hessen following repeated election campaign pledges never to do so.Herzog called for a national debate over how to change the constitution and electoral laws to streamline the system. A British-style system of first-past-the-post winners guaranteeing majority governments would \"never\" be tolerated by the Germans, he said, because a majority of parliamentary seats could be secured from a minority of the popular vote.He preferred the French system of run-offs for parliamentary seats because it favoured the big parties while leaving more scope for the small parties to strike bargains.He also called for constitutional changes on how Germany's upper house or federal council (representing the 16 states) operates, since the passing of most financial legislation by the central government could otherwise be stymied.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany becoming ungovernable, says former president"},{"date": "2008-03-05T01:53:29Z", "country": "germany", "content": "European governments yesterday moved to crack down on tax fraud and to press tax havens to supply more information to try to stem the loss of an estimated \u20ac100bn (\u00a377bn) a year across the EU.With Germany leading the charge, EU finance ministers ordered the European commission to bring forward a review of three-year-old legislation that narrows the scope for tax evasion.Peer Steinbr\u00fcck, the German finance minister, read the riot act to ministers from 27 countries in Brussels and won support for his campaign to get tough with tax cheats. The revelation that hundreds of Germans were stashing their money in Liechtenstein, he said, offered \"spectacular cases of tax fraud\" that were not merely a scam but \"a social and moral issue\".Britain supported the German demands, with Yvette Cooper, chief secretary to the Treasury, one of the few officials at the meeting to single out Liechtenstein for opprobrium. \"We need clear pressure on Liechtenstein to provide more information to make sure people are not acting illegally to evade their tax obligations,\" said a Treasury spokesman.But Steinbr\u00fcck extended his criticism to EU countries Austria, Luxembourg and Belgium, whom he criticised for their secrecy and because they were negotiating double taxation agreements with tax havens in the far east that failed to observe the OECD's code on tax transparency.Under the EU's 2005 savings tax directive, states are obliged to supply fellow members with information on their nationals' interest earnings. Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg, however, were exempted from the obligation.", "tags": ["Capital gains tax", "Investments", "Germany", "Money", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany urges crackdown on tax havens"},{"date": "2008-03-03T11:46:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Facebook's German-language version launches today, thanks, in no small part, to 2,000 German speakers who translated the entire site in less than two weeks.Anyone accessing the site from a German-speaking country (there are more than you think...) will see the new version from today, and anyone else can change the language preference settings in their profiles.Facebook has around 1 million German-speaking users who collectively decided things like 'anklopfen' would be the best translation of 'poke'. The site represents Facebook's third language version after English and Spanish, and a French version is planned soon.Turkey actually has the fourth biggest userbase after the US, UK and Canada, with Australia, France and Sweden further down the list.If Facebook is hitting the bad side of the hype cycle, expanding into new territories might help to bolster user numbers. Users might get a warm feeling from seeing their own translations on the site, but there isn't quite the same level of ownership as Wikipedia which is, after all, a not-for-profit.", "tags": ["Digital media", "Media", "Society", "Technology"], "title": "Facebook Germany: get 'angeklopft' by your friends"},{"date": "2008-02-20T13:15:13Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Is Germany, Europe's biggest economy, a corporate swamp? As the tax evasion scandal triggered by Deutsche Post chief executive Klaus Zumwinkel grew this week, judges at a court in Braunschweig (Brunswick) prepared to pass more sentences in the long-running Volkswagen sex and bribery affair that has already claimed the scalp of the architect of the country's labour reforms.The tax scandal itself testifies to a stinking rottenness in many boardrooms where executives have pocketed huge salary increases and stock options while plotting with their tax advisers to squirrel their wealth over the border, first to Luxembourg and now, it transpires, to neighbouring Liechtenstein. All the while as they slash their workforces and impose effective wage-cuts.The German tax officers' union estimates that as much as \u20ac30bn (\u00a322.65bn) a year may be withheld from the exchequer. Media reports, based on leaks from the prosecutors and police involved in nationwide raids on offices and homes, point to sums of up to \u20ac4bn. Anything between 700 and 1,000 executives, some of them prominent, risk investigation while scores of them are hastily consulting their advisers and paying off their tax bills rapidly to escape fines or even imprisonment - or singing like canaries to the authorities.It's reported that when executives meet over cocktails it's not their latest round of golf or business coup they discuss but their tax bills and how to cut them. Anybody who declares his or her full income is widely viewed as a fool - unfit to run a business and maximise shareholder returns....As Josef Ackermann, the well-heeled (\u20ac15m a year at least) chief executive of Deutsche Bank, said this week, it would be wrong to visit the malfaisance of some on business as a whole. Or is it? When I discussed the issue with Peter von Blomberg, vice chairman of the German chapter of Transparency International, in mid-2005 when the VW scandal erupted, he told me this was \"just the tip of the iceberg\". Since then even more of the iceberg has emerged.Siemens, the country's biggest group by market cap, is spending millions of euros a week on investigating and clearing up a bribery scandal dating back years that has already cost the heads of several leading executives, including the former chairman and chief executives (though both deny personal involvement). It has cost the engineering group more than \u20ac1.6bn so far, including fines, but the final bill will almost certainly be a large multiple of that. And it has brought in an outsider as CEO, Peter Loescher, an Austrian not tainted by German corporate culture, to clean out the Augean stables - with the aid of an American chief compliance officer, Peter Solmssen.Rate expectationsSo what is to be done to clean up Germany as a whole? In the S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung, Peter Bofinger, one of Angela Merkel's \"five wise men\" or official economic advisers, calls for a new relationship between society and state instead of the current disturbed one. He argues that the state is widely presented and perceived as alien and spendthrift, throwing taxpayers' money away without any noticeable benefit for the citizens.Bofinger, a controversial outsider himself, insists that the tax take in Germany, where the top rate is 45%, is not too high and in fact is well below the EU average. He is a fierce opponent of tax cuts - as promulgated by Merkel's original choice as finance minister, Paul Kirchhof, who has consistently proposed a uniform 25% rate.In the same paper Kirchhof argues in an interview that the problem is the complexity of the tax rules which make them misunderstood and strengthen the feeling that the \"other\" is getting away with paying less. If everyone paid the same rate - and certainly not the 80% demanded by some union leaders - the outcome would be greater clarity and certainty. It's an intriguing argument but one dismissed by government and opposition so far. Their kneejerk reaction so far is simply to think of increasing the penalties for tax evasion. And new EU measures to stamp on European tax havens. Hardly enough to root out criminal self-enrichment on this scale. Pay showdownZumwinkel, named manager of the year in 2006 and a close Merkel adviser until his disgrace, is now out in the cold - even after reportedly paying \u20ac4m in underpaid tax over to the authorities. (Apparently, he declared so little interest on his savings he escaped any tax at all in at least one year). And, now that he's resigned, the Post has stopped paying him at all - and scrapped any golden goodbye.The revelations of his bottomless greed and that of other executives - 17.5% average pay rises in the past year - is grist to the mill of German unions limbering up for a showdown over pay this year after several years of restraint.This week saw more than 50,000 public sector workers down tools in pursuit of an 8% claim lodged by their union, Verdi, and others in response to a government offer of 5% staged over two years. They closed down swimming pools, theatres and kindergartens in a foretaste of what could become a \"hot spring\" - and autumn when engineering union IG Metall formally submits its own 8% claim.This puts the government on the horns of a dilemma as ministers from both sides of the grand coalition have argued that employees deserve to see their purchasing power increase as the economy continues to grow despite the credit crunch. It might boost consumer spending, finally, as investment- and export-led growth slackens.Cue Jean-Claude Trichet, European Central Bank president and scourge of \"excessive\" wage claims (those \"second-round effects\" of rising inflation he warns against). Merkel's government is the fiercest defender of the ECB's independence in the eurozone. But, if Trichet and his governing council colleagues, surprised us all by raising interest rates, would it still be the bank's cheerleader?", "tags": ["Economics", "Germany", "Tax and spending", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "David Gow: Taxing times for Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-26T14:30:28Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Aufkl\u00e4rung ... hundreds of lamps moulded after a bust of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. Photograph: Jens Meyer/APThe previous leg of our long-running world literature tour took us to Romania, where we explored the vibrant literary health of a country few of us know in any detail, despite being a fellow member of the European Union. Many suggestions came from Bucharest resident vic31, with particular recommendations for Mircea Cartarescu's epic trilogy (Aripa Stinga, Corpul, Aripa Dreapta /The Left Wing, The Body, The Right Wing), reminiscent of Updike, and Filip Florian's magical realist Degete Mici (Little Fingers), which follows the mystery of whether some bones unearthed during an archaeological dig are from an ancient Roman military camp or a 1950s mass grave. Another poster, AIBlyth, drew our attention to his own translation of Little Fingers, to be published in the US by Harcourt, before recommending contemporary novels from Dan Lungu (Hens' Heaven), Stefan Agopian (Tache de Velvet) and Doina Rusti (Zogru).Nilpferd was also on hand with some fascinating suggestions, notably the surrealist writer Urmuz, an important precursor to one of Romania's most famous literary sons, the Romanian-French playwright Eugen Ionescu.Delve further into Romania's rich literary landscape hereMoving closer to home, we now pick up our wayfarer's thread in Germany, cradle of Sturm und Drang, Romantic irony and heartfelt post-war political realism. Germany's literary tradition is, of course, one of the greatest, stretching from Goethe - one of the first genuinely international literary superstars - and Schiller to WG Sebald and Gunter Grass, writers accorded a station in society that few English literary authors would expect. Today, with the country successfully reunified and the post-war heritage entering a new, more optimistic stage, the world of German books is flourishing.Before we open the gates to the flood of suggestions of great and lesser-known German authors and works (no Austrians, mind - we'll save that other great nation of German-language literature for another month), I'll leave you with the words of Novalis, aka Friedrich von Hardenberg, one of the greatest of the Jena romantics, writing of language as\"a wonderful and fertile mystery: that when someone speaks merely in order to speak, one precisely then expresses the most splendid and most original truths.\"Substitute \"speak\" for \"write\", and one might have an honourable motto for the blogging spirit, no?And don't forget to vote on which country you think we should visit next.Read about former stop-offs on our world literature tour here.", "tags": ["Books", "Culture"], "title": "Join the world literature tour to Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-14T12:35:48Z", "country": "germany", "content": "David Montgomery seems to have a talent for antagonising employees - something you wouldn't guess from his somewhat dapper appearance and soft Ulster accent. When he was cutting a swathe through Mirror Group Newspapers in the 1990s, his nickname, famously, was Rommel - \"because Montgomery was on our side\". And now that his newspaper group Mecom has built a significant presence in five European countries in less than three years, he has encountered serious opposition in Germany.Earlier this week I met some representatives from the two largest German papers in the Mecom stable, the Berliner Zeitung and Hamburger Morgenpost. They were dismayed by what has happened to their newspapers since Mecom's takeover. They have learned of a 5m euro cost-cutting programme and in Berlin have watched some 19 journalists walk out of the door.These people have not been replaced - a big deal with editorial staff now standing at 130 - and journalists see this as a redundancy programme by stealth. The fear is that quality will suffer and in the long-term circulation will fall as a result.The other big gripe is the controversial position of Josef Depenbrock, the editor-in-chief of Mecom's German business who was elevated to take on the additional role of managing director last year. Insiders talk of a power struggle between him and the Mecom chief digital officer, Peter Skulimma.When I spoke to Montgomery yesterday, as Mecom reported annual results, he said journalists had to get with the multimedia programme. He wants them to produce journalism across print and online, where the future growth will come from. Montgomery also defended Depenbrock's position, arguing that his journalistic background made him a guarantor of editorial quality.Behind the squabbles at the papers, the deeper problem is that German newspapers have never known an owner like Montgomery. Many media companies are still owned by families: to take arguably the two biggest names, Bertelsmann is fully in the hands of the Mohns and Axel Springer is still majority-owned by the founder's widow Friede Springer. There is also a cultural suspicion of business, as Susanne Lang of die Tageszeitung explained here in January.\"In Germany it's a completely new phenomenon that a paper is owned by shareholders where in theory 100% of shares can be acquired freely in the market,\" one German journalist told me this week.Such companies are answerable to their shareholders and are obliged to seek ever greater returns. They also have to pay off interest on the loans used to buy the companies: profitability becomes the key priority.\"The problem is where the business is financed by loans and you have to pay interest, the burden of the cost of having to pay that interest can only be passed on to the employees,\" says Michael Klehm of the German journalists' union, DJV. \"And they are being constantly pressured to make more profits because they need to find money to fund interest.\"Montgomery's answer is that he is a long-term owner and that he is investing in a multimedia future. He told me yesterday: \"In return we ask people to join in and ask them to contribute - and indeed that's happening to tremendous effect in other countries and to some extent in Germany... Once Germany starts to respond they will probably do it better than anybody else. These are very small and temporary protests: undoubtedly when the Germans all get involved it will be tremendously successful.\"This is more than an Anglo-German culture clash, however. The traditional family ownership of newspapers, which has subjected journalists to the whims of proprietors but also tended to guarantee more investment than the City would countenance, is breaking down.Look at the pressure on Anthony O'Reilly at Independent News & Media, where 20% shareholder Denis O'Brien is agitating for the sale of the loss-making Independent titles. Or at the New York Times company, where the Sulzberger dynasty is under attack from hard-nosed financial investors.Here in the UK, you have to look no further than Monty's old company. Trinity Mirror has consistently cut costs - which often means laying off journalists - and looked to digital revenues to compensate for the long-term decline in print. Owned entirely in the market, Trinity is answerable to shareholders and is obliged to do what's best for them.And to take another example, the demise of the regional press is blamed by many - not least Nick Davies in Flat Earth News - on the corporate ownership into which it has fallen in recent decades.The battle between Monty and the Germans is just part of a much bigger war between those who want to run newspapers for profit and those who would always put editorial quality first.", "tags": ["Mecom", "David Montgomery", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media"], "title": "Montgomery faces a fight in Germany"},{"date": "2008-03-14T00:18:41Z", "country": "germany", "content": "President Nicolas Sarkozy was last night forced to back away from an ambitious scheme to launch a French-led \"Mediterranean Union\" linking the EU's southern states in a political club with the Maghreb, Turkey and Middle Eastern countries including Israel.Sarkozy had planned to launch the bold new union when France took over the presidency of the EU in July, but climbed down after fierce opposition from Angela Merkel, the German chancellor.At an EU summit in Brussels last night, Sarkozy and Merkel jointly proposed a much looser grouping, to be initiated at a summit of EU and Mediterranean countries in Paris in July.Worried that the Sarkozy scheme would split the EU while leaving the wealthier countries of Germany and Scandinavia footing the bill for an exercise in French aggrandisement, Merkel was said to have threatened to boycott the Paris summit unless Sarkozy scaled back his plans.\"She was very firm,\" said EU diplomats. \"They had quite a fight about this.\"German sources described the compromise last night as a facesaving deal for Sarkozy which gutted the scheme of much of its substance. The new organisation would still be called a Mediterranean Union, but bore faint resemblance to the original French blueprint.The collision over Sarkozy's project was the latest in a series of clashes between Europe's two key leaders. Diplomats say the fundamental problem is one of personal chemistry, with Merkel's self-effacing sobriety jarring with Sarkozy's attention-seeking theatricality.The Mediterranean Union was conceived by Sarkozy's adviser Henri Guaino, who hoped it would put France in a dominating position in the Mediterranean while restoring Paris's European leadership credentials. It would have linked the southern countries of the EU with 11 countries in north Africa and the Middle East. Sarkozy called for \"a political, economic, and cultural union of which our children would be proud\" in a speech in Tangiers last year.Britain also opposed the plan, suspecting it was designed to wreck any chance of Turkey joining the EU. Britain is Turkey's biggest supporter in the EU, while Sarkozy is outspokenly opposed to Ankara joining.Merkel warned Sarkozy that his idea would have divided the EU into traditional spheres of influence. Last night's deal was preceded by 10 days of difficult negotiations between Paris and Berlin. The result is that all 27 EU countries will be \"equally\" involved in the \"Club Med\" association and that Sarkozy has scrapped planning for a summit of Mediterranean countries in Paris in July.While backtracking, however, Sarkozy has succeeded in pushing the Mediterranean issue up the EU agenda and establishing new structures and positions to bolster his ideas, diplomats said. There are to be Mediterranean summits every two years, and two co-presidents of the new union.", "tags": ["France", "European Union", "Germany", "World news", "Politics", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Europe"], "title": "Germany pours cold water on Sarkozy union"},{"date": "2008-03-06T14:49:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany risks becoming ungovernable, condemned to a new era of unstable minority rule, fragile coalitions, and lame duck chancellors, a former German head of state warned today.With the \"grand coalition\" of Christian and social democrats (CDU and SPD) under Chancellor Angela Merkel increasingly gridlocked, and unprecedented coalitions being mooted in key German states, Roman Herzog, a former German president and ex-head of the constitutional court, called for changes to the constitution and the electoral system to counter the drift towards government paralysis.\"We are dealing with a fundamental shift in our system of government,\" said Herzog in a lengthy analysis in Munich's S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung. \"It will be increasingly difficult to form and maintain stable absolute majorities. Put plainly, the danger of minority governments will grow.\"Life will be hard for a minority chancellor. Abroad and particularly in Brussels, he will be seen as a 'lame duck' whose days are numbered, with whom there's no point in running longer-term political projects. If you look realistically at modern international politics, you will realise how detrimental that might be for Germany.\"Calling for an overhaul of the rules fixing how Germany forms its governments, Herzog raised the spectre of the Weimar Republic, the ramshackle democracy between the wars which collapsed in chaos and runaway inflation, paving the way for Adolf Hitler.The anxiety over the state of German politics has been triggered by the rise of the Left, a new party of former east German communists and hard-left defectors from the social democrats in western Germany, led by Oskar Lafontaine, the maverick former SPD leader and finance minister.As a result of recent successes at the ballot box, it is now represented in 10 of Germany's 16 federal states or L\u00e4nder, as well as in the national parliament in Berlin, turning the country's politics into a five-party system in which it is increasingly impossible to form majority coalitions between natural partners.In the state of Hessen around Frankfurt, the social democrats are currently breaking the mould by negotiating a minority government with the Greens, which will be maintained by the tacit support of the Left party, despite previous SPD pledges never to work with the Left.And after recent elections in Hamburg, the Christian democrats are exploring the first coalition in the country between the CDU and the Greens, because it is the only viable governing option.The core of the problem is the long-term trend of erosion of support for the two big national parties, the CDU and the SPD, in Germany's proportional representation system. They now struggle to muster 70% support between them, while the fringe parties - the free market liberals of the FDP, the Greens and the Left - each take up to 10%. Neither of the two big parties can rely on a single junior partner to form a majority.For the entire post-war period, German democracy has been a three-party system, morphing into a four-party arrangement with the rise of the Greens in the 1980s. That has now changed.Herzog warned that the entrenchment of the hard left in German politics is likely to be mirrored by the emergence of a stronger extreme right, turning Germany into a six-party system.\"The possibility of a sixth party, which would not need to be neo-fascist, cannot be quite excluded.\"Herzog's intervention, which is certain to trigger a bout of soul-searching and anxiety over the direction of German politics, comes as the Merkel government drifts into immobility amid a wave of strikes and industrial action.The chancellor accuses her SPD coalition partner of wanting to be both government and opposition, since the SPD leader, Kurt Beck, is not in the cabinet, and has shifted the party to the left to try to win back votes from its hard-left rival.Moderate SPD politicians are stunned by the party's move to collaborate with the hard-left renegades in Hessen following repeated election campaign pledges never to do so.Herzog called for a national debate over how to change the constitution and electoral laws to streamline the system. A British-style system of first-past-the-post winners guaranteeing majority governments would \"never\" be tolerated by the Germans, he said, because a majority of parliamentary seats could be secured from a minority of the popular vote.He preferred the French system of run-offs for parliamentary seats because it favoured the big parties while leaving more scope for the small parties to strike bargains.He also called for constitutional changes on how Germany's upper house or federal council (representing the 16 states) operates, since the passing of most financial legislation by the central government could otherwise be stymied.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany becoming ungovernable, says former president"},{"date": "2008-03-05T01:53:29Z", "country": "germany", "content": "European governments yesterday moved to crack down on tax fraud and to press tax havens to supply more information to try to stem the loss of an estimated \u20ac100bn (\u00a377bn) a year across the EU.With Germany leading the charge, EU finance ministers ordered the European commission to bring forward a review of three-year-old legislation that narrows the scope for tax evasion.Peer Steinbr\u00fcck, the German finance minister, read the riot act to ministers from 27 countries in Brussels and won support for his campaign to get tough with tax cheats. The revelation that hundreds of Germans were stashing their money in Liechtenstein, he said, offered \"spectacular cases of tax fraud\" that were not merely a scam but \"a social and moral issue\".Britain supported the German demands, with Yvette Cooper, chief secretary to the Treasury, one of the few officials at the meeting to single out Liechtenstein for opprobrium. \"We need clear pressure on Liechtenstein to provide more information to make sure people are not acting illegally to evade their tax obligations,\" said a Treasury spokesman.But Steinbr\u00fcck extended his criticism to EU countries Austria, Luxembourg and Belgium, whom he criticised for their secrecy and because they were negotiating double taxation agreements with tax havens in the far east that failed to observe the OECD's code on tax transparency.Under the EU's 2005 savings tax directive, states are obliged to supply fellow members with information on their nationals' interest earnings. Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg, however, were exempted from the obligation.", "tags": ["Capital gains tax", "Investments", "Germany", "Money", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany urges crackdown on tax havens"},{"date": "2008-03-03T11:46:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Facebook's German-language version launches today, thanks, in no small part, to 2,000 German speakers who translated the entire site in less than two weeks.Anyone accessing the site from a German-speaking country (there are more than you think...) will see the new version from today, and anyone else can change the language preference settings in their profiles.Facebook has around 1 million German-speaking users who collectively decided things like 'anklopfen' would be the best translation of 'poke'. The site represents Facebook's third language version after English and Spanish, and a French version is planned soon.Turkey actually has the fourth biggest userbase after the US, UK and Canada, with Australia, France and Sweden further down the list.If Facebook is hitting the bad side of the hype cycle, expanding into new territories might help to bolster user numbers. Users might get a warm feeling from seeing their own translations on the site, but there isn't quite the same level of ownership as Wikipedia which is, after all, a not-for-profit.", "tags": ["Digital media", "Media", "Society", "Technology"], "title": "Facebook Germany: get 'angeklopft' by your friends"},{"date": "2008-02-24T00:03:18Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The wealthy have got away with financial crimes for so long they no longer regard them as crimes. When they are caught breaking the rules others must obey, they denounce the timid attempts by governments to enforce common standards as a shocking assault on a natural order in which tax is optional for those with the money to buy exemptions.In Britain, we have seen the City in open revolt against the notion that foreign billionaires should pay a little more towards the costs of the country that protects them. Meanwhile in Germany, the decision by tax fraud investigators to... er... investigate tax fraud has turned the letters page of the Financial Times into a wailing wall for funny money men the world over.Perhaps they are right to be alarmed. Maybe for the first time in a generation, governments are seeing the irresponsibility of the rich as a threat as dangerous to a nation's well-being as terrorism or drug trafficking and treating it accordingly. The German authorities are being admirably firm. In a sharp break from the indulgent treatment of the world's elite, Germany is paying informants, receiving stolen documents and conducting mass raids with all the vigour it would deploy against an Islamist terror cell.The German Tax Union thinks Germany loses about \u20ac30bn (\u00a322.5bn) a year in unpaid taxes. Much disappears into the statelet of Liechtenstein, which travel writers portray as Ruritanian idyll. True, there are charming gothic castles and it is governed by the superficially quaint Prince Hans-Adam II or, to give him his full title, His Serene Highness Johannes Adam Ferdinand Alois Josef Maria Marko d'Aviano Pius von und zu Liechtenstein, Sovereign Prince of Liechtenstein, Count of Rietberg and Duke of Troppau and J\u00e4gerndorf.But Johannes Adam etc also owns the $100bn Liechtenstein Global Trust (LGT), which offers 'wealth management' to individuals and companies with the promise of absolute confidentiality.The secrecy held until earlier this month when Der Spiegel reported that an anonymous man known as 'the informant' had proposed a deal to the German secret service, the BND. In return for \u20ac4.2m, he would hand over a stolen DVD listing details of hundreds of rich Germans who had set up accounts in his Serene Highness's bank. The spies passed samples of the informant's secrets to tax investigators, who realised that they had stumbled across a gold mine.Germany's biggest fraud scandal in living memory is now breaking as a result. A leading German industrialist has already resigned. Tax inspectors have warrants to go through the finances of 900 people and all hell has broken loose in the world of the wealthy.His Serene Highness and representatives of the tax industry have accused Germany of dealing in stolen goods. 'To advocate bribing bank officials in a foreign country, causing them to commit a criminal offence in their own jurisdiction, is somewhat astonishing,' wrote an investment banker to the Financial Times. The BND 'are authorised to act thus in cases of terrorism, money-laundering, organised crime and nuclear proliferation,' added a lawyer from the tax haven of Gibraltar. But they 'do not have the authority to act in cases of tax evasion with no link to the proceeds of crime'.All missed the point that tax havens are inherently criminal and would go under without the proceeds of crime. As John Christensen, director of the Tax Justice Network, puts it, they are enemy states, pirate islands that have declared economic war on the rest of the world. It's not just that they happen to be used by individual criminals - drug dealers, kleptomaniac African dictators - they are criminal entities themselves that survive by sucking potential revenues out of wealthy and destitute countries alike. If rich citizens obeyed the law, or tax havens ended their secrecy, offshore banking wouldn't exist.Peer Steinbrueck, Germany's finance minister, said last week that the 'elite must respect the law' and threatened 'to tighten the thumbscrews on Liechtenstein'. I cannot imagine Gordon Brown or David Cameron talking in the same way about Jersey and the Isle of Man. The idea that David Miliband would authorise MI6 to find informers in offshore banking systems feels equally far-fetched. Britain is a country where councils can bug the phones of fly-tippers and put spy cameras in litter bins, but tax inspectors cannot bug the offices of fraudsters or send spies into Jersey.After the furious reaction from the City to the government's modest proposals to tax foreign residents and open up offshore accounts, which was, incidentally, the most sustained campaign of organised hypocrisy you are likely to see in your lifetime, the status quo has been reasserted. The received wisdom remains that you can only ask the rich to make a minimum contribution. To do more would drive them abroad. Labour is chastened. After originally proposing the taxing of non-doms, the Tories are back under the control of tax exiles.Yet the received wisdom cannot last. In democratic countries worldwide, governments are asking the working and middle classes to pay the taxes the rich are avoiding. The status quo isn't merely unjust, but politically unsustainable and more politicians are realising it.As soon as the Liechtenstein scandal broke, American Democratic senator Carl Levin announced an investigation into American plutocrats hiding money in his supreme highness's bank.Last year Levin introduced the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act to Congress, which included necessarily draconian measures to stop the rich robbing the rest of society. 'We cannot tolerate tax cheats offloading their unpaid taxes on to the backs of honest tax payers,' he declared.As with Britain, it is easy to think that his stirring words were so much wind and that nothing will change in an America in which the rich have enjoyed a second gilded age under the Bushes and Clintons.Still, it is worth noting that a then relatively obscure senator from Illinois co-sponsored Levin's Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act and said that 'we need to crack down on individuals and businesses that abuse our laws, so that those who work hard and play by the rules aren't disadvantaged'. His name was Barack Obama.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Global economy", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Nick Cohen: At least Germany stamps on tax havens"},{"date": "2008-05-22T08:29:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Lower Rhine Music Festival, Dusseldorf, Tuesday.\"Ever since the far-off times of the great madrigal composers, England has played but a modest part in the concert of the great musical powers.\"For the products of the musical mind, she has depended almost entirely on importation, she has exported nothing but works of a lighter order.\"Such are the words with which the German author of the \"Gerontius\" programme, specially written for this Festival, introduces his subject.Rightly or wrongly, Germany and the Continent of Europe in general did not feel that serious English music was a thing to be taken seriously, and to that fact the writer (of the programme notes) refers with ingenious delicacy, going on to say that about the turn of the century a change began to be noticeable.Everyone concerned with musical affairs knows how that change was brought about, though not everyone on our side of the Channel cares to admit what he knows. It is in the main to Edward Elgar - a man who has done his best work living quietly in the Malvern Hills, remote from commercial distraction and the strife of commercialism - that the change is due.It is not accidental that on the present occasion the names of Handel, Mendelssohn, Schumann are absent, while Bach is very abundantly represented, Beethoven's name figures in connection with the most modern in feeling of all his works (the C minor Symphony) and Liszt's with his revolutionary Faust Symphony. Nor is it accidental that the preference is given to Strauss among German and Elgar among English composers. The performance of yesterday was remarkable for grandeur and dignity, and for the splendid manner in which the vast and complex web of tone was spread out by the mighty orchestra and choir.On looking back at the extraordinary eloquence and beauty of the musical symbolism in the prelude and death agony of Gerontius, one [now] perceives that the quietus which comes to the spirit in the scene following Gerontius's death is merely a climax in a process that really begins with the first note.", "tags": ["Music", "Germany", "Classical music", "Culture", "Europe", "Edward Elgar"], "title": "Gerontius goes to Germany"},{"date": "2008-05-22T08:29:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Lower Rhine Music Festival, Dusseldorf, Tuesday.\"Ever since the far-off times of the great madrigal composers, England has played but a modest part in the concert of the great musical powers.\"For the products of the musical mind, she has depended almost entirely on importation, she has exported nothing but works of a lighter order.\"Such are the words with which the German author of the \"Gerontius\" programme, specially written for this Festival, introduces his subject.Rightly or wrongly, Germany and the Continent of Europe in general did not feel that serious English music was a thing to be taken seriously, and to that fact the writer (of the programme notes) refers with ingenious delicacy, going on to say that about the turn of the century a change began to be noticeable.Everyone concerned with musical affairs knows how that change was brought about, though not everyone on our side of the Channel cares to admit what he knows. It is in the main to Edward Elgar - a man who has done his best work living quietly in the Malvern Hills, remote from commercial distraction and the strife of commercialism - that the change is due.It is not accidental that on the present occasion the names of Handel, Mendelssohn, Schumann are absent, while Bach is very abundantly represented, Beethoven's name figures in connection with the most modern in feeling of all his works (the C minor Symphony) and Liszt's with his revolutionary Faust Symphony. Nor is it accidental that the preference is given to Strauss among German and Elgar among English composers. The performance of yesterday was remarkable for grandeur and dignity, and for the splendid manner in which the vast and complex web of tone was spread out by the mighty orchestra and choir.On looking back at the extraordinary eloquence and beauty of the musical symbolism in the prelude and death agony of Gerontius, one [now] perceives that the quietus which comes to the spirit in the scene following Gerontius's death is merely a climax in a process that really begins with the first note.", "tags": ["Music", "Germany", "Classical music", "Culture", "Europe", "Edward Elgar"], "title": "Gerontius goes to Germany"},{"date": "2008-06-11T09:49:19Z", "country": "germany", "content": "One evening in early June a friend and I sat on the terrace of his family's holiday home on a hillside above a small village in the Odenwald, an area of rolling, wooded countryside that stretches from east of the Rhine in southern Hesse all the way to Bavaria. It had been 25C for almost a week and our children had spent the afternoon in an outdoor swimming pool filled with fresh spring water, while the grown-ups sprawled in the grass eating ice-cream flavoured with woodruff and big slices of baked cheesecake. It was evening and we sat drinking a hefty, dark doppelbock from a local brewery, the splendidly named, Schmucker. \"Do you think,\" my friend said, \"other English people would like it if they came here?\"I took a sip of my beer and examined the view. On the other side of the narrow valley a herd of caramel-coloured cattle moved lethargically across a flower-speckled meadow towards their byre in a small half-timbered farmstead to which the kids went each morning to buy unpasteurised milk from a little old lady in a pinny. The only sound was the breeze in the scotch pines behind the house, the calling of a cuckoo and the rustling of some dormice that had taken up residence in the eaves. The Odenwald is the site of the Nibelungen Saga. Two miles from where we were sitting Siegfried clubbed the dragon Regin to death and bathed in his blood, but the benign and placid scene in front of me called to mind Heidi rather than Kriemhild. \"Of course,\" I told my friend, \"Who wouldn't like it? The problem is to get them to come here\".Aside from Munich and Berlin, English people show a marked reluctance to visit Germany. The German Tourist Board in London works tirelessly, their French counterparts, meanwhile, simply crook a finger, the Italians merely wink. Suggest a travel book about the country to a publisher and he or she will suck air and recall the time they did one a decade ago and the huge, unsold piles that still remain. It wasn't always like this. At one time the Black Forest and Rhine cruises were immensely popular with British tourists. But just as our national taste in wine has shifted over the years until the once apparently unstoppably popular Liebfraumilch has more or less disappeared from our tables altogether, so Germany has gradually slipped off the holiday map.It is a pity, because Germany has much to offer and, since the arrival of the euro, appears somewhat cheaper to visit than its neighbours too. If Germany has an equivalent to La France Profonde (Deutschland Gemutlich?) then the Odenwald is surely it. Aside from a couple of small, well-preserved medieval towns, Michelstadt and Erbach, the main attraction is the gentle, hilly countryside, a place of high meadows and deep woods, where flocks of goats wander beneath the snowy blossom of apple and pear trees. We spent our week walking on the gravel paths that lead over the hills - the highest is about a thousand feet \u2013 watching out for wild boar, red deer and pine martens. On one we climbed up a wooden tower and, looking south-eastwards, could see the outlines of Castle Frankenstein. We never took food with us, because as Jerome K Jerome observed in his typically genial celebration of a holiday in the Black Forest \"Three Men On The Bummel\" Germany is so well-ordered a place that no sooner has the hiker thought \"Mmm, I could do with a drink and possibly a slice of cake,\" than he turns a corner and finds himself confronted by a rustic inn presided over by a convivial man in an apron who has pledged his life to that exact purpose. The Odenwald is the only place in Germany where the local drink of choice is cider (Appelwoi). It's a dry, flat variety that is served ice cold in stoneware jugs called Bembels. Before we sampled it our friends cautioned us about its earthy qualities and assured us that, \"It tastes better after the third glass\". My partner is from Herefordshire, however, and as she remarked afterwards \"If they think that stuff was rough we'll have to take them to Ross-on-Wye sometime\". Appelwoi is traditionally accompanied by Kochkasse, a semi-soft white cheese that my friend's son memorably described as \"looking like a big plate of flab\". The cheese is sprinkled with cumin seeds and eaten on sourdough bread with a big dollop of sliced pickled onions. The selection of cakes, amongst which the mighty Frankfurt Kranz (the family-sized version contains 16 eggs) is the stand out, may have more appeal to the less adventurous traveller, or those planning to kiss anybody in the next fortnight.In the evenings, tired from the day's exertions, we sit outside and watch the sun go down drinking beer and raspberry eau de vie from the distillery in nearby Furth, listening to the woodpeckers and the first hooting of the owls. At midnight the streetlights in the village go out automatically plunging the valley into velvety darkness. \"You, though,\" my friend says, \"could try and persuade people\". I tell him that I will do my best.If you're driving,  P&O offers Hull to Zeebrugge for a car with two adults and a child plus four-berth cabin from \u00a3400. Zebrugge is roughly 300 miles from the Odenwald. For rail itineraries, see The Man in Seat Sixty-One. Frankfurt is the nearest airport. Ryanair flies to Frankfurt (Hahn) from London from \u00a350. Angushof am Lind'lbrunnen, Mossautal-H\u00fcttenthal (+49 (0)6062 1494,  angushof-lindlbrunnen.de) is a farm located eight miles from Michelstadt in the nature park Bergstrasse-Odenwald where up to 25 people can sleep in a barn on beds of hay from \u20ac59pp per night. People suffering from hay fever can use a tipi. Alternatively, Hotel Michelst\u00e4dter Hof (+49 (0)6061 671, michelstaedter-hof.de) is 5km from Erbach and Michelstedt, in the immediate vicinity of the forest. Doubles from \u20ac44.", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks", "Rest and relaxation"], "title": "Harry Pearson on why he loves Odenwald in Germany"},{"date": "2008-05-22T08:29:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Lower Rhine Music Festival, Dusseldorf, Tuesday.\"Ever since the far-off times of the great madrigal composers, England has played but a modest part in the concert of the great musical powers.\"For the products of the musical mind, she has depended almost entirely on importation, she has exported nothing but works of a lighter order.\"Such are the words with which the German author of the \"Gerontius\" programme, specially written for this Festival, introduces his subject.Rightly or wrongly, Germany and the Continent of Europe in general did not feel that serious English music was a thing to be taken seriously, and to that fact the writer (of the programme notes) refers with ingenious delicacy, going on to say that about the turn of the century a change began to be noticeable.Everyone concerned with musical affairs knows how that change was brought about, though not everyone on our side of the Channel cares to admit what he knows. It is in the main to Edward Elgar - a man who has done his best work living quietly in the Malvern Hills, remote from commercial distraction and the strife of commercialism - that the change is due.It is not accidental that on the present occasion the names of Handel, Mendelssohn, Schumann are absent, while Bach is very abundantly represented, Beethoven's name figures in connection with the most modern in feeling of all his works (the C minor Symphony) and Liszt's with his revolutionary Faust Symphony. Nor is it accidental that the preference is given to Strauss among German and Elgar among English composers. The performance of yesterday was remarkable for grandeur and dignity, and for the splendid manner in which the vast and complex web of tone was spread out by the mighty orchestra and choir.On looking back at the extraordinary eloquence and beauty of the musical symbolism in the prelude and death agony of Gerontius, one [now] perceives that the quietus which comes to the spirit in the scene following Gerontius's death is merely a climax in a process that really begins with the first note.", "tags": ["Music", "Germany", "Classical music", "Culture", "Europe", "Edward Elgar"], "title": "Gerontius goes to Germany"},{"date": "2008-06-11T09:49:19Z", "country": "germany", "content": "One evening in early June a friend and I sat on the terrace of his family's holiday home on a hillside above a small village in the Odenwald, an area of rolling, wooded countryside that stretches from east of the Rhine in southern Hesse all the way to Bavaria. It had been 25C for almost a week and our children had spent the afternoon in an outdoor swimming pool filled with fresh spring water, while the grown-ups sprawled in the grass eating ice-cream flavoured with woodruff and big slices of baked cheesecake. It was evening and we sat drinking a hefty, dark doppelbock from a local brewery, the splendidly named, Schmucker. \"Do you think,\" my friend said, \"other English people would like it if they came here?\"I took a sip of my beer and examined the view. On the other side of the narrow valley a herd of caramel-coloured cattle moved lethargically across a flower-speckled meadow towards their byre in a small half-timbered farmstead to which the kids went each morning to buy unpasteurised milk from a little old lady in a pinny. The only sound was the breeze in the scotch pines behind the house, the calling of a cuckoo and the rustling of some dormice that had taken up residence in the eaves. The Odenwald is the site of the Nibelungen Saga. Two miles from where we were sitting Siegfried clubbed the dragon Regin to death and bathed in his blood, but the benign and placid scene in front of me called to mind Heidi rather than Kriemhild. \"Of course,\" I told my friend, \"Who wouldn't like it? The problem is to get them to come here\".Aside from Munich and Berlin, English people show a marked reluctance to visit Germany. The German Tourist Board in London works tirelessly, their French counterparts, meanwhile, simply crook a finger, the Italians merely wink. Suggest a travel book about the country to a publisher and he or she will suck air and recall the time they did one a decade ago and the huge, unsold piles that still remain. It wasn't always like this. At one time the Black Forest and Rhine cruises were immensely popular with British tourists. But just as our national taste in wine has shifted over the years until the once apparently unstoppably popular Liebfraumilch has more or less disappeared from our tables altogether, so Germany has gradually slipped off the holiday map.It is a pity, because Germany has much to offer and, since the arrival of the euro, appears somewhat cheaper to visit than its neighbours too. If Germany has an equivalent to La France Profonde (Deutschland Gemutlich?) then the Odenwald is surely it. Aside from a couple of small, well-preserved medieval towns, Michelstadt and Erbach, the main attraction is the gentle, hilly countryside, a place of high meadows and deep woods, where flocks of goats wander beneath the snowy blossom of apple and pear trees. We spent our week walking on the gravel paths that lead over the hills - the highest is about a thousand feet \u2013 watching out for wild boar, red deer and pine martens. On one we climbed up a wooden tower and, looking south-eastwards, could see the outlines of Castle Frankenstein. We never took food with us, because as Jerome K Jerome observed in his typically genial celebration of a holiday in the Black Forest \"Three Men On The Bummel\" Germany is so well-ordered a place that no sooner has the hiker thought \"Mmm, I could do with a drink and possibly a slice of cake,\" than he turns a corner and finds himself confronted by a rustic inn presided over by a convivial man in an apron who has pledged his life to that exact purpose. The Odenwald is the only place in Germany where the local drink of choice is cider (Appelwoi). It's a dry, flat variety that is served ice cold in stoneware jugs called Bembels. Before we sampled it our friends cautioned us about its earthy qualities and assured us that, \"It tastes better after the third glass\". My partner is from Herefordshire, however, and as she remarked afterwards \"If they think that stuff was rough we'll have to take them to Ross-on-Wye sometime\". Appelwoi is traditionally accompanied by Kochkasse, a semi-soft white cheese that my friend's son memorably described as \"looking like a big plate of flab\". The cheese is sprinkled with cumin seeds and eaten on sourdough bread with a big dollop of sliced pickled onions. The selection of cakes, amongst which the mighty Frankfurt Kranz (the family-sized version contains 16 eggs) is the stand out, may have more appeal to the less adventurous traveller, or those planning to kiss anybody in the next fortnight.In the evenings, tired from the day's exertions, we sit outside and watch the sun go down drinking beer and raspberry eau de vie from the distillery in nearby Furth, listening to the woodpeckers and the first hooting of the owls. At midnight the streetlights in the village go out automatically plunging the valley into velvety darkness. \"You, though,\" my friend says, \"could try and persuade people\". I tell him that I will do my best.If you're driving,  P&O offers Hull to Zeebrugge for a car with two adults and a child plus four-berth cabin from \u00a3400. Zebrugge is roughly 300 miles from the Odenwald. For rail itineraries, see The Man in Seat Sixty-One. Frankfurt is the nearest airport. Ryanair flies to Frankfurt (Hahn) from London from \u00a350. Angushof am Lind'lbrunnen, Mossautal-H\u00fcttenthal (+49 (0)6062 1494,  angushof-lindlbrunnen.de) is a farm located eight miles from Michelstadt in the nature park Bergstrasse-Odenwald where up to 25 people can sleep in a barn on beds of hay from \u20ac59pp per night. People suffering from hay fever can use a tipi. Alternatively, Hotel Michelst\u00e4dter Hof (+49 (0)6061 671, michelstaedter-hof.de) is 5km from Erbach and Michelstedt, in the immediate vicinity of the forest. Doubles from \u20ac44.", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks", "Rest and relaxation"], "title": "Harry Pearson on why he loves Odenwald in Germany"},{"date": "2008-06-04T11:22:40Z", "country": "germany", "content": "\"Nobody wants to set up barriers for investors. Anybody doing this would be crazy,\" Peer Steinbruck, the German finance minister, said last month in Kuwait City during a tour of the Gulf. Yet this is exactly what his government is planning.This week saw a preliminary agreement in Berlin on a draft law to hand ministers the right to veto any foreign - non-EU - investment of more than 25% in \"key\" German firms. The piece of legislation, amending the \"external economy law\" or Aussenwirtschaftsgesetz, could be presented to parliament before the summer break.In its draft form, the law foresees the entire cabinet examining about 10 such investments a year if ministers think they threaten national security or public order. It resembles the 33-year-old Committee on Foreign Investment in the US (Cfius), headed by the treasury secretary, Hank Paulson, which has,  inter alia, examined Chinese firm Lenovo's takeover of IBM's PC/laptop business.The legislation is squarely aimed at state-owned sovereign wealth funds (SWFs) which control an estimated $3trillion (\u00a31.5trillion) - a drop in the ocean compared with the funds of institutional investors but swollen now by soaring commodity prices and trade surpluses. For many Germans, they are the new \"locusts\" - and twice as large as the reviled hedge funds they are replacing in popular demonology.Of course, Steinbruck and his colleagues are desperate to provide reassurance to SWFs such as the venerable Kuwait Investment Authority, a long-standing investor in Daimler, owner of Mercedes cars. They will be told they have nothing to fear. The world's biggest exporter remains open for business. And the funds have proven their worth by rescuing big banks such as UBS during the credit crunch.But ministers and leading bundestag deputies have raised the spectre of funds investing for nefarious political purposes, to filch technology, seize control of sensitive networks or even control media channels. So far, there's zero evidence of this, although similar concerns have been cited by the IMF and OECD as they seek to draw up an agreed voluntary code of conduct for the SWFs.Michael Meister, a leading member of the centre-right CDU/CSU parliamentary group, said this week the prime aim of the draft law was to control investments in infrastructure - airports, rail tracks, gas and electricity grids and telecoms. Behind it, clearly, lies a fear that, for example, the state-owned Russian railways could buy into Deutsche Bahn when 24.9% of its services and logistics business is floated. Or Gazprom could buy parts of E.On's power or RWE's gas grids. Or the Chinese could snap up Frankfurt arport!But none of this is set out clearly in the draft law which sees the economics ministry proposing which investments should be examined and recommending a course of action to the entire cabinet.It will also consult the main business and sectoral industry lobbies, handing them an extraordinary say, while some ministers could simply object because of the alleged impact on jobs. And who will define \"national security\" - that notorious refuge for protectionist instincts?What's more, it is far from clear that only SWFs are affected. German media reports suggest the law, as drafted, does not name individual investor groups so our old \"locust\" friends, the hedge funds and private equity firms, could be caught in the net. Unsurprisingly, some politicians hope the proposed law will never be enacted - and international agreement on a code of conduct take pride of place instead.While all \"green\" eyes have been on Rome this week with the Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) conference on world food and the dispute over the role of biofuels in raising prices, the EU has been quietly rowing back further from its target of making biofuels account for 10% of all transport fuels by 2020.First, Claude Turmes, a Luxembourg Green MEP and energy expert, called for the target to be scrapped in a report last month. Then Anders Wijkman, a centre-right Swedish MEP and rapporteur for the parliament's environment committee, said it should be reduced to, say, 8%. Ahead of the FAO, 31 development and environment non-governmental organisations called for the target to be scrapped.Stavros Dimas, the EU environment commissioner, is listening. \"I know there are voices in parliament calling for reducing the target,\" he told me this week - the clearest signal that the commission is ready to think again in the face of increasingly hostile opinion.The final decision, he smiled, depends on co-decision - the EU's highly complex procedure for working out compromises on contentious legislation between parliament and the council of ministers with input from the commission. And Dimas knows the 27 national governments are deeply divided on the issue, unable to agree after more than two months of high-level talks on the required \"sustainability criteria\" for producing biofuels.Wijkman wants these to include a requirement that biofuels save at least 50% of greenhouse gases compared with conventional fuels while EU environment ministers discussed an initial 35% saving this week. That happens to be the level reached by rapeseed oil, produced in countries such as France, which is resisting proposals to set the bar higher at 50 or 60%.When the EU heads of government meet for their summit later this month, they will be reminded they insisted that second-generation output must also be commercially available when they endorsed the 10% biofuels target in March last year. This means fuel produced from biomass and other non-crop materials which have no impact on food prices. Dimas, torn this way and that by the conflicting opinions, said: \"We have to look very carefully at the social and environmental impacts that can be caused by the use of food crops but I hope we can get the right balance of answers and strict criteria while meeting the target.\" Not least, he desperately wants to retain the EU's leadership role in fighting climate change.But there's the rub. It is not only farmers and producers who are clinging on to the 10% target, saying it is essential for investment decisions. Oliver Schafer, the policy director of the European Renewable Energy Council, says scrapping the target would mean Europe losing its ability to influence the world's production of sustainable biofuels - and \"give up a crucial alternative to our oil dependency and its ever-increasing prices\".", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe", "Business"], "title": "Germany fears the new 'locusts'"},{"date": "2008-05-22T08:29:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Lower Rhine Music Festival, Dusseldorf, Tuesday.\"Ever since the far-off times of the great madrigal composers, England has played but a modest part in the concert of the great musical powers.\"For the products of the musical mind, she has depended almost entirely on importation, she has exported nothing but works of a lighter order.\"Such are the words with which the German author of the \"Gerontius\" programme, specially written for this Festival, introduces his subject.Rightly or wrongly, Germany and the Continent of Europe in general did not feel that serious English music was a thing to be taken seriously, and to that fact the writer (of the programme notes) refers with ingenious delicacy, going on to say that about the turn of the century a change began to be noticeable.Everyone concerned with musical affairs knows how that change was brought about, though not everyone on our side of the Channel cares to admit what he knows. It is in the main to Edward Elgar - a man who has done his best work living quietly in the Malvern Hills, remote from commercial distraction and the strife of commercialism - that the change is due.It is not accidental that on the present occasion the names of Handel, Mendelssohn, Schumann are absent, while Bach is very abundantly represented, Beethoven's name figures in connection with the most modern in feeling of all his works (the C minor Symphony) and Liszt's with his revolutionary Faust Symphony. Nor is it accidental that the preference is given to Strauss among German and Elgar among English composers. The performance of yesterday was remarkable for grandeur and dignity, and for the splendid manner in which the vast and complex web of tone was spread out by the mighty orchestra and choir.On looking back at the extraordinary eloquence and beauty of the musical symbolism in the prelude and death agony of Gerontius, one [now] perceives that the quietus which comes to the spirit in the scene following Gerontius's death is merely a climax in a process that really begins with the first note.", "tags": ["Music", "Germany", "Classical music", "Culture", "Europe", "Edward Elgar"], "title": "Gerontius goes to Germany"},{"date": "2008-06-11T09:49:19Z", "country": "germany", "content": "One evening in early June a friend and I sat on the terrace of his family's holiday home on a hillside above a small village in the Odenwald, an area of rolling, wooded countryside that stretches from east of the Rhine in southern Hesse all the way to Bavaria. It had been 25C for almost a week and our children had spent the afternoon in an outdoor swimming pool filled with fresh spring water, while the grown-ups sprawled in the grass eating ice-cream flavoured with woodruff and big slices of baked cheesecake. It was evening and we sat drinking a hefty, dark doppelbock from a local brewery, the splendidly named, Schmucker. \"Do you think,\" my friend said, \"other English people would like it if they came here?\"I took a sip of my beer and examined the view. On the other side of the narrow valley a herd of caramel-coloured cattle moved lethargically across a flower-speckled meadow towards their byre in a small half-timbered farmstead to which the kids went each morning to buy unpasteurised milk from a little old lady in a pinny. The only sound was the breeze in the scotch pines behind the house, the calling of a cuckoo and the rustling of some dormice that had taken up residence in the eaves. The Odenwald is the site of the Nibelungen Saga. Two miles from where we were sitting Siegfried clubbed the dragon Regin to death and bathed in his blood, but the benign and placid scene in front of me called to mind Heidi rather than Kriemhild. \"Of course,\" I told my friend, \"Who wouldn't like it? The problem is to get them to come here\".Aside from Munich and Berlin, English people show a marked reluctance to visit Germany. The German Tourist Board in London works tirelessly, their French counterparts, meanwhile, simply crook a finger, the Italians merely wink. Suggest a travel book about the country to a publisher and he or she will suck air and recall the time they did one a decade ago and the huge, unsold piles that still remain. It wasn't always like this. At one time the Black Forest and Rhine cruises were immensely popular with British tourists. But just as our national taste in wine has shifted over the years until the once apparently unstoppably popular Liebfraumilch has more or less disappeared from our tables altogether, so Germany has gradually slipped off the holiday map.It is a pity, because Germany has much to offer and, since the arrival of the euro, appears somewhat cheaper to visit than its neighbours too. If Germany has an equivalent to La France Profonde (Deutschland Gemutlich?) then the Odenwald is surely it. Aside from a couple of small, well-preserved medieval towns, Michelstadt and Erbach, the main attraction is the gentle, hilly countryside, a place of high meadows and deep woods, where flocks of goats wander beneath the snowy blossom of apple and pear trees. We spent our week walking on the gravel paths that lead over the hills - the highest is about a thousand feet \u2013 watching out for wild boar, red deer and pine martens. On one we climbed up a wooden tower and, looking south-eastwards, could see the outlines of Castle Frankenstein. We never took food with us, because as Jerome K Jerome observed in his typically genial celebration of a holiday in the Black Forest \"Three Men On The Bummel\" Germany is so well-ordered a place that no sooner has the hiker thought \"Mmm, I could do with a drink and possibly a slice of cake,\" than he turns a corner and finds himself confronted by a rustic inn presided over by a convivial man in an apron who has pledged his life to that exact purpose. The Odenwald is the only place in Germany where the local drink of choice is cider (Appelwoi). It's a dry, flat variety that is served ice cold in stoneware jugs called Bembels. Before we sampled it our friends cautioned us about its earthy qualities and assured us that, \"It tastes better after the third glass\". My partner is from Herefordshire, however, and as she remarked afterwards \"If they think that stuff was rough we'll have to take them to Ross-on-Wye sometime\". Appelwoi is traditionally accompanied by Kochkasse, a semi-soft white cheese that my friend's son memorably described as \"looking like a big plate of flab\". The cheese is sprinkled with cumin seeds and eaten on sourdough bread with a big dollop of sliced pickled onions. The selection of cakes, amongst which the mighty Frankfurt Kranz (the family-sized version contains 16 eggs) is the stand out, may have more appeal to the less adventurous traveller, or those planning to kiss anybody in the next fortnight.In the evenings, tired from the day's exertions, we sit outside and watch the sun go down drinking beer and raspberry eau de vie from the distillery in nearby Furth, listening to the woodpeckers and the first hooting of the owls. At midnight the streetlights in the village go out automatically plunging the valley into velvety darkness. \"You, though,\" my friend says, \"could try and persuade people\". I tell him that I will do my best.If you're driving,  P&O offers Hull to Zeebrugge for a car with two adults and a child plus four-berth cabin from \u00a3400. Zebrugge is roughly 300 miles from the Odenwald. For rail itineraries, see The Man in Seat Sixty-One. Frankfurt is the nearest airport. Ryanair flies to Frankfurt (Hahn) from London from \u00a350. Angushof am Lind'lbrunnen, Mossautal-H\u00fcttenthal (+49 (0)6062 1494,  angushof-lindlbrunnen.de) is a farm located eight miles from Michelstadt in the nature park Bergstrasse-Odenwald where up to 25 people can sleep in a barn on beds of hay from \u20ac59pp per night. People suffering from hay fever can use a tipi. Alternatively, Hotel Michelst\u00e4dter Hof (+49 (0)6061 671, michelstaedter-hof.de) is 5km from Erbach and Michelstedt, in the immediate vicinity of the forest. Doubles from \u20ac44.", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Travel", "Short breaks", "Rest and relaxation"], "title": "Harry Pearson on why he loves Odenwald in Germany"},{"date": "2008-06-04T11:22:40Z", "country": "germany", "content": "\"Nobody wants to set up barriers for investors. Anybody doing this would be crazy,\" Peer Steinbruck, the German finance minister, said last month in Kuwait City during a tour of the Gulf. Yet this is exactly what his government is planning.This week saw a preliminary agreement in Berlin on a draft law to hand ministers the right to veto any foreign - non-EU - investment of more than 25% in \"key\" German firms. The piece of legislation, amending the \"external economy law\" or Aussenwirtschaftsgesetz, could be presented to parliament before the summer break.In its draft form, the law foresees the entire cabinet examining about 10 such investments a year if ministers think they threaten national security or public order. It resembles the 33-year-old Committee on Foreign Investment in the US (Cfius), headed by the treasury secretary, Hank Paulson, which has,  inter alia, examined Chinese firm Lenovo's takeover of IBM's PC/laptop business.The legislation is squarely aimed at state-owned sovereign wealth funds (SWFs) which control an estimated $3trillion (\u00a31.5trillion) - a drop in the ocean compared with the funds of institutional investors but swollen now by soaring commodity prices and trade surpluses. For many Germans, they are the new \"locusts\" - and twice as large as the reviled hedge funds they are replacing in popular demonology.Of course, Steinbruck and his colleagues are desperate to provide reassurance to SWFs such as the venerable Kuwait Investment Authority, a long-standing investor in Daimler, owner of Mercedes cars. They will be told they have nothing to fear. The world's biggest exporter remains open for business. And the funds have proven their worth by rescuing big banks such as UBS during the credit crunch.But ministers and leading bundestag deputies have raised the spectre of funds investing for nefarious political purposes, to filch technology, seize control of sensitive networks or even control media channels. So far, there's zero evidence of this, although similar concerns have been cited by the IMF and OECD as they seek to draw up an agreed voluntary code of conduct for the SWFs.Michael Meister, a leading member of the centre-right CDU/CSU parliamentary group, said this week the prime aim of the draft law was to control investments in infrastructure - airports, rail tracks, gas and electricity grids and telecoms. Behind it, clearly, lies a fear that, for example, the state-owned Russian railways could buy into Deutsche Bahn when 24.9% of its services and logistics business is floated. Or Gazprom could buy parts of E.On's power or RWE's gas grids. Or the Chinese could snap up Frankfurt arport!But none of this is set out clearly in the draft law which sees the economics ministry proposing which investments should be examined and recommending a course of action to the entire cabinet.It will also consult the main business and sectoral industry lobbies, handing them an extraordinary say, while some ministers could simply object because of the alleged impact on jobs. And who will define \"national security\" - that notorious refuge for protectionist instincts?What's more, it is far from clear that only SWFs are affected. German media reports suggest the law, as drafted, does not name individual investor groups so our old \"locust\" friends, the hedge funds and private equity firms, could be caught in the net. Unsurprisingly, some politicians hope the proposed law will never be enacted - and international agreement on a code of conduct take pride of place instead.While all \"green\" eyes have been on Rome this week with the Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) conference on world food and the dispute over the role of biofuels in raising prices, the EU has been quietly rowing back further from its target of making biofuels account for 10% of all transport fuels by 2020.First, Claude Turmes, a Luxembourg Green MEP and energy expert, called for the target to be scrapped in a report last month. Then Anders Wijkman, a centre-right Swedish MEP and rapporteur for the parliament's environment committee, said it should be reduced to, say, 8%. Ahead of the FAO, 31 development and environment non-governmental organisations called for the target to be scrapped.Stavros Dimas, the EU environment commissioner, is listening. \"I know there are voices in parliament calling for reducing the target,\" he told me this week - the clearest signal that the commission is ready to think again in the face of increasingly hostile opinion.The final decision, he smiled, depends on co-decision - the EU's highly complex procedure for working out compromises on contentious legislation between parliament and the council of ministers with input from the commission. And Dimas knows the 27 national governments are deeply divided on the issue, unable to agree after more than two months of high-level talks on the required \"sustainability criteria\" for producing biofuels.Wijkman wants these to include a requirement that biofuels save at least 50% of greenhouse gases compared with conventional fuels while EU environment ministers discussed an initial 35% saving this week. That happens to be the level reached by rapeseed oil, produced in countries such as France, which is resisting proposals to set the bar higher at 50 or 60%.When the EU heads of government meet for their summit later this month, they will be reminded they insisted that second-generation output must also be commercially available when they endorsed the 10% biofuels target in March last year. This means fuel produced from biomass and other non-crop materials which have no impact on food prices. Dimas, torn this way and that by the conflicting opinions, said: \"We have to look very carefully at the social and environmental impacts that can be caused by the use of food crops but I hope we can get the right balance of answers and strict criteria while meeting the target.\" Not least, he desperately wants to retain the EU's leadership role in fighting climate change.But there's the rub. It is not only farmers and producers who are clinging on to the 10% target, saying it is essential for investment decisions. Oliver Schafer, the policy director of the European Renewable Energy Council, says scrapping the target would mean Europe losing its ability to influence the world's production of sustainable biofuels - and \"give up a crucial alternative to our oil dependency and its ever-increasing prices\".", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe", "Business"], "title": "Germany fears the new 'locusts'"},{"date": "2008-05-28T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "\u00b7 Germany is the most populous of the EU member states, with 82 million inhabitants. It also has the largest economy in Europe.\u00b7 Modern-day Germany was at the centre of the Holy Roman Empire, which at its height included Austria, Switzerland, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Belgium, the Netherlands and bits of France, Italy and Poland. This era is sometimes termed the First Reich.\u00b7 The Second Reich began with the unification of Germany in 1871, and ended in either 1918 or 1943, depending on whether or not you were Hitler. East and West Germany were formally reunited in October 1990, less than a year after the wall that divided them fell in November 1989.\u00b7 It is common when you move house in Germany to take your kitchen cabinets with you. \u00b7 More than 14% of Germany's electricity is generated from renewable sources. \u00b7 Angela Merkel is the chancellor of Germany, but can you name the president? He's called Horst Kohler, and he has just announced he's running for re-election.\u00b7 Germany is the largest exporter of goods in the world, in terms of monetary value.\u00b7 The German alphabet has the standard 26 letters, plus three vowels that take an umlaut (\u00e4, \u00f6 and \u00fc), plus that squiggly B (\u00df), which is actually a \"sharp s\" or eszett. \u00b7 Sixty-seven per cent of Germans claim to speak at least one foreign language, and 27% claim two or more. \u00b7 Germany is the world's leading producer of wind turbines.\u00b7 The British monarchy took a Hanoverian turn with the Act of Settlement of 1701, which prevented Catholics from succeeding to the throne. The closest Protestant relative to the childless Queen Anne was Sophia, Electress of Hanover, and when she died, aged 83, just weeks before Anne, the crown of Great Britain passed to her son George in 1714. George I was widely ridiculed in Britain for being unable to speak English, but on the continent he was seen as progressive and pro-Enlightenment.\u00b7 The German town of Schonach im Schwarzwald, Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg, claims to have the world's two biggest cuckoo clocks. One of the cuckoos in one of the clocks is 5m long and weighs 150kg. \u00b7 Annual German beer consumption in 2006 was 116 litres per capita per annum, down from 126 in 2000. The British, by contrast, drink only 99 litres a year.\u00b7 The Weihenstephaner brewery in Bavaria, said to be the world's oldest in continuous production, has been running since 1040.\u00b7 Germany is the ninth largest wine-producer in the world, despite having only about a tenth of the total vineyard acreage of either Spain, Italy or France. German vineyards traditionally - and predominantly - produce white wine. But red wine production has surged in recent years and now accounts for about a third of all cultivation. Sp\u00e4tburgunder, the local name for pinot noir, is the most popular variety. \u00b7 It was on October 31 1517, that Martin Luther nailed a copy of his 95 Theses to the door of the castle church in Wittenberg, touching off the Reformation.\u00b7 Both Berlin and Hamburg have gay mayors. Berlin's mayor, Klaus Wowereit, proclaimed his sexuality in 2001, before being elected, with the words, \"Ich bin schwul, und das ist auch gut so\" (\"I'm gay and that's OK\").\u00b7 Germany has 414 registered zoos, more than America. The Zoologischer Garten in Berlin is the largest zoo in the world in terms of animal population (14,000) and the number of species (1,500).\u00b7 Ulm cathedral, begun in 1377 and finally completed in 1890, is 162m high, and was the tallest building in the world from 1890 to 1901. \u00b7 \"Das soll wohl ein Witz sein!\" is \"You're joking!\" in German. Always best to check.", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Travel", "Germany", "Euro 2008", "Football", "Europe"], "title": "Tim Dowling's mini guide to Germany"},{"date": "2008-08-21T18:46:47Z", "country": "germany", "content": "London-based property site Nestoria has expanded again, this time starting out in Europe's biggest internet market, Germany with Nestoria.de. Ed Freyfogle - who we profiled on the site in January - said the site has partnered with some heavyweights in German classified advertising, including the newspaper publishers Sueddeutsche and Kalaydo, Deutsche Telekom's ImmobilienScout24, AxelSpringer's Immonet and some web specialists MyImmoWorld, S-Immobilien and 1a-immobilienmarkt... and those are just for starters.It's a very simple property search service, very sensibly taking more than a few leaves from Google's style book. Rather than setting up deals with estate agents, which makes for those swathes of very samey property sites, Nestoria trawls the web for the latest properties, both for sale and rent, and indexes those in that familiar search engine manner. It's the simplicity and technical competence of this site which has got it attention - and these partnership deals, which see them white labelling their property search for these ad and media sites; just as they have for the Independent and Channel 4 in UK and property industry blog immobilienportale in Germany.And this follows Nestoria's last launch for the Italian market in July. Great to see a startup concentrate on the EU, despite the language issues. Freyfogle said that each of those are very different and there will be inevitable fine tuning of the German site over the next few months.One day Elevator Pitch - the next day the world!", "tags": ["Internet", "Business", "Digital media", "Search engines", "Technology", "Technology startups", "Media"], "title": "Nestoria expands to Germany"},{"date": "2008-08-21T18:46:47Z", "country": "germany", "content": "London-based property site Nestoria has expanded again, this time starting out in Europe's biggest internet market, Germany with Nestoria.de. Ed Freyfogle - who we profiled on the site in January - said the site has partnered with some heavyweights in German classified advertising, including the newspaper publishers Sueddeutsche and Kalaydo, Deutsche Telekom's ImmobilienScout24, AxelSpringer's Immonet and some web specialists MyImmoWorld, S-Immobilien and 1a-immobilienmarkt... and those are just for starters.It's a very simple property search service, very sensibly taking more than a few leaves from Google's style book. Rather than setting up deals with estate agents, which makes for those swathes of very samey property sites, Nestoria trawls the web for the latest properties, both for sale and rent, and indexes those in that familiar search engine manner. It's the simplicity and technical competence of this site which has got it attention - and these partnership deals, which see them white labelling their property search for these ad and media sites; just as they have for the Independent and Channel 4 in UK and property industry blog immobilienportale in Germany.And this follows Nestoria's last launch for the Italian market in July. Great to see a startup concentrate on the EU, despite the language issues. Freyfogle said that each of those are very different and there will be inevitable fine tuning of the German site over the next few months.One day Elevator Pitch - the next day the world!", "tags": ["Internet", "Business", "Digital media", "Search engines", "Technology", "Technology startups", "Media"], "title": "Nestoria expands to Germany"},{"date": "2008-08-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The quiet world of a small Bavarian community has been shattered by the revelations of a feud between its undertakers that ended in a murder that investigators called \"a near-perfect crime\".A row over an unpaid debt led two undertakers to allegedly batter to death a colleague and cremate his ashes under a false name before scattering them in a river, state prosecutors in Erlangen said.Friedrich P, a 53-year-old undertaker, has apparently admitted to beating Erich W to death with a piece of wood in B\u00fcchenbach in April last year after a dispute over the sale of the funeral parlour.Friedrich and his colleague Michael S. 52, who has yet to give a statement, are believed to have placed 43-year-old Erich's body in a hearse and driven it to a private crematorium where he was cremated under a false name before his ashes were scattered in a river near Nuremberg. Erich' s wife did not report her husband's disappearance for a year, believing that he may have emigrated to America.In Germany, surnames are withheld during criminal investigations.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Undertakers 'killed' parlour boss"},{"date": "2008-08-21T18:46:47Z", "country": "germany", "content": "London-based property site Nestoria has expanded again, this time starting out in Europe's biggest internet market, Germany with Nestoria.de. Ed Freyfogle - who we profiled on the site in January - said the site has partnered with some heavyweights in German classified advertising, including the newspaper publishers Sueddeutsche and Kalaydo, Deutsche Telekom's ImmobilienScout24, AxelSpringer's Immonet and some web specialists MyImmoWorld, S-Immobilien and 1a-immobilienmarkt... and those are just for starters.It's a very simple property search service, very sensibly taking more than a few leaves from Google's style book. Rather than setting up deals with estate agents, which makes for those swathes of very samey property sites, Nestoria trawls the web for the latest properties, both for sale and rent, and indexes those in that familiar search engine manner. It's the simplicity and technical competence of this site which has got it attention - and these partnership deals, which see them white labelling their property search for these ad and media sites; just as they have for the Independent and Channel 4 in UK and property industry blog immobilienportale in Germany.And this follows Nestoria's last launch for the Italian market in July. Great to see a startup concentrate on the EU, despite the language issues. Freyfogle said that each of those are very different and there will be inevitable fine tuning of the German site over the next few months.One day Elevator Pitch - the next day the world!", "tags": ["Internet", "Business", "Digital media", "Search engines", "Technology", "Technology startups", "Media"], "title": "Nestoria expands to Germany"},{"date": "2008-08-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The quiet world of a small Bavarian community has been shattered by the revelations of a feud between its undertakers that ended in a murder that investigators called \"a near-perfect crime\".A row over an unpaid debt led two undertakers to allegedly batter to death a colleague and cremate his ashes under a false name before scattering them in a river, state prosecutors in Erlangen said.Friedrich P, a 53-year-old undertaker, has apparently admitted to beating Erich W to death with a piece of wood in B\u00fcchenbach in April last year after a dispute over the sale of the funeral parlour.Friedrich and his colleague Michael S. 52, who has yet to give a statement, are believed to have placed 43-year-old Erich's body in a hearse and driven it to a private crematorium where he was cremated under a false name before his ashes were scattered in a river near Nuremberg. Erich' s wife did not report her husband's disappearance for a year, believing that he may have emigrated to America.In Germany, surnames are withheld during criminal investigations.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Undertakers 'killed' parlour boss"},{"date": "2008-09-22T16:27:30Z", "country": "germany", "content": "German leader Angela Merkel has issued a frank and angry attack on the US government for its failure to avoid a financial crisis, accusing it of mismanagement and stubbornness.Merkel said that taxpayers \"far beyond the United States and Britain\" would now carry the burden of a crisis which she said could have been prevented had the US acted more prudently and for which Britain was also to blame.As the German government refused to contribute to a $700bn (\u00a3378.7bn) rescue package proposed by Washington today, Merkel criticised the fact that despite impending dangers, the financial markets had been allowed to continue operating in a \"free-range\" and \"matter-of-fact way\", and were \"supported by the governments in Britain and the US\".Merkel told the M\u00fcnchner Merkur she had appealed to the Anglo-Saxon countries for more transparency to be introduced for the money markets, rating agencies and hedge funds at last year's G8, which she hosted on Germany's Baltic coast. But she said she had been disappointed at Britain and the US's lack of support for her proposals.Merkel indirectly attacked the US government for dragging the industrialised world into the US's credit crisis thanks to its stubborn refusal to apply virtually any controls to granting credit and allowing credit trading by banks.\"We did what we were supposed to do,\" said Merkel, referring to Germany. \"We adopted a decent EU regulation on the national statute books, having listened to the concerns of small businesses... but when it came to it, the Americans said 'that's not for us'.\"\"That's just not on in the international sphere,\" she added. \"It's just not fair competition.\"She said that while for a long time many had said more transparency was unnecessary, now more people were calling for it. \"Things have moved on,\" she said. \"Even America and Britain now want more transparency.\"\"Europe must step in to ensure that we get more transparency on the financial markets, that we get clear rules and that such a crisis that we're now seeing doesn't repeat itself.\"The German government persisted today in its refusal to participate in Washington's proposed bailout package. Anger is rife in Germany that the US-fuelled crisis is likely to severely dent Germany's continued economic recovery after years of downturn.Joachim Poss of the governing coalition partner, the Social Democrats, said: \"The Americans cannot hold Germany responsible for its own failure and arrogance.\"", "tags": ["Market turmoil", "Credit crunch", "Business", "US news", "Germany", "Financial crisis", "Angela Merkel", "Europe"], "title": "Germany slams US over credit crisis failures"},{"date": "2008-08-21T18:46:47Z", "country": "germany", "content": "London-based property site Nestoria has expanded again, this time starting out in Europe's biggest internet market, Germany with Nestoria.de. Ed Freyfogle - who we profiled on the site in January - said the site has partnered with some heavyweights in German classified advertising, including the newspaper publishers Sueddeutsche and Kalaydo, Deutsche Telekom's ImmobilienScout24, AxelSpringer's Immonet and some web specialists MyImmoWorld, S-Immobilien and 1a-immobilienmarkt... and those are just for starters.It's a very simple property search service, very sensibly taking more than a few leaves from Google's style book. Rather than setting up deals with estate agents, which makes for those swathes of very samey property sites, Nestoria trawls the web for the latest properties, both for sale and rent, and indexes those in that familiar search engine manner. It's the simplicity and technical competence of this site which has got it attention - and these partnership deals, which see them white labelling their property search for these ad and media sites; just as they have for the Independent and Channel 4 in UK and property industry blog immobilienportale in Germany.And this follows Nestoria's last launch for the Italian market in July. Great to see a startup concentrate on the EU, despite the language issues. Freyfogle said that each of those are very different and there will be inevitable fine tuning of the German site over the next few months.One day Elevator Pitch - the next day the world!", "tags": ["Internet", "Business", "Digital media", "Search engines", "Technology", "Technology startups", "Media"], "title": "Nestoria expands to Germany"},{"date": "2008-08-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The quiet world of a small Bavarian community has been shattered by the revelations of a feud between its undertakers that ended in a murder that investigators called \"a near-perfect crime\".A row over an unpaid debt led two undertakers to allegedly batter to death a colleague and cremate his ashes under a false name before scattering them in a river, state prosecutors in Erlangen said.Friedrich P, a 53-year-old undertaker, has apparently admitted to beating Erich W to death with a piece of wood in B\u00fcchenbach in April last year after a dispute over the sale of the funeral parlour.Friedrich and his colleague Michael S. 52, who has yet to give a statement, are believed to have placed 43-year-old Erich's body in a hearse and driven it to a private crematorium where he was cremated under a false name before his ashes were scattered in a river near Nuremberg. Erich' s wife did not report her husband's disappearance for a year, believing that he may have emigrated to America.In Germany, surnames are withheld during criminal investigations.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Undertakers 'killed' parlour boss"},{"date": "2008-09-22T16:27:30Z", "country": "germany", "content": "German leader Angela Merkel has issued a frank and angry attack on the US government for its failure to avoid a financial crisis, accusing it of mismanagement and stubbornness.Merkel said that taxpayers \"far beyond the United States and Britain\" would now carry the burden of a crisis which she said could have been prevented had the US acted more prudently and for which Britain was also to blame.As the German government refused to contribute to a $700bn (\u00a3378.7bn) rescue package proposed by Washington today, Merkel criticised the fact that despite impending dangers, the financial markets had been allowed to continue operating in a \"free-range\" and \"matter-of-fact way\", and were \"supported by the governments in Britain and the US\".Merkel told the M\u00fcnchner Merkur she had appealed to the Anglo-Saxon countries for more transparency to be introduced for the money markets, rating agencies and hedge funds at last year's G8, which she hosted on Germany's Baltic coast. But she said she had been disappointed at Britain and the US's lack of support for her proposals.Merkel indirectly attacked the US government for dragging the industrialised world into the US's credit crisis thanks to its stubborn refusal to apply virtually any controls to granting credit and allowing credit trading by banks.\"We did what we were supposed to do,\" said Merkel, referring to Germany. \"We adopted a decent EU regulation on the national statute books, having listened to the concerns of small businesses... but when it came to it, the Americans said 'that's not for us'.\"\"That's just not on in the international sphere,\" she added. \"It's just not fair competition.\"She said that while for a long time many had said more transparency was unnecessary, now more people were calling for it. \"Things have moved on,\" she said. \"Even America and Britain now want more transparency.\"\"Europe must step in to ensure that we get more transparency on the financial markets, that we get clear rules and that such a crisis that we're now seeing doesn't repeat itself.\"The German government persisted today in its refusal to participate in Washington's proposed bailout package. Anger is rife in Germany that the US-fuelled crisis is likely to severely dent Germany's continued economic recovery after years of downturn.Joachim Poss of the governing coalition partner, the Social Democrats, said: \"The Americans cannot hold Germany responsible for its own failure and arrogance.\"", "tags": ["Market turmoil", "Credit crunch", "Business", "US news", "Germany", "Financial crisis", "Angela Merkel", "Europe"], "title": "Germany slams US over credit crisis failures"},{"date": "2008-09-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "With its severed spire and crumbling facades, it has long stood as a reminder of the German downfall in 1945, a reminder to Berliners of how low the city was brought during the second world war. But now the famous Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church - nicknamed the \"Hollow Tooth\" - is facing twin adversaries that could prove more formidable than allied bombers: the Berlin weather and a credit crunch.The clock is ticking for the Ged\u00e4chtniskirche, as it is otherwise known. Officials warn that, unless a fundraising campaign, which has so far proved underwhelming, can be accelerated, the structure could be forced to close early next year.The church is under attack on all fronts. Vibrations from heavy traffic along the Kurf\u00fcrstendamm are shaking its foundations. More seriously, water is seeping into the tower, meaning it will freeze in winter and crack the stone. Fragments may crash down to the street or into the foyer.\"If we have a very strong winter with very intense changes of temperature, there's certain risk,\" said Wolfgang Kuhla, head of the memorial church board. \"We would have to start the renovations to avoid real danger.\" Fundraising started almost a year ago with a \u00a3500 donation from Charles Jeffrey Gray, who flew on British bombing raids over Berlin. In recognition of the building's importance, Berlin's mayor, Klaus Wowereit, recently pledged an additional \u20ac1m from the state-run lottery. But as the credit crunch hits, the money raised has fallen well short of the \u20ac4.1m (\u00a33.3m) the church needs, meaning building work has been postponed until the spring. Built in 1895, the shell of the church attracts more than a million visitors a year. Most of the structure was destroyed in a bombing raid on November 3 1943.", "tags": ["Germany", "Heritage", "Art and design", "World news", "Architecture", "Buildings at risk", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Berlin's 'Hollow Tooth' church may be forced to close, officials warn"},{"date": "2008-08-21T18:46:47Z", "country": "germany", "content": "London-based property site Nestoria has expanded again, this time starting out in Europe's biggest internet market, Germany with Nestoria.de. Ed Freyfogle - who we profiled on the site in January - said the site has partnered with some heavyweights in German classified advertising, including the newspaper publishers Sueddeutsche and Kalaydo, Deutsche Telekom's ImmobilienScout24, AxelSpringer's Immonet and some web specialists MyImmoWorld, S-Immobilien and 1a-immobilienmarkt... and those are just for starters.It's a very simple property search service, very sensibly taking more than a few leaves from Google's style book. Rather than setting up deals with estate agents, which makes for those swathes of very samey property sites, Nestoria trawls the web for the latest properties, both for sale and rent, and indexes those in that familiar search engine manner. It's the simplicity and technical competence of this site which has got it attention - and these partnership deals, which see them white labelling their property search for these ad and media sites; just as they have for the Independent and Channel 4 in UK and property industry blog immobilienportale in Germany.And this follows Nestoria's last launch for the Italian market in July. Great to see a startup concentrate on the EU, despite the language issues. Freyfogle said that each of those are very different and there will be inevitable fine tuning of the German site over the next few months.One day Elevator Pitch - the next day the world!", "tags": ["Internet", "Business", "Digital media", "Search engines", "Technology", "Technology startups", "Media"], "title": "Nestoria expands to Germany"},{"date": "2008-08-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The quiet world of a small Bavarian community has been shattered by the revelations of a feud between its undertakers that ended in a murder that investigators called \"a near-perfect crime\".A row over an unpaid debt led two undertakers to allegedly batter to death a colleague and cremate his ashes under a false name before scattering them in a river, state prosecutors in Erlangen said.Friedrich P, a 53-year-old undertaker, has apparently admitted to beating Erich W to death with a piece of wood in B\u00fcchenbach in April last year after a dispute over the sale of the funeral parlour.Friedrich and his colleague Michael S. 52, who has yet to give a statement, are believed to have placed 43-year-old Erich's body in a hearse and driven it to a private crematorium where he was cremated under a false name before his ashes were scattered in a river near Nuremberg. Erich' s wife did not report her husband's disappearance for a year, believing that he may have emigrated to America.In Germany, surnames are withheld during criminal investigations.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Undertakers 'killed' parlour boss"},{"date": "2008-09-22T16:27:30Z", "country": "germany", "content": "German leader Angela Merkel has issued a frank and angry attack on the US government for its failure to avoid a financial crisis, accusing it of mismanagement and stubbornness.Merkel said that taxpayers \"far beyond the United States and Britain\" would now carry the burden of a crisis which she said could have been prevented had the US acted more prudently and for which Britain was also to blame.As the German government refused to contribute to a $700bn (\u00a3378.7bn) rescue package proposed by Washington today, Merkel criticised the fact that despite impending dangers, the financial markets had been allowed to continue operating in a \"free-range\" and \"matter-of-fact way\", and were \"supported by the governments in Britain and the US\".Merkel told the M\u00fcnchner Merkur she had appealed to the Anglo-Saxon countries for more transparency to be introduced for the money markets, rating agencies and hedge funds at last year's G8, which she hosted on Germany's Baltic coast. But she said she had been disappointed at Britain and the US's lack of support for her proposals.Merkel indirectly attacked the US government for dragging the industrialised world into the US's credit crisis thanks to its stubborn refusal to apply virtually any controls to granting credit and allowing credit trading by banks.\"We did what we were supposed to do,\" said Merkel, referring to Germany. \"We adopted a decent EU regulation on the national statute books, having listened to the concerns of small businesses... but when it came to it, the Americans said 'that's not for us'.\"\"That's just not on in the international sphere,\" she added. \"It's just not fair competition.\"She said that while for a long time many had said more transparency was unnecessary, now more people were calling for it. \"Things have moved on,\" she said. \"Even America and Britain now want more transparency.\"\"Europe must step in to ensure that we get more transparency on the financial markets, that we get clear rules and that such a crisis that we're now seeing doesn't repeat itself.\"The German government persisted today in its refusal to participate in Washington's proposed bailout package. Anger is rife in Germany that the US-fuelled crisis is likely to severely dent Germany's continued economic recovery after years of downturn.Joachim Poss of the governing coalition partner, the Social Democrats, said: \"The Americans cannot hold Germany responsible for its own failure and arrogance.\"", "tags": ["Market turmoil", "Credit crunch", "Business", "US news", "Germany", "Financial crisis", "Angela Merkel", "Europe"], "title": "Germany slams US over credit crisis failures"},{"date": "2008-09-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "With its severed spire and crumbling facades, it has long stood as a reminder of the German downfall in 1945, a reminder to Berliners of how low the city was brought during the second world war. But now the famous Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church - nicknamed the \"Hollow Tooth\" - is facing twin adversaries that could prove more formidable than allied bombers: the Berlin weather and a credit crunch.The clock is ticking for the Ged\u00e4chtniskirche, as it is otherwise known. Officials warn that, unless a fundraising campaign, which has so far proved underwhelming, can be accelerated, the structure could be forced to close early next year.The church is under attack on all fronts. Vibrations from heavy traffic along the Kurf\u00fcrstendamm are shaking its foundations. More seriously, water is seeping into the tower, meaning it will freeze in winter and crack the stone. Fragments may crash down to the street or into the foyer.\"If we have a very strong winter with very intense changes of temperature, there's certain risk,\" said Wolfgang Kuhla, head of the memorial church board. \"We would have to start the renovations to avoid real danger.\" Fundraising started almost a year ago with a \u00a3500 donation from Charles Jeffrey Gray, who flew on British bombing raids over Berlin. In recognition of the building's importance, Berlin's mayor, Klaus Wowereit, recently pledged an additional \u20ac1m from the state-run lottery. But as the credit crunch hits, the money raised has fallen well short of the \u20ac4.1m (\u00a33.3m) the church needs, meaning building work has been postponed until the spring. Built in 1895, the shell of the church attracts more than a million visitors a year. Most of the structure was destroyed in a bombing raid on November 3 1943.", "tags": ["Germany", "Heritage", "Art and design", "World news", "Architecture", "Buildings at risk", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Berlin's 'Hollow Tooth' church may be forced to close, officials warn"},{"date": "2008-09-03T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Speaker rose in a crowded House of Commons today. \"National Registration Emergency Bill,\" he recited, and the Chief Whip said according to the ritual. \"To-morrow,\" which is the Parliamentary device for passing over a measure that it is not desired should be immediately discussed. There was a roll-call of half a dozen such bills, and then the Speaker almost casually called, \"The Prime Minister!\" Just so have sessions of Parliament opened decade after decade, and some have left no imprint at all behind them on their national history; to-day's session belongs to the very few high peaks of our national destiny - the day we went to war to destroy Hitlerism.\"The Prime Minister.\" He had been loudly cheered when he came into the Chamber. He began almost in a whisper. He referred at once to the doubts about the Government's firmness that struck the whole House nearly dumb after his statement last night. There is no need now to go over the anguish that searched every soul in the House last night at the delayed ultimatum.He then told of the ultimatum. There had been no reply from Berlin. \"Consequently,\" he went on in subdued tones, \"this country is now at war with Germany.\" Even Mr Chamberlain's thin voice could not rob those words of the ring of fate.France had also sent an ultimatum with a time-limit. Here was relief, the destruction of the last plaguing doubt. There was a loud burst of cheering.Emotion nearly mastered Mr Chamberlain now. He spoke of this sad day that had brought to ruin \"everything I have worked for and hoped for during my public life.\" There was a murmur of sympathy from the packed benches. He ended with the hope that \"I may live to see the day when Hitlerism has been destroyed,\" to which there was the instant response of a sustained cheer. Mr Greenwood, who so magnificently spoke in those torturing moments last night, spoke even better today. Nothing could have been more admirable than his contrast of last night's \"anger and apprehension\" with \"the relief, composure and resolution\" of today. \"The intolerable agony of suspense is over,\" and a relieved House cheered its agreement with the Deputy Labour Leader.Then Mr Lloyd George rose and the House, remembering only the great leader of the nation in the last war, welcomed him with rounds of cheers. \"I have been through this before,\" he said, shaking his white hair. Suddenly raising his head he told the House in accents that still hold their spell that he himself had always found the country greatest in moments of disaster.", "tags": ["Second world war"], "title": "Britain is now at war with Germany"},{"date": "2008-08-21T18:46:47Z", "country": "germany", "content": "London-based property site Nestoria has expanded again, this time starting out in Europe's biggest internet market, Germany with Nestoria.de. Ed Freyfogle - who we profiled on the site in January - said the site has partnered with some heavyweights in German classified advertising, including the newspaper publishers Sueddeutsche and Kalaydo, Deutsche Telekom's ImmobilienScout24, AxelSpringer's Immonet and some web specialists MyImmoWorld, S-Immobilien and 1a-immobilienmarkt... and those are just for starters.It's a very simple property search service, very sensibly taking more than a few leaves from Google's style book. Rather than setting up deals with estate agents, which makes for those swathes of very samey property sites, Nestoria trawls the web for the latest properties, both for sale and rent, and indexes those in that familiar search engine manner. It's the simplicity and technical competence of this site which has got it attention - and these partnership deals, which see them white labelling their property search for these ad and media sites; just as they have for the Independent and Channel 4 in UK and property industry blog immobilienportale in Germany.And this follows Nestoria's last launch for the Italian market in July. Great to see a startup concentrate on the EU, despite the language issues. Freyfogle said that each of those are very different and there will be inevitable fine tuning of the German site over the next few months.One day Elevator Pitch - the next day the world!", "tags": ["Internet", "Business", "Digital media", "Search engines", "Technology", "Technology startups", "Media"], "title": "Nestoria expands to Germany"},{"date": "2008-08-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The quiet world of a small Bavarian community has been shattered by the revelations of a feud between its undertakers that ended in a murder that investigators called \"a near-perfect crime\".A row over an unpaid debt led two undertakers to allegedly batter to death a colleague and cremate his ashes under a false name before scattering them in a river, state prosecutors in Erlangen said.Friedrich P, a 53-year-old undertaker, has apparently admitted to beating Erich W to death with a piece of wood in B\u00fcchenbach in April last year after a dispute over the sale of the funeral parlour.Friedrich and his colleague Michael S. 52, who has yet to give a statement, are believed to have placed 43-year-old Erich's body in a hearse and driven it to a private crematorium where he was cremated under a false name before his ashes were scattered in a river near Nuremberg. Erich' s wife did not report her husband's disappearance for a year, believing that he may have emigrated to America.In Germany, surnames are withheld during criminal investigations.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Undertakers 'killed' parlour boss"},{"date": "2008-09-22T16:27:30Z", "country": "germany", "content": "German leader Angela Merkel has issued a frank and angry attack on the US government for its failure to avoid a financial crisis, accusing it of mismanagement and stubbornness.Merkel said that taxpayers \"far beyond the United States and Britain\" would now carry the burden of a crisis which she said could have been prevented had the US acted more prudently and for which Britain was also to blame.As the German government refused to contribute to a $700bn (\u00a3378.7bn) rescue package proposed by Washington today, Merkel criticised the fact that despite impending dangers, the financial markets had been allowed to continue operating in a \"free-range\" and \"matter-of-fact way\", and were \"supported by the governments in Britain and the US\".Merkel told the M\u00fcnchner Merkur she had appealed to the Anglo-Saxon countries for more transparency to be introduced for the money markets, rating agencies and hedge funds at last year's G8, which she hosted on Germany's Baltic coast. But she said she had been disappointed at Britain and the US's lack of support for her proposals.Merkel indirectly attacked the US government for dragging the industrialised world into the US's credit crisis thanks to its stubborn refusal to apply virtually any controls to granting credit and allowing credit trading by banks.\"We did what we were supposed to do,\" said Merkel, referring to Germany. \"We adopted a decent EU regulation on the national statute books, having listened to the concerns of small businesses... but when it came to it, the Americans said 'that's not for us'.\"\"That's just not on in the international sphere,\" she added. \"It's just not fair competition.\"She said that while for a long time many had said more transparency was unnecessary, now more people were calling for it. \"Things have moved on,\" she said. \"Even America and Britain now want more transparency.\"\"Europe must step in to ensure that we get more transparency on the financial markets, that we get clear rules and that such a crisis that we're now seeing doesn't repeat itself.\"The German government persisted today in its refusal to participate in Washington's proposed bailout package. Anger is rife in Germany that the US-fuelled crisis is likely to severely dent Germany's continued economic recovery after years of downturn.Joachim Poss of the governing coalition partner, the Social Democrats, said: \"The Americans cannot hold Germany responsible for its own failure and arrogance.\"", "tags": ["Market turmoil", "Credit crunch", "Business", "US news", "Germany", "Financial crisis", "Angela Merkel", "Europe"], "title": "Germany slams US over credit crisis failures"},{"date": "2008-09-14T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "With its severed spire and crumbling facades, it has long stood as a reminder of the German downfall in 1945, a reminder to Berliners of how low the city was brought during the second world war. But now the famous Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church - nicknamed the \"Hollow Tooth\" - is facing twin adversaries that could prove more formidable than allied bombers: the Berlin weather and a credit crunch.The clock is ticking for the Ged\u00e4chtniskirche, as it is otherwise known. Officials warn that, unless a fundraising campaign, which has so far proved underwhelming, can be accelerated, the structure could be forced to close early next year.The church is under attack on all fronts. Vibrations from heavy traffic along the Kurf\u00fcrstendamm are shaking its foundations. More seriously, water is seeping into the tower, meaning it will freeze in winter and crack the stone. Fragments may crash down to the street or into the foyer.\"If we have a very strong winter with very intense changes of temperature, there's certain risk,\" said Wolfgang Kuhla, head of the memorial church board. \"We would have to start the renovations to avoid real danger.\" Fundraising started almost a year ago with a \u00a3500 donation from Charles Jeffrey Gray, who flew on British bombing raids over Berlin. In recognition of the building's importance, Berlin's mayor, Klaus Wowereit, recently pledged an additional \u20ac1m from the state-run lottery. But as the credit crunch hits, the money raised has fallen well short of the \u20ac4.1m (\u00a33.3m) the church needs, meaning building work has been postponed until the spring. Built in 1895, the shell of the church attracts more than a million visitors a year. Most of the structure was destroyed in a bombing raid on November 3 1943.", "tags": ["Germany", "Heritage", "Art and design", "World news", "Architecture", "Buildings at risk", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Berlin's 'Hollow Tooth' church may be forced to close, officials warn"},{"date": "2008-09-03T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Speaker rose in a crowded House of Commons today. \"National Registration Emergency Bill,\" he recited, and the Chief Whip said according to the ritual. \"To-morrow,\" which is the Parliamentary device for passing over a measure that it is not desired should be immediately discussed. There was a roll-call of half a dozen such bills, and then the Speaker almost casually called, \"The Prime Minister!\" Just so have sessions of Parliament opened decade after decade, and some have left no imprint at all behind them on their national history; to-day's session belongs to the very few high peaks of our national destiny - the day we went to war to destroy Hitlerism.\"The Prime Minister.\" He had been loudly cheered when he came into the Chamber. He began almost in a whisper. He referred at once to the doubts about the Government's firmness that struck the whole House nearly dumb after his statement last night. There is no need now to go over the anguish that searched every soul in the House last night at the delayed ultimatum.He then told of the ultimatum. There had been no reply from Berlin. \"Consequently,\" he went on in subdued tones, \"this country is now at war with Germany.\" Even Mr Chamberlain's thin voice could not rob those words of the ring of fate.France had also sent an ultimatum with a time-limit. Here was relief, the destruction of the last plaguing doubt. There was a loud burst of cheering.Emotion nearly mastered Mr Chamberlain now. He spoke of this sad day that had brought to ruin \"everything I have worked for and hoped for during my public life.\" There was a murmur of sympathy from the packed benches. He ended with the hope that \"I may live to see the day when Hitlerism has been destroyed,\" to which there was the instant response of a sustained cheer. Mr Greenwood, who so magnificently spoke in those torturing moments last night, spoke even better today. Nothing could have been more admirable than his contrast of last night's \"anger and apprehension\" with \"the relief, composure and resolution\" of today. \"The intolerable agony of suspense is over,\" and a relieved House cheered its agreement with the Deputy Labour Leader.Then Mr Lloyd George rose and the House, remembering only the great leader of the nation in the last war, welcomed him with rounds of cheers. \"I have been through this before,\" he said, shaking his white hair. Suddenly raising his head he told the House in accents that still hold their spell that he himself had always found the country greatest in moments of disaster.", "tags": ["Second world war"], "title": "Britain is now at war with Germany"},{"date": "2008-07-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Bad news from a couple of German insurers sent tremors through their British counterparts yesterday.Reinsurer Munich Re issued a profit warning it blamed on the turmoil in global markets, while smaller rival Hannover Re said if things did not improve it would be hard pushed to meet its financial targets.This soured sentiment in the whole insurance sector. Legal & General finished 7.1p lower at 98.6p, RSA Insurance Group fell 6.5p to 128.8p, Aviva was down 21.5p at 490p, Prudential dropped 20p to 515.5p and Standard Life ended 6.75p lower at 221.25p.A downbeat note from Merrill Lynch before the results season starting next week did not help, nor did news from Lloyd's of London insurer Beazley that first-half profits had fallen by 25% because of the market conditions hitting its investment income.Over at the banks, HBOS ended up 8.75p to 310.25p after reports that JP Morgan was plotting to form a consortium for a break-up bid. But one of the supposed members, National Australia Bank, yesterday unsettled the sector with news of a \u00a3400m write-off associated with its exposure to the US mortgage market. So Royal Bank of Scotland lost 4.25p to 215p and HSBC fell 10p to 828p. But Barclays went the other way, adding 8.5p to 356.5p.Oil shares suffered a volatile day as the crude price first edged higher, then fell back by $2 a barrel to below $124 on continuing concerns about falling demand. Tullow Oil, having been as high as 755p, ended up 2p at 727p. Royal Dutch Shell B shares were also off their best, closing 12p better at \u00a318.02. But gas and oil group BG bounced 40p to \u00a311.08 as Credit Suisse raised its price target from \u00a315.60 to \u00a316.00. The bank said: \"The damp response of BG shares to [Thursday's] results illustrates the desire of markets for earnings upgrades. Indeed our own forecasts do not increase materially (only +3% in 2010). However, earnings are not the only way to add value in the oil sector. BG hit 15 out of 22 exploration targets in the first half of 2008 and we believe BG may have successfully drilled prospects worth up to 11% of its market cap in this period.\"Overall, the market was partly rescued by Wall Street, which was up about 50 points by the time London closed. So after falling as low as 5291.4, the FTSE 100 index slipped 9.7 points to 5352.6. There were contrasting fortunes for the British and US economies. Whereas second-quarter UK economic growth slowed to a three-year low, US new home sales and durable goods numbers came in better than expected. Among the mid-caps David Montgomery's publishing group Mecom - which has been on the slide on worries about its debt levels - jumped 3.75p to 23p after reports it had received an unsolicited bid for its Norwegian business. The division, Edda Media, could fetch around \u00a3375m, analysts believe. But Rentokil slumped 30.75p to 70.75p as it issued its fourth profit warning in eight months. And Britvic lost 18.25p to 237.25p after saying trading conditions were tough and costs were rising. Its Irish business, which incorporates the business bought last year for \u00a3170m from C&C Group, also saw a decline in revenues. Analysts at Citigroup, Britvic's joint broker, said: \"Given uncertainties around the outlook for 2009 from input cost pressures, Great Britain and Irish [pub] trading, we believe short-term upside will be capped.\"But pubs group Mitchells & Butlers added 2.25p to 264.75p as it indicated it had seen a small pick-up in trade over the early months of the summer. Rival Punch Taverns rose 14.5p to 269.5p, also helped by news that hedge fund manager David Einhorn had bought 2m more shares to take his stake to 9.73%.Among the housebuilders, Bellway fell 33.5p to 506p as Panmure Gordon moved from buy to hold. Taylor Wimpey slipped 2.5p to 46p as a report in Building magazine suggested the company may need to raise new cash before it is able to strike a deal with its lenders about waiving banking covenants.Satellite communication group Inmarsat ended 7p higher at 467.5p as 28% shareholder Harbinger, the US hedge fund, unveiled plans to bid for the company, and merge it with its own SkyTerra business. But the deal depends on regulatory approval, and for that reason Harbinger said it could not lay out the exact terms of the proposal. The two sides said this week they had suspended talks because of competition issues, but they were both open to doing a deal.Acambis, best known for its smallpox vaccine, added 1p to 116p. After the market closed the company revealed an agreed \u00a3276m takeover from Sanofi-Aventis, the world's third-largest pharmaceutical company.Finally came late news that Mike Lynch, chief executive of Autonomy, had cashed in more than \u00a38m worth of shares. The technology group, which closed up 12p to \u00a310.61 before the announcement was released, said the sale was to meet capital gains tax liabilities.Watch Consort Medical, which dipped 4p to 531p yesterday. Despite the fall, house broker Investec believes the company, formerly known as Bespak, should benefit from this week's $860m takeover of US rival Vital Signs by GE Healthcare. Investec said: \"Vital Signs is a direct peer to Consort's King division and the multiple paid would value King at \u00a385m. Applying that multiple to the overall group gives a price of 960p. This deal reaffirms our view that corporates are seeing value in the listed medical technology space, and we reiterate our buy recommendation.\"nick.fletcher@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Business"], "title": "Market forces: Insurers shiver in cold winds from Germany"},{"date": "2008-12-12T12:31:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The row between Britain and Germany over the best way to respond to the global recession intensified last night, with the budget spokesman for Angela Merkel's CDU party blaming Gordon Brown for presiding over a \"complete failure\" of economic policy. This followed an attack earlier this week by the German finance minister, who critiqued Brown's fiscal stimulus plan as \"crass Keynesianism\".Hitting back, Brown has blamed \"internal German politics\" on the outbursts. So who is right? Should Brown stop lecturing Germany and listen to what it has to say? Is Brown right to have faith in his economic plan for Britain? Or is this just another example of the divide between Anglo Saxon and European economic models?", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Gordon Brown", "Germany", "Credit crunch", "UK news", "Recession", "Europe"], "title": "Open thread: Gordon Brown has had to defend his economic policy following attacks by the German government. Who is right?"},{"date": "2008-12-12T12:31:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The row between Britain and Germany over the best way to respond to the global recession intensified last night, with the budget spokesman for Angela Merkel's CDU party blaming Gordon Brown for presiding over a \"complete failure\" of economic policy. This followed an attack earlier this week by the German finance minister, who critiqued Brown's fiscal stimulus plan as \"crass Keynesianism\".Hitting back, Brown has blamed \"internal German politics\" on the outbursts. So who is right? Should Brown stop lecturing Germany and listen to what it has to say? Is Brown right to have faith in his economic plan for Britain? Or is this just another example of the divide between Anglo Saxon and European economic models?", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Gordon Brown", "Germany", "Credit crunch", "UK news", "Recession", "Europe"], "title": "Open thread: Gordon Brown has had to defend his economic policy following attacks by the German government. Who is right?"},{"date": "2008-12-12T15:20:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Last week it was reported that Barack Obama had called David Cameron \"lightweight\" after listening to the Tory leader rant against Europe when the two men met in the summer. On Wednesday in Brussels the senior German centre-right politician Hans-Gert P\u00f6ttering was privately blistering about Cameron's anti-EU stance and did not care who was hearing him.Now it is the Tory turn to enjoy a foreign politician attacking Gordon Brown. Peer Steinbr\u00fcck is a doughty regional politician, a kind of rightwing SPD version of John Prescott locked in miserable harness with German conservatives in the barely coherent coalition in power in Berlin.Under Gerhard Schr\u00f6der, the SPD watched in misery as Labour became the new social democratic champion of job creation, growth and real wage increases. German industrial wages and social payments were frozen or cut under Schr\u00f6der's policy to rebuild Germany's industrial capitalism. The policy worked and German exports boomed. But the political price was the SPD losing to Angela Merkel and a powerful new working class party \u2013 Die Linke \u2013 coming into being with up to 15% support in the 2009 elections, according to opinion polls.Under German proportional elections, if their support holds up Die Linke will block any hopes of victory for the SPD. Hence the need to fog-horn away about Anglo-Saxon capitalism. For much of the German left, Britain, Bush, unregulated finance, Iraq and criticisms of Germany's CO2-emitting industrial capitalism are a combined target of choice.In fact, Steinbr\u00fcck has had to bail out German banks and financial institutions that are just as guilty of toxic lending as the City and Wall St. Germany was terrified that at the European Council today the CDU-SPD's defence of German car, chemical and coal industries \u2013 which has led Berlin to backtrack on ambitious EU targets for CO2 emissions \u2013 would be in the firing line.It is very convenient to make headlines about Brown and pander to Tory views that massive cuts in social expenditure are the way out of the crisis. Merkel's principal rival in the CDU is Friedrich Merz. He has called for Brown-style tax cuts, but of course the Daily Mail will not front-page rows inside German politics.Another, more worrying, factor has to be taken into account. The French press this week reported briefings from the Elysee which were scornful of Merkel's refusal to join with Nicolas Sarkozy, the EU Commission, and most EU members as well as the incoming Obama administration in the kind of fiscal, public expenditure and borrowing policy mix Brown has advocated. When Steinbr\u00fcck denounced Brown's \"Keynesianismus\" he was flying in the face of the broad world view that a dose of Keynes, not Tory public spending cuts, is what is required.Sarkozy's public dismissal of Merkel and the arrival of a Brown-Sarkozy axis in EU affairs is deeply unsettling in Germany. It is dangerous politics. Despite the Tory glee at Steinbr\u00fcck's criticism, London should get over to Berlin quickly. In the long run Germany's open-market economics based on a strong social state is closer to Labour than either French rightwing statism and protectionism or the Chicago Friedmanites now taking control of Cameron, who is badly out of his depth on economics.Britain will not profit from a Sarkozy-Merkel quarrel. Obama must be looking in despair (and Putin with pleasure) at a European Union unable to find unity on a core policy and European political leaders criticising each other in public or in open briefings.There is little chance that the London media establishment, which knows no German and remains locked in a tabloidesque second-world-war vision of Germany, will bother to understand or explain the intricacies of German politics. One hint: the German word for debt - \"Schuld\" - also means \"guilt\". Since Luther's day, to be in debt was to be guilty. It may be time for Mr Steinbr\u00fcck, whose English is good, to brush up on his Keynes and forget his Lutheran economics.", "tags": ["European Union", "Gordon Brown", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Germany", "France", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Denis MacShane: Isolating Germany in Europe does Britain no favours"},{"date": "2008-12-12T12:31:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The row between Britain and Germany over the best way to respond to the global recession intensified last night, with the budget spokesman for Angela Merkel's CDU party blaming Gordon Brown for presiding over a \"complete failure\" of economic policy. This followed an attack earlier this week by the German finance minister, who critiqued Brown's fiscal stimulus plan as \"crass Keynesianism\".Hitting back, Brown has blamed \"internal German politics\" on the outbursts. So who is right? Should Brown stop lecturing Germany and listen to what it has to say? Is Brown right to have faith in his economic plan for Britain? Or is this just another example of the divide between Anglo Saxon and European economic models?", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Gordon Brown", "Germany", "Credit crunch", "UK news", "Recession", "Europe"], "title": "Open thread: Gordon Brown has had to defend his economic policy following attacks by the German government. Who is right?"},{"date": "2008-12-12T15:20:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Last week it was reported that Barack Obama had called David Cameron \"lightweight\" after listening to the Tory leader rant against Europe when the two men met in the summer. On Wednesday in Brussels the senior German centre-right politician Hans-Gert P\u00f6ttering was privately blistering about Cameron's anti-EU stance and did not care who was hearing him.Now it is the Tory turn to enjoy a foreign politician attacking Gordon Brown. Peer Steinbr\u00fcck is a doughty regional politician, a kind of rightwing SPD version of John Prescott locked in miserable harness with German conservatives in the barely coherent coalition in power in Berlin.Under Gerhard Schr\u00f6der, the SPD watched in misery as Labour became the new social democratic champion of job creation, growth and real wage increases. German industrial wages and social payments were frozen or cut under Schr\u00f6der's policy to rebuild Germany's industrial capitalism. The policy worked and German exports boomed. But the political price was the SPD losing to Angela Merkel and a powerful new working class party \u2013 Die Linke \u2013 coming into being with up to 15% support in the 2009 elections, according to opinion polls.Under German proportional elections, if their support holds up Die Linke will block any hopes of victory for the SPD. Hence the need to fog-horn away about Anglo-Saxon capitalism. For much of the German left, Britain, Bush, unregulated finance, Iraq and criticisms of Germany's CO2-emitting industrial capitalism are a combined target of choice.In fact, Steinbr\u00fcck has had to bail out German banks and financial institutions that are just as guilty of toxic lending as the City and Wall St. Germany was terrified that at the European Council today the CDU-SPD's defence of German car, chemical and coal industries \u2013 which has led Berlin to backtrack on ambitious EU targets for CO2 emissions \u2013 would be in the firing line.It is very convenient to make headlines about Brown and pander to Tory views that massive cuts in social expenditure are the way out of the crisis. Merkel's principal rival in the CDU is Friedrich Merz. He has called for Brown-style tax cuts, but of course the Daily Mail will not front-page rows inside German politics.Another, more worrying, factor has to be taken into account. The French press this week reported briefings from the Elysee which were scornful of Merkel's refusal to join with Nicolas Sarkozy, the EU Commission, and most EU members as well as the incoming Obama administration in the kind of fiscal, public expenditure and borrowing policy mix Brown has advocated. When Steinbr\u00fcck denounced Brown's \"Keynesianismus\" he was flying in the face of the broad world view that a dose of Keynes, not Tory public spending cuts, is what is required.Sarkozy's public dismissal of Merkel and the arrival of a Brown-Sarkozy axis in EU affairs is deeply unsettling in Germany. It is dangerous politics. Despite the Tory glee at Steinbr\u00fcck's criticism, London should get over to Berlin quickly. In the long run Germany's open-market economics based on a strong social state is closer to Labour than either French rightwing statism and protectionism or the Chicago Friedmanites now taking control of Cameron, who is badly out of his depth on economics.Britain will not profit from a Sarkozy-Merkel quarrel. Obama must be looking in despair (and Putin with pleasure) at a European Union unable to find unity on a core policy and European political leaders criticising each other in public or in open briefings.There is little chance that the London media establishment, which knows no German and remains locked in a tabloidesque second-world-war vision of Germany, will bother to understand or explain the intricacies of German politics. One hint: the German word for debt - \"Schuld\" - also means \"guilt\". Since Luther's day, to be in debt was to be guilty. It may be time for Mr Steinbr\u00fcck, whose English is good, to brush up on his Keynes and forget his Lutheran economics.", "tags": ["European Union", "Gordon Brown", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Germany", "France", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Denis MacShane: Isolating Germany in Europe does Britain no favours"},{"date": "2008-12-03T13:29:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "I was delighted to see that Germany continued to block the insane US effort to speed up the process by which Georgia and the Ukraine could be brought into NATO.This is a terrible idea for numerous reasons, which I outlined in this space during the Russian incursion (or Georgian incursion, or Georgian fake incursion, or whatever precisely it was). The only thing Barack Obama did throughout the whole campaign that I really disliked -- and I recall saying so pretty plainly at the time, for those of you who continue to comment that I think the guy is Jesus and Buddha and Jimi Hendrix rolled into one \u2013 was that he joined in the neocon-led pity party for Georgia and paid lip service to the idea that it and Ukraine should be considered for NATO membership.I continue to be a defiant outlier on the whole question: I think Russia should be groomed for NATO membership. Yes, it's a notorious thugocracy. But, without making the fatal miscalculation that von Hindenburg and von Papen made in January 1933 (they thought they'd tame Hitler by bringing him into the government), I think that the way to bring Russia toward a more democratic posture is to offer to work with it. I don't see that Russia has the power base to disrupt the entire Western alliance too dramatically, and therefore, if enticed with the benefits of NATO membership, it just might open up a little. But, you say, NATO was founded to fight Russia in the first place? It was. But that was then. So just change the nature of NATO. It was a Cold War outfit. Newsflash: the Cold War ended! Now it needs to be a concert of nations dedicated not so much to mutual defense/defence (because that, too, was a Cold War concept, i.e., it was all about warning the Soviets against rolling their tanks into West Germany) but to democratic values and leading the fight against those terrible non-state actors everyone is so concerned about, and against anti-democratic tyranny within its own borders. The points of NATO today ought to be 1) work together to fight terrorists and other non-state baddies, from unified police-type work against cells within member nations to possible military action where necessary, and 2) to prevent the rise of the next Milosevic. It must be updated accordingly.As you can see, if these become the raisons d'etre of NATO, then what's so important about Georgia and Ukraine? Not much. Of course I know that what I'm proposing could happen only after years or decades of bickering in many languages, but I still say it's absurd not to update it. Now that Obama has actually been elected and doesn't have to pander to anti-Russia hard-liners for fear of being attacked on the campaign trail, maybe he can point NATO in some new directions and end this Georgia business.", "tags": ["Nato", "Georgia", "Europe"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Georgia and NATO"},{"date": "2008-12-12T12:31:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The row between Britain and Germany over the best way to respond to the global recession intensified last night, with the budget spokesman for Angela Merkel's CDU party blaming Gordon Brown for presiding over a \"complete failure\" of economic policy. This followed an attack earlier this week by the German finance minister, who critiqued Brown's fiscal stimulus plan as \"crass Keynesianism\".Hitting back, Brown has blamed \"internal German politics\" on the outbursts. So who is right? Should Brown stop lecturing Germany and listen to what it has to say? Is Brown right to have faith in his economic plan for Britain? Or is this just another example of the divide between Anglo Saxon and European economic models?", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Gordon Brown", "Germany", "Credit crunch", "UK news", "Recession", "Europe"], "title": "Open thread: Gordon Brown has had to defend his economic policy following attacks by the German government. Who is right?"},{"date": "2008-12-12T15:20:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Last week it was reported that Barack Obama had called David Cameron \"lightweight\" after listening to the Tory leader rant against Europe when the two men met in the summer. On Wednesday in Brussels the senior German centre-right politician Hans-Gert P\u00f6ttering was privately blistering about Cameron's anti-EU stance and did not care who was hearing him.Now it is the Tory turn to enjoy a foreign politician attacking Gordon Brown. Peer Steinbr\u00fcck is a doughty regional politician, a kind of rightwing SPD version of John Prescott locked in miserable harness with German conservatives in the barely coherent coalition in power in Berlin.Under Gerhard Schr\u00f6der, the SPD watched in misery as Labour became the new social democratic champion of job creation, growth and real wage increases. German industrial wages and social payments were frozen or cut under Schr\u00f6der's policy to rebuild Germany's industrial capitalism. The policy worked and German exports boomed. But the political price was the SPD losing to Angela Merkel and a powerful new working class party \u2013 Die Linke \u2013 coming into being with up to 15% support in the 2009 elections, according to opinion polls.Under German proportional elections, if their support holds up Die Linke will block any hopes of victory for the SPD. Hence the need to fog-horn away about Anglo-Saxon capitalism. For much of the German left, Britain, Bush, unregulated finance, Iraq and criticisms of Germany's CO2-emitting industrial capitalism are a combined target of choice.In fact, Steinbr\u00fcck has had to bail out German banks and financial institutions that are just as guilty of toxic lending as the City and Wall St. Germany was terrified that at the European Council today the CDU-SPD's defence of German car, chemical and coal industries \u2013 which has led Berlin to backtrack on ambitious EU targets for CO2 emissions \u2013 would be in the firing line.It is very convenient to make headlines about Brown and pander to Tory views that massive cuts in social expenditure are the way out of the crisis. Merkel's principal rival in the CDU is Friedrich Merz. He has called for Brown-style tax cuts, but of course the Daily Mail will not front-page rows inside German politics.Another, more worrying, factor has to be taken into account. The French press this week reported briefings from the Elysee which were scornful of Merkel's refusal to join with Nicolas Sarkozy, the EU Commission, and most EU members as well as the incoming Obama administration in the kind of fiscal, public expenditure and borrowing policy mix Brown has advocated. When Steinbr\u00fcck denounced Brown's \"Keynesianismus\" he was flying in the face of the broad world view that a dose of Keynes, not Tory public spending cuts, is what is required.Sarkozy's public dismissal of Merkel and the arrival of a Brown-Sarkozy axis in EU affairs is deeply unsettling in Germany. It is dangerous politics. Despite the Tory glee at Steinbr\u00fcck's criticism, London should get over to Berlin quickly. In the long run Germany's open-market economics based on a strong social state is closer to Labour than either French rightwing statism and protectionism or the Chicago Friedmanites now taking control of Cameron, who is badly out of his depth on economics.Britain will not profit from a Sarkozy-Merkel quarrel. Obama must be looking in despair (and Putin with pleasure) at a European Union unable to find unity on a core policy and European political leaders criticising each other in public or in open briefings.There is little chance that the London media establishment, which knows no German and remains locked in a tabloidesque second-world-war vision of Germany, will bother to understand or explain the intricacies of German politics. One hint: the German word for debt - \"Schuld\" - also means \"guilt\". Since Luther's day, to be in debt was to be guilty. It may be time for Mr Steinbr\u00fcck, whose English is good, to brush up on his Keynes and forget his Lutheran economics.", "tags": ["European Union", "Gordon Brown", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Germany", "France", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Denis MacShane: Isolating Germany in Europe does Britain no favours"},{"date": "2008-12-03T13:29:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "I was delighted to see that Germany continued to block the insane US effort to speed up the process by which Georgia and the Ukraine could be brought into NATO.This is a terrible idea for numerous reasons, which I outlined in this space during the Russian incursion (or Georgian incursion, or Georgian fake incursion, or whatever precisely it was). The only thing Barack Obama did throughout the whole campaign that I really disliked -- and I recall saying so pretty plainly at the time, for those of you who continue to comment that I think the guy is Jesus and Buddha and Jimi Hendrix rolled into one \u2013 was that he joined in the neocon-led pity party for Georgia and paid lip service to the idea that it and Ukraine should be considered for NATO membership.I continue to be a defiant outlier on the whole question: I think Russia should be groomed for NATO membership. Yes, it's a notorious thugocracy. But, without making the fatal miscalculation that von Hindenburg and von Papen made in January 1933 (they thought they'd tame Hitler by bringing him into the government), I think that the way to bring Russia toward a more democratic posture is to offer to work with it. I don't see that Russia has the power base to disrupt the entire Western alliance too dramatically, and therefore, if enticed with the benefits of NATO membership, it just might open up a little. But, you say, NATO was founded to fight Russia in the first place? It was. But that was then. So just change the nature of NATO. It was a Cold War outfit. Newsflash: the Cold War ended! Now it needs to be a concert of nations dedicated not so much to mutual defense/defence (because that, too, was a Cold War concept, i.e., it was all about warning the Soviets against rolling their tanks into West Germany) but to democratic values and leading the fight against those terrible non-state actors everyone is so concerned about, and against anti-democratic tyranny within its own borders. The points of NATO today ought to be 1) work together to fight terrorists and other non-state baddies, from unified police-type work against cells within member nations to possible military action where necessary, and 2) to prevent the rise of the next Milosevic. It must be updated accordingly.As you can see, if these become the raisons d'etre of NATO, then what's so important about Georgia and Ukraine? Not much. Of course I know that what I'm proposing could happen only after years or decades of bickering in many languages, but I still say it's absurd not to update it. Now that Obama has actually been elected and doesn't have to pander to anti-Russia hard-liners for fear of being attacked on the campaign trail, maybe he can point NATO in some new directions and end this Georgia business.", "tags": ["Nato", "Georgia", "Europe"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Georgia and NATO"},{"date": "2008-11-13T09:52:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany officially slid into recession today according to economic data showing that Europe's largest economy shrank in the last quarter.The Federal Statistics Office said GDP contracted 0.5% in the third quarter, following a 0.4% drop in the second, which corresponds to the official definition of a technical recession \u2013 two consecutive reductions in GDP.The third-quarter contraction was much worse than expected. Analysts had predicted around 0.1%, but the slump in world trade has hit Germany, the world's leading exporter, more severely than expected.Germany is the second eurozone country to fall into recession \u2013 its first in five years. Ireland's economy contracted during the first half of the year.\"The downturn is stronger than we expected. The essential message is: we've got it black on white, the recession is here,\" Sebastian Wanke, economist at DekaBank told Spiegel.This morning's news came on top of gloomy predictions by Germany's so-called \"five wise men\", or Council of Economic Experts, who warned yesterday that the economy was on the point of stagnating and that unemployment was set to rise. They criticised government attempts to stall the crisis with a \u20ac12bn (\u00a310bn) stimulus package of tax breaks and investment incentives. The measures include cutting vehicle registration fees, tax breaks for companies investing in their own factories, and incentives to promote energy efficiency. The package is to be presented to the Bundestag for approval today.The five wise men recommended instead a huge public investment programme for Germany's transport system in an attempt to halt the downturn.The German recession is confirmation of the fast switch in its economic fortunes since the start of 2008. Germany has seen exports plunge due to the decrease in demand for industrial goods. As growth splutters, car plants have been forced to send workers on leave for weeks on end. Lower oil prices, lower interest rates and a soft euro mean that there is little hope of a rebound anytime soon. But amid the gloom experts said the domestic front was showing positive developments with growth expected in private and public consumption due to wage rises, a rise in social welfare benefits and a stabilisation of the price of consumer goods. Germany's housing market is not dominant and Germans on the whole have very low levels of personal debt.", "tags": ["Germany", "Business", "World news", "Economics", "Europe"], "title": "Germany slides into recession"},{"date": "2008-12-12T12:31:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The row between Britain and Germany over the best way to respond to the global recession intensified last night, with the budget spokesman for Angela Merkel's CDU party blaming Gordon Brown for presiding over a \"complete failure\" of economic policy. This followed an attack earlier this week by the German finance minister, who critiqued Brown's fiscal stimulus plan as \"crass Keynesianism\".Hitting back, Brown has blamed \"internal German politics\" on the outbursts. So who is right? Should Brown stop lecturing Germany and listen to what it has to say? Is Brown right to have faith in his economic plan for Britain? Or is this just another example of the divide between Anglo Saxon and European economic models?", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Gordon Brown", "Germany", "Credit crunch", "UK news", "Recession", "Europe"], "title": "Open thread: Gordon Brown has had to defend his economic policy following attacks by the German government. Who is right?"},{"date": "2008-12-12T15:20:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Last week it was reported that Barack Obama had called David Cameron \"lightweight\" after listening to the Tory leader rant against Europe when the two men met in the summer. On Wednesday in Brussels the senior German centre-right politician Hans-Gert P\u00f6ttering was privately blistering about Cameron's anti-EU stance and did not care who was hearing him.Now it is the Tory turn to enjoy a foreign politician attacking Gordon Brown. Peer Steinbr\u00fcck is a doughty regional politician, a kind of rightwing SPD version of John Prescott locked in miserable harness with German conservatives in the barely coherent coalition in power in Berlin.Under Gerhard Schr\u00f6der, the SPD watched in misery as Labour became the new social democratic champion of job creation, growth and real wage increases. German industrial wages and social payments were frozen or cut under Schr\u00f6der's policy to rebuild Germany's industrial capitalism. The policy worked and German exports boomed. But the political price was the SPD losing to Angela Merkel and a powerful new working class party \u2013 Die Linke \u2013 coming into being with up to 15% support in the 2009 elections, according to opinion polls.Under German proportional elections, if their support holds up Die Linke will block any hopes of victory for the SPD. Hence the need to fog-horn away about Anglo-Saxon capitalism. For much of the German left, Britain, Bush, unregulated finance, Iraq and criticisms of Germany's CO2-emitting industrial capitalism are a combined target of choice.In fact, Steinbr\u00fcck has had to bail out German banks and financial institutions that are just as guilty of toxic lending as the City and Wall St. Germany was terrified that at the European Council today the CDU-SPD's defence of German car, chemical and coal industries \u2013 which has led Berlin to backtrack on ambitious EU targets for CO2 emissions \u2013 would be in the firing line.It is very convenient to make headlines about Brown and pander to Tory views that massive cuts in social expenditure are the way out of the crisis. Merkel's principal rival in the CDU is Friedrich Merz. He has called for Brown-style tax cuts, but of course the Daily Mail will not front-page rows inside German politics.Another, more worrying, factor has to be taken into account. The French press this week reported briefings from the Elysee which were scornful of Merkel's refusal to join with Nicolas Sarkozy, the EU Commission, and most EU members as well as the incoming Obama administration in the kind of fiscal, public expenditure and borrowing policy mix Brown has advocated. When Steinbr\u00fcck denounced Brown's \"Keynesianismus\" he was flying in the face of the broad world view that a dose of Keynes, not Tory public spending cuts, is what is required.Sarkozy's public dismissal of Merkel and the arrival of a Brown-Sarkozy axis in EU affairs is deeply unsettling in Germany. It is dangerous politics. Despite the Tory glee at Steinbr\u00fcck's criticism, London should get over to Berlin quickly. In the long run Germany's open-market economics based on a strong social state is closer to Labour than either French rightwing statism and protectionism or the Chicago Friedmanites now taking control of Cameron, who is badly out of his depth on economics.Britain will not profit from a Sarkozy-Merkel quarrel. Obama must be looking in despair (and Putin with pleasure) at a European Union unable to find unity on a core policy and European political leaders criticising each other in public or in open briefings.There is little chance that the London media establishment, which knows no German and remains locked in a tabloidesque second-world-war vision of Germany, will bother to understand or explain the intricacies of German politics. One hint: the German word for debt - \"Schuld\" - also means \"guilt\". Since Luther's day, to be in debt was to be guilty. It may be time for Mr Steinbr\u00fcck, whose English is good, to brush up on his Keynes and forget his Lutheran economics.", "tags": ["European Union", "Gordon Brown", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Germany", "France", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Denis MacShane: Isolating Germany in Europe does Britain no favours"},{"date": "2008-12-03T13:29:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "I was delighted to see that Germany continued to block the insane US effort to speed up the process by which Georgia and the Ukraine could be brought into NATO.This is a terrible idea for numerous reasons, which I outlined in this space during the Russian incursion (or Georgian incursion, or Georgian fake incursion, or whatever precisely it was). The only thing Barack Obama did throughout the whole campaign that I really disliked -- and I recall saying so pretty plainly at the time, for those of you who continue to comment that I think the guy is Jesus and Buddha and Jimi Hendrix rolled into one \u2013 was that he joined in the neocon-led pity party for Georgia and paid lip service to the idea that it and Ukraine should be considered for NATO membership.I continue to be a defiant outlier on the whole question: I think Russia should be groomed for NATO membership. Yes, it's a notorious thugocracy. But, without making the fatal miscalculation that von Hindenburg and von Papen made in January 1933 (they thought they'd tame Hitler by bringing him into the government), I think that the way to bring Russia toward a more democratic posture is to offer to work with it. I don't see that Russia has the power base to disrupt the entire Western alliance too dramatically, and therefore, if enticed with the benefits of NATO membership, it just might open up a little. But, you say, NATO was founded to fight Russia in the first place? It was. But that was then. So just change the nature of NATO. It was a Cold War outfit. Newsflash: the Cold War ended! Now it needs to be a concert of nations dedicated not so much to mutual defense/defence (because that, too, was a Cold War concept, i.e., it was all about warning the Soviets against rolling their tanks into West Germany) but to democratic values and leading the fight against those terrible non-state actors everyone is so concerned about, and against anti-democratic tyranny within its own borders. The points of NATO today ought to be 1) work together to fight terrorists and other non-state baddies, from unified police-type work against cells within member nations to possible military action where necessary, and 2) to prevent the rise of the next Milosevic. It must be updated accordingly.As you can see, if these become the raisons d'etre of NATO, then what's so important about Georgia and Ukraine? Not much. Of course I know that what I'm proposing could happen only after years or decades of bickering in many languages, but I still say it's absurd not to update it. Now that Obama has actually been elected and doesn't have to pander to anti-Russia hard-liners for fear of being attacked on the campaign trail, maybe he can point NATO in some new directions and end this Georgia business.", "tags": ["Nato", "Georgia", "Europe"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Georgia and NATO"},{"date": "2008-11-13T09:52:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany officially slid into recession today according to economic data showing that Europe's largest economy shrank in the last quarter.The Federal Statistics Office said GDP contracted 0.5% in the third quarter, following a 0.4% drop in the second, which corresponds to the official definition of a technical recession \u2013 two consecutive reductions in GDP.The third-quarter contraction was much worse than expected. Analysts had predicted around 0.1%, but the slump in world trade has hit Germany, the world's leading exporter, more severely than expected.Germany is the second eurozone country to fall into recession \u2013 its first in five years. Ireland's economy contracted during the first half of the year.\"The downturn is stronger than we expected. The essential message is: we've got it black on white, the recession is here,\" Sebastian Wanke, economist at DekaBank told Spiegel.This morning's news came on top of gloomy predictions by Germany's so-called \"five wise men\", or Council of Economic Experts, who warned yesterday that the economy was on the point of stagnating and that unemployment was set to rise. They criticised government attempts to stall the crisis with a \u20ac12bn (\u00a310bn) stimulus package of tax breaks and investment incentives. The measures include cutting vehicle registration fees, tax breaks for companies investing in their own factories, and incentives to promote energy efficiency. The package is to be presented to the Bundestag for approval today.The five wise men recommended instead a huge public investment programme for Germany's transport system in an attempt to halt the downturn.The German recession is confirmation of the fast switch in its economic fortunes since the start of 2008. Germany has seen exports plunge due to the decrease in demand for industrial goods. As growth splutters, car plants have been forced to send workers on leave for weeks on end. Lower oil prices, lower interest rates and a soft euro mean that there is little hope of a rebound anytime soon. But amid the gloom experts said the domestic front was showing positive developments with growth expected in private and public consumption due to wage rises, a rise in social welfare benefits and a stabilisation of the price of consumer goods. Germany's housing market is not dominant and Germans on the whole have very low levels of personal debt.", "tags": ["Germany", "Business", "World news", "Economics", "Europe"], "title": "Germany slides into recession"},{"date": "2008-11-13T08:08:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has fallen into recession for the first time in five years.Europe's largest economy shrunk by 0.5% in the third quarter of 2008 after suffering a sharp fall in exports. It had already contracted by 0.4% between April and June.The Federal Statistics Office blamed the downturn on \"a strong increase in imports and weakening exports\" during the summer.Analysts had expected the German economy to shrink by 0.2% between July and September. The last time that the county suffered two consecutive quarters of negative growth \u2013 the usual definition of recession \u2013 was the second half of 2003. But this time the contraction is more severeGermany is the second member of the eurozone to fall into recession, following Ireland, whose economy contracted through the first half of the year.", "tags": ["Germany", "Global economy", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Germany moves into recession"},{"date": "2008-12-12T12:31:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The row between Britain and Germany over the best way to respond to the global recession intensified last night, with the budget spokesman for Angela Merkel's CDU party blaming Gordon Brown for presiding over a \"complete failure\" of economic policy. This followed an attack earlier this week by the German finance minister, who critiqued Brown's fiscal stimulus plan as \"crass Keynesianism\".Hitting back, Brown has blamed \"internal German politics\" on the outbursts. So who is right? Should Brown stop lecturing Germany and listen to what it has to say? Is Brown right to have faith in his economic plan for Britain? Or is this just another example of the divide between Anglo Saxon and European economic models?", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Gordon Brown", "Germany", "Credit crunch", "UK news", "Recession", "Europe"], "title": "Open thread: Gordon Brown has had to defend his economic policy following attacks by the German government. Who is right?"},{"date": "2008-12-12T15:20:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Last week it was reported that Barack Obama had called David Cameron \"lightweight\" after listening to the Tory leader rant against Europe when the two men met in the summer. On Wednesday in Brussels the senior German centre-right politician Hans-Gert P\u00f6ttering was privately blistering about Cameron's anti-EU stance and did not care who was hearing him.Now it is the Tory turn to enjoy a foreign politician attacking Gordon Brown. Peer Steinbr\u00fcck is a doughty regional politician, a kind of rightwing SPD version of John Prescott locked in miserable harness with German conservatives in the barely coherent coalition in power in Berlin.Under Gerhard Schr\u00f6der, the SPD watched in misery as Labour became the new social democratic champion of job creation, growth and real wage increases. German industrial wages and social payments were frozen or cut under Schr\u00f6der's policy to rebuild Germany's industrial capitalism. The policy worked and German exports boomed. But the political price was the SPD losing to Angela Merkel and a powerful new working class party \u2013 Die Linke \u2013 coming into being with up to 15% support in the 2009 elections, according to opinion polls.Under German proportional elections, if their support holds up Die Linke will block any hopes of victory for the SPD. Hence the need to fog-horn away about Anglo-Saxon capitalism. For much of the German left, Britain, Bush, unregulated finance, Iraq and criticisms of Germany's CO2-emitting industrial capitalism are a combined target of choice.In fact, Steinbr\u00fcck has had to bail out German banks and financial institutions that are just as guilty of toxic lending as the City and Wall St. Germany was terrified that at the European Council today the CDU-SPD's defence of German car, chemical and coal industries \u2013 which has led Berlin to backtrack on ambitious EU targets for CO2 emissions \u2013 would be in the firing line.It is very convenient to make headlines about Brown and pander to Tory views that massive cuts in social expenditure are the way out of the crisis. Merkel's principal rival in the CDU is Friedrich Merz. He has called for Brown-style tax cuts, but of course the Daily Mail will not front-page rows inside German politics.Another, more worrying, factor has to be taken into account. The French press this week reported briefings from the Elysee which were scornful of Merkel's refusal to join with Nicolas Sarkozy, the EU Commission, and most EU members as well as the incoming Obama administration in the kind of fiscal, public expenditure and borrowing policy mix Brown has advocated. When Steinbr\u00fcck denounced Brown's \"Keynesianismus\" he was flying in the face of the broad world view that a dose of Keynes, not Tory public spending cuts, is what is required.Sarkozy's public dismissal of Merkel and the arrival of a Brown-Sarkozy axis in EU affairs is deeply unsettling in Germany. It is dangerous politics. Despite the Tory glee at Steinbr\u00fcck's criticism, London should get over to Berlin quickly. In the long run Germany's open-market economics based on a strong social state is closer to Labour than either French rightwing statism and protectionism or the Chicago Friedmanites now taking control of Cameron, who is badly out of his depth on economics.Britain will not profit from a Sarkozy-Merkel quarrel. Obama must be looking in despair (and Putin with pleasure) at a European Union unable to find unity on a core policy and European political leaders criticising each other in public or in open briefings.There is little chance that the London media establishment, which knows no German and remains locked in a tabloidesque second-world-war vision of Germany, will bother to understand or explain the intricacies of German politics. One hint: the German word for debt - \"Schuld\" - also means \"guilt\". Since Luther's day, to be in debt was to be guilty. It may be time for Mr Steinbr\u00fcck, whose English is good, to brush up on his Keynes and forget his Lutheran economics.", "tags": ["European Union", "Gordon Brown", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Germany", "France", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Denis MacShane: Isolating Germany in Europe does Britain no favours"},{"date": "2008-12-03T13:29:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "I was delighted to see that Germany continued to block the insane US effort to speed up the process by which Georgia and the Ukraine could be brought into NATO.This is a terrible idea for numerous reasons, which I outlined in this space during the Russian incursion (or Georgian incursion, or Georgian fake incursion, or whatever precisely it was). The only thing Barack Obama did throughout the whole campaign that I really disliked -- and I recall saying so pretty plainly at the time, for those of you who continue to comment that I think the guy is Jesus and Buddha and Jimi Hendrix rolled into one \u2013 was that he joined in the neocon-led pity party for Georgia and paid lip service to the idea that it and Ukraine should be considered for NATO membership.I continue to be a defiant outlier on the whole question: I think Russia should be groomed for NATO membership. Yes, it's a notorious thugocracy. But, without making the fatal miscalculation that von Hindenburg and von Papen made in January 1933 (they thought they'd tame Hitler by bringing him into the government), I think that the way to bring Russia toward a more democratic posture is to offer to work with it. I don't see that Russia has the power base to disrupt the entire Western alliance too dramatically, and therefore, if enticed with the benefits of NATO membership, it just might open up a little. But, you say, NATO was founded to fight Russia in the first place? It was. But that was then. So just change the nature of NATO. It was a Cold War outfit. Newsflash: the Cold War ended! Now it needs to be a concert of nations dedicated not so much to mutual defense/defence (because that, too, was a Cold War concept, i.e., it was all about warning the Soviets against rolling their tanks into West Germany) but to democratic values and leading the fight against those terrible non-state actors everyone is so concerned about, and against anti-democratic tyranny within its own borders. The points of NATO today ought to be 1) work together to fight terrorists and other non-state baddies, from unified police-type work against cells within member nations to possible military action where necessary, and 2) to prevent the rise of the next Milosevic. It must be updated accordingly.As you can see, if these become the raisons d'etre of NATO, then what's so important about Georgia and Ukraine? Not much. Of course I know that what I'm proposing could happen only after years or decades of bickering in many languages, but I still say it's absurd not to update it. Now that Obama has actually been elected and doesn't have to pander to anti-Russia hard-liners for fear of being attacked on the campaign trail, maybe he can point NATO in some new directions and end this Georgia business.", "tags": ["Nato", "Georgia", "Europe"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Georgia and NATO"},{"date": "2008-11-13T09:52:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany officially slid into recession today according to economic data showing that Europe's largest economy shrank in the last quarter.The Federal Statistics Office said GDP contracted 0.5% in the third quarter, following a 0.4% drop in the second, which corresponds to the official definition of a technical recession \u2013 two consecutive reductions in GDP.The third-quarter contraction was much worse than expected. Analysts had predicted around 0.1%, but the slump in world trade has hit Germany, the world's leading exporter, more severely than expected.Germany is the second eurozone country to fall into recession \u2013 its first in five years. Ireland's economy contracted during the first half of the year.\"The downturn is stronger than we expected. The essential message is: we've got it black on white, the recession is here,\" Sebastian Wanke, economist at DekaBank told Spiegel.This morning's news came on top of gloomy predictions by Germany's so-called \"five wise men\", or Council of Economic Experts, who warned yesterday that the economy was on the point of stagnating and that unemployment was set to rise. They criticised government attempts to stall the crisis with a \u20ac12bn (\u00a310bn) stimulus package of tax breaks and investment incentives. The measures include cutting vehicle registration fees, tax breaks for companies investing in their own factories, and incentives to promote energy efficiency. The package is to be presented to the Bundestag for approval today.The five wise men recommended instead a huge public investment programme for Germany's transport system in an attempt to halt the downturn.The German recession is confirmation of the fast switch in its economic fortunes since the start of 2008. Germany has seen exports plunge due to the decrease in demand for industrial goods. As growth splutters, car plants have been forced to send workers on leave for weeks on end. Lower oil prices, lower interest rates and a soft euro mean that there is little hope of a rebound anytime soon. But amid the gloom experts said the domestic front was showing positive developments with growth expected in private and public consumption due to wage rises, a rise in social welfare benefits and a stabilisation of the price of consumer goods. Germany's housing market is not dominant and Germans on the whole have very low levels of personal debt.", "tags": ["Germany", "Business", "World news", "Economics", "Europe"], "title": "Germany slides into recession"},{"date": "2008-11-13T08:08:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has fallen into recession for the first time in five years.Europe's largest economy shrunk by 0.5% in the third quarter of 2008 after suffering a sharp fall in exports. It had already contracted by 0.4% between April and June.The Federal Statistics Office blamed the downturn on \"a strong increase in imports and weakening exports\" during the summer.Analysts had expected the German economy to shrink by 0.2% between July and September. The last time that the county suffered two consecutive quarters of negative growth \u2013 the usual definition of recession \u2013 was the second half of 2003. But this time the contraction is more severeGermany is the second member of the eurozone to fall into recession, following Ireland, whose economy contracted through the first half of the year.", "tags": ["Germany", "Global economy", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Germany moves into recession"},{"date": "2008-12-12T13:50:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "So much for the Europeans leading the way on climate change. Even as our governments claim they want to drag the world into an effective climate agreement in Poznan, they have just pulled Europe out of one in Brussels.  The agreement they have just reached is a disaster. The 20% carbon cut they promise by 2020 falls miles short of what's needed, and they'll be able to buy most of it from abroad anyway. All this means, in a world which has to eliminate most of its carbon pollution, is that other countries, which have sold their easiest reductions to us, will then find it harder to make emissions cuts of their own. It's carbon colonialism, in which Europe picks the low-hanging fruit in developing countries, leaving them with much tougher choices later on.  European governments have also junked their commitment to turn the Emissions Trading Scheme into a fair and effective way of cutting pollution. At the moment over 90% of the licences to produce CO2 are given away to the biggest polluters. Some of these companies have made billions by passing on the nominal costs of the licences to their customers, even though they didn't have to pay anything themselves. It's a perfect inversion of environmental justice: under the ETS, the polluter gets paid. Those who have produced the most pollution get the biggest rewards.  The EU promised that by 2020 all emissions permits would be sold at auction to the polluting industries. Now the heads of government have broken that promise: in 2020, big industrial polluters will have to pay for only 70% of the harm they do. Worse, companies will receive all their allowances for nothing if they can show that they're threatened by competition from firms outside the EU. As it's hard to think of any European sector which doesn't have competitors abroad, this concession appears to sink the sale of permits to industrial polluters altogether.  Who has pushed hardest for these exemptions? The great green German chancellor Angela Merkel. The British government's environmental policies are wildly contradictory, but they look almost coherent by comparison to Germany's. In some respects it's the most progressive country in the EU, with a federal scheme to insulate the entire housing stock and an investment in wind power which puts the UK (with far greater wind resources) to shame. In other respects it has become the dirty man of Europe. It was Merkel who demanded weaker standards for fuel efficiency in cars, Merkel who pushed hardest for a \u20ac40bn bail-out of the motor manufacturers, Merkel who now insists that the big cement, steel and chemicals companies are allowed to get away without paying.  How can these contradictions be explained? Rather like our own government, Merkel's administration is prepared to support only those measures which don't hurt big business. It pours billions of euros into useless schemes which generate corporate revenue (such as the half million solar roofs it has paid for so far, which contribute a grand total of 0.4% of Germany's electricity supply) and opposes effective schemes which would clobber carbon emissions but hurt corporate profits. The German government is prepared to go green only when it costs corporations nothing.  Shame on you, Mrs Merkel. With the help of Donald Tusk, Silvio Berlusconi and one or two other Neanderthals, you have now messed it up for everyone.", "tags": ["Green politics", "Politics", "Environment", "Poznan climate change conference", "Angela Merkel", "Global climate talks"], "title": "George Monbiot: Germany is the new dirty man of Europe"},{"date": "2008-12-12T12:31:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The row between Britain and Germany over the best way to respond to the global recession intensified last night, with the budget spokesman for Angela Merkel's CDU party blaming Gordon Brown for presiding over a \"complete failure\" of economic policy. This followed an attack earlier this week by the German finance minister, who critiqued Brown's fiscal stimulus plan as \"crass Keynesianism\".Hitting back, Brown has blamed \"internal German politics\" on the outbursts. So who is right? Should Brown stop lecturing Germany and listen to what it has to say? Is Brown right to have faith in his economic plan for Britain? Or is this just another example of the divide between Anglo Saxon and European economic models?", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Gordon Brown", "Germany", "Credit crunch", "UK news", "Recession", "Europe"], "title": "Open thread: Gordon Brown has had to defend his economic policy following attacks by the German government. Who is right?"},{"date": "2008-12-12T15:20:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Last week it was reported that Barack Obama had called David Cameron \"lightweight\" after listening to the Tory leader rant against Europe when the two men met in the summer. On Wednesday in Brussels the senior German centre-right politician Hans-Gert P\u00f6ttering was privately blistering about Cameron's anti-EU stance and did not care who was hearing him.Now it is the Tory turn to enjoy a foreign politician attacking Gordon Brown. Peer Steinbr\u00fcck is a doughty regional politician, a kind of rightwing SPD version of John Prescott locked in miserable harness with German conservatives in the barely coherent coalition in power in Berlin.Under Gerhard Schr\u00f6der, the SPD watched in misery as Labour became the new social democratic champion of job creation, growth and real wage increases. German industrial wages and social payments were frozen or cut under Schr\u00f6der's policy to rebuild Germany's industrial capitalism. The policy worked and German exports boomed. But the political price was the SPD losing to Angela Merkel and a powerful new working class party \u2013 Die Linke \u2013 coming into being with up to 15% support in the 2009 elections, according to opinion polls.Under German proportional elections, if their support holds up Die Linke will block any hopes of victory for the SPD. Hence the need to fog-horn away about Anglo-Saxon capitalism. For much of the German left, Britain, Bush, unregulated finance, Iraq and criticisms of Germany's CO2-emitting industrial capitalism are a combined target of choice.In fact, Steinbr\u00fcck has had to bail out German banks and financial institutions that are just as guilty of toxic lending as the City and Wall St. Germany was terrified that at the European Council today the CDU-SPD's defence of German car, chemical and coal industries \u2013 which has led Berlin to backtrack on ambitious EU targets for CO2 emissions \u2013 would be in the firing line.It is very convenient to make headlines about Brown and pander to Tory views that massive cuts in social expenditure are the way out of the crisis. Merkel's principal rival in the CDU is Friedrich Merz. He has called for Brown-style tax cuts, but of course the Daily Mail will not front-page rows inside German politics.Another, more worrying, factor has to be taken into account. The French press this week reported briefings from the Elysee which were scornful of Merkel's refusal to join with Nicolas Sarkozy, the EU Commission, and most EU members as well as the incoming Obama administration in the kind of fiscal, public expenditure and borrowing policy mix Brown has advocated. When Steinbr\u00fcck denounced Brown's \"Keynesianismus\" he was flying in the face of the broad world view that a dose of Keynes, not Tory public spending cuts, is what is required.Sarkozy's public dismissal of Merkel and the arrival of a Brown-Sarkozy axis in EU affairs is deeply unsettling in Germany. It is dangerous politics. Despite the Tory glee at Steinbr\u00fcck's criticism, London should get over to Berlin quickly. In the long run Germany's open-market economics based on a strong social state is closer to Labour than either French rightwing statism and protectionism or the Chicago Friedmanites now taking control of Cameron, who is badly out of his depth on economics.Britain will not profit from a Sarkozy-Merkel quarrel. Obama must be looking in despair (and Putin with pleasure) at a European Union unable to find unity on a core policy and European political leaders criticising each other in public or in open briefings.There is little chance that the London media establishment, which knows no German and remains locked in a tabloidesque second-world-war vision of Germany, will bother to understand or explain the intricacies of German politics. One hint: the German word for debt - \"Schuld\" - also means \"guilt\". Since Luther's day, to be in debt was to be guilty. It may be time for Mr Steinbr\u00fcck, whose English is good, to brush up on his Keynes and forget his Lutheran economics.", "tags": ["European Union", "Gordon Brown", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Germany", "France", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Denis MacShane: Isolating Germany in Europe does Britain no favours"},{"date": "2008-12-03T13:29:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "I was delighted to see that Germany continued to block the insane US effort to speed up the process by which Georgia and the Ukraine could be brought into NATO.This is a terrible idea for numerous reasons, which I outlined in this space during the Russian incursion (or Georgian incursion, or Georgian fake incursion, or whatever precisely it was). The only thing Barack Obama did throughout the whole campaign that I really disliked -- and I recall saying so pretty plainly at the time, for those of you who continue to comment that I think the guy is Jesus and Buddha and Jimi Hendrix rolled into one \u2013 was that he joined in the neocon-led pity party for Georgia and paid lip service to the idea that it and Ukraine should be considered for NATO membership.I continue to be a defiant outlier on the whole question: I think Russia should be groomed for NATO membership. Yes, it's a notorious thugocracy. But, without making the fatal miscalculation that von Hindenburg and von Papen made in January 1933 (they thought they'd tame Hitler by bringing him into the government), I think that the way to bring Russia toward a more democratic posture is to offer to work with it. I don't see that Russia has the power base to disrupt the entire Western alliance too dramatically, and therefore, if enticed with the benefits of NATO membership, it just might open up a little. But, you say, NATO was founded to fight Russia in the first place? It was. But that was then. So just change the nature of NATO. It was a Cold War outfit. Newsflash: the Cold War ended! Now it needs to be a concert of nations dedicated not so much to mutual defense/defence (because that, too, was a Cold War concept, i.e., it was all about warning the Soviets against rolling their tanks into West Germany) but to democratic values and leading the fight against those terrible non-state actors everyone is so concerned about, and against anti-democratic tyranny within its own borders. The points of NATO today ought to be 1) work together to fight terrorists and other non-state baddies, from unified police-type work against cells within member nations to possible military action where necessary, and 2) to prevent the rise of the next Milosevic. It must be updated accordingly.As you can see, if these become the raisons d'etre of NATO, then what's so important about Georgia and Ukraine? Not much. Of course I know that what I'm proposing could happen only after years or decades of bickering in many languages, but I still say it's absurd not to update it. Now that Obama has actually been elected and doesn't have to pander to anti-Russia hard-liners for fear of being attacked on the campaign trail, maybe he can point NATO in some new directions and end this Georgia business.", "tags": ["Nato", "Georgia", "Europe"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: Georgia and NATO"},{"date": "2008-11-13T09:52:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany officially slid into recession today according to economic data showing that Europe's largest economy shrank in the last quarter.The Federal Statistics Office said GDP contracted 0.5% in the third quarter, following a 0.4% drop in the second, which corresponds to the official definition of a technical recession \u2013 two consecutive reductions in GDP.The third-quarter contraction was much worse than expected. Analysts had predicted around 0.1%, but the slump in world trade has hit Germany, the world's leading exporter, more severely than expected.Germany is the second eurozone country to fall into recession \u2013 its first in five years. Ireland's economy contracted during the first half of the year.\"The downturn is stronger than we expected. The essential message is: we've got it black on white, the recession is here,\" Sebastian Wanke, economist at DekaBank told Spiegel.This morning's news came on top of gloomy predictions by Germany's so-called \"five wise men\", or Council of Economic Experts, who warned yesterday that the economy was on the point of stagnating and that unemployment was set to rise. They criticised government attempts to stall the crisis with a \u20ac12bn (\u00a310bn) stimulus package of tax breaks and investment incentives. The measures include cutting vehicle registration fees, tax breaks for companies investing in their own factories, and incentives to promote energy efficiency. The package is to be presented to the Bundestag for approval today.The five wise men recommended instead a huge public investment programme for Germany's transport system in an attempt to halt the downturn.The German recession is confirmation of the fast switch in its economic fortunes since the start of 2008. Germany has seen exports plunge due to the decrease in demand for industrial goods. As growth splutters, car plants have been forced to send workers on leave for weeks on end. Lower oil prices, lower interest rates and a soft euro mean that there is little hope of a rebound anytime soon. But amid the gloom experts said the domestic front was showing positive developments with growth expected in private and public consumption due to wage rises, a rise in social welfare benefits and a stabilisation of the price of consumer goods. Germany's housing market is not dominant and Germans on the whole have very low levels of personal debt.", "tags": ["Germany", "Business", "World news", "Economics", "Europe"], "title": "Germany slides into recession"},{"date": "2008-11-13T08:08:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has fallen into recession for the first time in five years.Europe's largest economy shrunk by 0.5% in the third quarter of 2008 after suffering a sharp fall in exports. It had already contracted by 0.4% between April and June.The Federal Statistics Office blamed the downturn on \"a strong increase in imports and weakening exports\" during the summer.Analysts had expected the German economy to shrink by 0.2% between July and September. The last time that the county suffered two consecutive quarters of negative growth \u2013 the usual definition of recession \u2013 was the second half of 2003. But this time the contraction is more severeGermany is the second member of the eurozone to fall into recession, following Ireland, whose economy contracted through the first half of the year.", "tags": ["Germany", "Global economy", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Germany moves into recession"},{"date": "2008-12-12T13:50:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "So much for the Europeans leading the way on climate change. Even as our governments claim they want to drag the world into an effective climate agreement in Poznan, they have just pulled Europe out of one in Brussels.  The agreement they have just reached is a disaster. The 20% carbon cut they promise by 2020 falls miles short of what's needed, and they'll be able to buy most of it from abroad anyway. All this means, in a world which has to eliminate most of its carbon pollution, is that other countries, which have sold their easiest reductions to us, will then find it harder to make emissions cuts of their own. It's carbon colonialism, in which Europe picks the low-hanging fruit in developing countries, leaving them with much tougher choices later on.  European governments have also junked their commitment to turn the Emissions Trading Scheme into a fair and effective way of cutting pollution. At the moment over 90% of the licences to produce CO2 are given away to the biggest polluters. Some of these companies have made billions by passing on the nominal costs of the licences to their customers, even though they didn't have to pay anything themselves. It's a perfect inversion of environmental justice: under the ETS, the polluter gets paid. Those who have produced the most pollution get the biggest rewards.  The EU promised that by 2020 all emissions permits would be sold at auction to the polluting industries. Now the heads of government have broken that promise: in 2020, big industrial polluters will have to pay for only 70% of the harm they do. Worse, companies will receive all their allowances for nothing if they can show that they're threatened by competition from firms outside the EU. As it's hard to think of any European sector which doesn't have competitors abroad, this concession appears to sink the sale of permits to industrial polluters altogether.  Who has pushed hardest for these exemptions? The great green German chancellor Angela Merkel. The British government's environmental policies are wildly contradictory, but they look almost coherent by comparison to Germany's. In some respects it's the most progressive country in the EU, with a federal scheme to insulate the entire housing stock and an investment in wind power which puts the UK (with far greater wind resources) to shame. In other respects it has become the dirty man of Europe. It was Merkel who demanded weaker standards for fuel efficiency in cars, Merkel who pushed hardest for a \u20ac40bn bail-out of the motor manufacturers, Merkel who now insists that the big cement, steel and chemicals companies are allowed to get away without paying.  How can these contradictions be explained? Rather like our own government, Merkel's administration is prepared to support only those measures which don't hurt big business. It pours billions of euros into useless schemes which generate corporate revenue (such as the half million solar roofs it has paid for so far, which contribute a grand total of 0.4% of Germany's electricity supply) and opposes effective schemes which would clobber carbon emissions but hurt corporate profits. The German government is prepared to go green only when it costs corporations nothing.  Shame on you, Mrs Merkel. With the help of Donald Tusk, Silvio Berlusconi and one or two other Neanderthals, you have now messed it up for everyone.", "tags": ["Green politics", "Politics", "Environment", "Poznan climate change conference", "Angela Merkel", "Global climate talks"], "title": "George Monbiot: Germany is the new dirty man of Europe"},{"date": "2008-12-12T00:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Gordon Brown would prefer Europe not to exist. If he had his way, politics would be played out in Britain, the transatlantic relationship and - his current unfortunate conceit - the world. These are the chosen stages, real or delusional, on which our prime minister moves with assurance and a politically dangerous degree of hubris.Europe, for him, is a sideshow by comparison, a distraction and worse, because in his mind it brings only penalties, not rewards. Not only would Brown prefer not to think about Europe; he would also prefer us to pretend that he does not think about it.Yet think about it he must. The events of the week remind both us and him of the extent to which this Europe-free vision is a piece of political escapism. As the economic crisis begins to settle into a way of life rather than an adrenalin rush, Europe is emerging through the fog as the international forum in which Britain's economic fate - and Brown's political fate - will be most decisively shaped in 2009. With the pound falling to parity with the euro and an emerging strategic division between Britain and Germany, the events that matter are Brown's Merkel-less talks with Barroso and Sarkozy in Downing Street, yesterday's economic summit in Brussels and the climate change talks in Poznan. Compared with these, the rest is grandstanding.These are defining times not just for Europe's economies but also for the shape, if any, of the European project that the next generation will inherit. This is fact, not opinion. Regardless of whether they are members of the eurozone or even of the EU, the simple reality is that unless Europe's national economies coordinate their responses to the global downturn, they risk inflicting serious collective self-harm. The degree of Europe's economic, political and legal integration is now so great, the mutual dependence as trade partners so profound, and the collective European share of the global economy so large, that European agreement is as vital in the current emergency as disagreement would be destructive.This is the far-from-ideal context in which events such as this week's serious divisions with Germany, and the prospective second Irish referendum, should be understood. We live in the Europe we have made for ourselves, not in the Europe that we would like (or, in Brown's case, would not like) to inhabit. Midway through his life-enhancing West End stand-up show about the history of everything, Eddie Izzard says something that illuminates why this matters. He tells his audience that human beings never really needed the Ten Commandments in the first place. Actually, we only needed one commandment - to do as you would be done by; and perhaps a second - to remember that what goes around comes around. The controversial Newsweek interview with the German finance minister Peer Steinbr\u00fcck exemplifies how, in politics, what goes around always comes around. In the interview, Steinbr\u00fcck laments the \"breathtaking\" policy switch that some governments, including Brown's, have made \"from decades of supply-side politics all the way to a crass Keynesianism\". His exasperation calls to mind the old Communist jibe against errant comrades who were only ever on the party line while they were crossing it from right to left and back again. What is needed instead is \"a little steadiness and continuity\", says the man who is, lest we forget and, pace Alistair Darling, the single most important finance minister in Europe. Ordinarily that would be right and, even in today's circumstances, Steinbr\u00fcck has a point. After all, it's not the German economic and social model that has suddenly come apart at the seams, but ours. I'm aware that those of us who like and admire Germany need to be specially vigilant to also bear witness to Germany's failings and limitations - which not only exist but have been inadequately addressed by successive German governments. Nevertheless, Germans have not run up the unsustainable levels of personal debt that the British have. Germans have not financed their wealth on a house-price bubble and cheap lending, as we have. Germans save their money and they base their economy on industrial manufacturing and exports, in which we lag behind. Not surprisingly, it is to German taxpayers that Europe's more feckless governments, like Italy, are now turning to bail them out of their difficulties.And when Brown and the other critics point to Germany's much higher level of structural unemployment than ours, with the implication that Britain has been more dynamic in getting its citizens off welfare and into work, let them also remember that only Germany has had to absorb an economically shattered country - the old East Germany - into its borders. If Britain had been faced with 16 million new East British citizens over the past 20 years, the Brown boom might not have been as large as it was, or have lasted as long as it did.Steinbr\u00fcck is even right to suggest that some of the apocalyptic talk may be exaggerated and to imply that politicians like Brown are pandering to a yearning for a \"Great Rescue Plan\". His social democrat colleague Gesine Schwan is also right, in a fascinating piece on Comment is Free this week, that balanced budgets matter and that the state can easily stifle as well as protect. Yet Steinbr\u00fcck and Schwan must also accept both that fiscal expansion is the crucial, perhaps the only, weapon in governments' hands right now and that, on the European level, fiscal expansion that is not coordinated is likely to fail.It must be hard for Germans to take lectures from Brown. For more than 11 years he has descended on continental Europe for brief visits - always luridly well-trailed in the Daily Mail and the Sun - in which he has lost no opportunity to lecture Germany from the free-market right about the shortcomings of its social market economic model. Now, with no word of apology, he is lecturing them again, this time from the diametrically opposite statist left. Not surprisingly, the Germans don't like it. Yet the times will not tolerate the trading of insults. They demand the trading of goods and of money. That is why Brown, for all his autocratic ways, is more wrong than right and why Steinbr\u00fcck, for all his wise caveats, is the opposite. Nothing in European politics is ever ideal, but both in this crisis and in the development of whatever EU emerges from it, it would be far better for Britain and Germany to learn to work together, not against each other.martin.kettle@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Germany", "European Union", "Gordon Brown", "Global economy", "Global recession", "Business", "World news", "Economic policy", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Europe"], "title": "Martin Kettle: Stop lecturing Germany, Gordon. Steinbr\u00fcck is right"},{"date": "2009-01-10T00:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "In the film Valkyrie, Tom Cruise plays Colonel Claus Schenk von Stauffenberg, the man who, on 20 July 1944, placed a bomb next to Hitler in his east Prussian headquarters, the Wolf's Lair. The bomb failed to kill Hitler, merely blowing his trousers to ribbons. That night, when the coup was seen to have failed, Stauffenberg was shot in the courtyard of the army headquarters in Berlin on the orders of General Fromm, his superior, who was in on the plot and hoped - in vain - to save himself. Sandbags were piled in the courtyard and the lights of staff cars illuminated the victims. Von Haeften, his aide, threw himself in front of Stauffenberg. He and two others were also shot that night and their bodies quickly buried. Stauffenberg died with the words \"Long live our sacred Germany\" on his lips, or perhaps - some heard - \"Long live our secret Germany\". In German, there is even less difference between the words \"sacred\" and \"secret\" than there is in English.The producers of Valkyrie have muffled his last words; the story behind secret Germany does not figure in their script, but they were clearly aware of its significance. Within a few weeks, 80 plotters had been executed in Pl\u00f6tzensee prison by slow strangulation, hung from meathooks; in all, at least 3,000 were killed and many children, including Stauffenberg's, were taken from their families and placed in orphanages. Many of those executed were from Germany's most distinguished families, people who, like Stauffenberg, were appalled by the direction Germany had taken, both in relation to the Jews and to the disastrous war in the east.The film is true to most of the facts of the plot, but fails to convey any sense of the catastrophic moral and political vortex into which Germans were being drawn. Nor does it give much sense of the immense charisma of Stauffenberg, to whom generals and politicians deferred and who had for some time been tipped as a future chief of staff. A revealing private memoir I was given, which describes a visit shortly before the bomb plot by Stauffenberg to one of the other resister's houses, suggests that the female staff were sent into paroxysms of adoration by the wounded hero. And the film gives no indication at all of Stauffenberg's background and philosophy: he fitted perfectly into the German tradition of Dichter und Helden, poets and heroes. For a start, he looked the part, tall with classical features; he was often compared to a medieval statue of a knight in the cathedral at Bamberg, his home town, and his wedding in this cathedral in 1933 to Nina von Lerchenfeld was a huge social event. Even Hitler believed that Stauffenberg was the embodiment of a German hero.So when the generals failed in their plots against Hitler - there were as many as 15 of them - someone was needed to head the disparate but substantial resistance, which extended from the army into the Foreign Office, the secret services and to important clerics and trade unionists. Stauffenberg was persuaded by his uncle, Nikolaus Graf von \u00dcxk\u00fcll, long disenchanted with the Nazis, that he should lead the movement. It seemed that he was the man who unmistakably wore the mantle of a near-mystic German past, a warrior Germany, a noble Germany, a poetic Germany, a Germany of myth and longing.There is nothing in the script or in Cruise's performance that explores these particularly German preoccupations. At times Cruise looks and sounds like the troublesome cop who has been given a tricky assignment, with 24 hours to get the bad guy before he has to hand in his badge: the assassination attempt is treated as a thriller. It lacks the intelligent understanding that Florian von Donnersmarck brought to The Lives of Others (2006), as people from different backgrounds, and with wildly different ideas of what Germany should become, tried to work together. Stauffenberg's stroke of genius was to subvert the emergency plan for defending Berlin against insurrection, Valkyrie, into a plan for a putsch after Hitler had been killed. As Hitler became more paranoid, it seemed that Stauffenberg was the only one who had both the access and the resolve to kill him. He was fully aware that the chances of success were slim, but he felt that he needed to demonstrate to the world that there was a better Germany - what he thought of as secret Germany - and perhaps that he was the agent of history.When I was writing my book The Song Before it is Sung, about a conspirator in the bomb plot, I was puzzled for some time that the British refused to trust the various overtures from the resistance in Germany. Stauffenberg was a close friend and confidant of Adam von Trott, the Rhodes scholar who was also deeply involved in the resistance and executed a few weeks after the July plot. I also pondered the question of why Trott's friend at Oxford, Isaiah Berlin, a magnanimous and generous man, came to distrust him, and I wondered why, 30 years later, he wrote in a letter to Shiela Grant Duff, who knew them both well, saying that Trott was no hero and \"not on our side\". What he saw, I think, is that in ideas of a mythic German past, and in the belief in a historical destiny, lay the genesis of Nazism. The idea of a noble Germany, uncorrupted by racial inferiors and alien philosophies, a Germany that would be led by a world figure, was not invented by Hitler. Long before he came along, the simple word F\u00fchrer - leader - had been turned into something messianic, and I think Berlin knew where the blame lay. During their walks and discussions in Oxford, Berlin often said to Trott that when he was at a loss, he turned to Hegel. Hegel believed, essentially, that history had a forward motion to a point where all contradictions would be resolved. It is ironic that Stauffenberg's son should have been contemptuous of the notion of Tom Cruise playing his father, on the grounds that he is a cultist, because Claus Schenk von Stauffenberg and his two brothers, Berthold and Alexander, were themselves members of a cult that formed around a mythical secret Germany; their master was the poet Stefan George. George is a sinister figure, but in an American newspaper article of the 1920s he was rated one of the most important men in the world. Hardly remembered and little read today, he was a poet who rivalled H\u00f6lderlin and Schiller in his fame.The Stauffenberg family had held the title of \"Schenk\", which meant \"cup-bearer\", since the 13th century, an honour bestowed on them by the Hohenstaufens, the legendary monarchical family of Swabia who also ruled Sicily in the middle ages. At the time of Stauffenberg's birth in 1907, his family was to be found at the Altes Schloss in Stuttgart, in the service of the W\u00fcrttemberg monarchy. The Stauffenbergs were a family steeped in tradition, highly cultured, highly regarded. It was hardly surprising that Stefan George welcomed these good-looking and aristocratic brothers into his circle. This may in part have been because of the homoerotic element in his movement, but it was also because the Stauffenbergs represented everything George felt had been lost in Germany - the medieval greatness of the Hohenstaufen Friedrich II and the warrior qualities of the Teutonic Knights. Poetry was to lead the way back to greatness, and George was Germany's poet; he and his disciples propagated the notion of a unique German-ness, Deutschtum, which was traced back to Friedrich II. Members of the George circle were subject to some bizarre rules. Only Claus von Stauffenberg kept his own name, presumably because of its flattering historical resonances. His brother Berthold was told not to marry the woman he loved, and he obeyed, at least until George was dead. But even after the war, the surviving brother, Alexander, eulogised George as the spokesman of something uniquely German. G\u00f6ring revered him too, and after the Nazi takeover of 1933 wanted to instate him as the head of an academy of poetry. George replied that he had for a long time been the leader of German poetry, and didn't need an academy. His circle had many Jewish members, but his views became broadly antisemitic as the Nazis became more important. None the less, he fled to Switzerland and died before it was completely clear where he stood on national socialism. The Stauffenberg brothers were made George's heirs, and after his death tended his grave in Switzerland and continued to organise candlelit readings of his poetry. As the war progressed, Stauffenberg enjoyed a rapid rise in the army. He was at first enthusiastic about military successes on the eastern front, but had for some time been deeply alarmed by Hitler: Kristallnacht had disgusted him, particularly as his brother was married to someone of Jewish descent. He quickly became aware that the SS, the SD and the Gestapo were creating a lasting legacy of hatred that would one day be avenged. He began to seek out like-minded officers and spoke at times quite openly about his fears for Germany and the army. Sometimes he recited George's poem \"The Antichrist\" to support his argument. As the advance east was halted, it became more urgent to end the war with at least something of Germany intact. Stauffenberg had particular cause for alarm: he was in charge of logistics for the 10th Panzers and knew that for every thousand casualties, only 300 replacements could be found - disaster was inevitable. At the same time he found himself increasingly appalled by the indiscriminate killing of Jews, Slavs and Russian prisoners, and by the SS battalions' unbridled lust for murder, which was having a corrupting effect on the army too. He often ignored or changed orders: he managed to thwart an order that all Russian prisoners should be tattooed on their buttocks. After Stalingrad, his outspokenness caused some of his superiors to decide that he should be sent to north Africa, which was relatively free of the SS. There he was severely wounded, losing part of his right arm, one eye and two fingers on his left hand. Through determination he made a dramatic recovery and found himself second in command of the home army in Berlin, under General Fromm, and was also appointed to the general staff, which gave him access to Hitler. After his first visit to the Berghof, he described the atmosphere there as \"stale, paralysing, rotten and degenerate\". A few months later, he primed the bomb with the three fingers of his left hand and placed it beside Hitler. The question the film does not raise is what kind of Germany Stauffenberg envisaged had the coup succeeded, which in all probability it would have, had Hitler been killed. Stefan George's poem \"Secret Germany\" was the inspiration for Stauffenberg's oath of mutual intent for the conspirators, which was typed by his brother Berthold's secretary: We want a new order which makes all Germans responsible for the state and guarantees them law and justice; but we despise the lie that all are equal and we submit to rank ordained by nature. We want a people with roots in their native land, close to the powers of nature, finding happiness and contentment in the given environment, and overcoming, in freedom and pride, the base instincts of envy and jealousy. We want leaders who ... are in harmony with the divine powers and set an example to others by their noble spirit, discipline and sacrifice.When Stauffenberg's body was burned, a ring was lost with it. Engraved on it were the words FINIS INITIUM, which is drawn from another of George's poems with the final line \"I am the end and the beginning\". This wasn't the Germany that the allies had in mind.\u2022 Valkyrie (12A) is released on 23 January", "tags": ["Tom Cruise", "Period and historical", "Thriller", "Film", "Culture", "Adolf Hitler", "World news", "Valkyrie"], "title": "Valkyrie: Tom Cruise and the plot to kill Hitler"},{"date": "2009-01-10T00:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "In the film Valkyrie, Tom Cruise plays Colonel Claus Schenk von Stauffenberg, the man who, on 20 July 1944, placed a bomb next to Hitler in his east Prussian headquarters, the Wolf's Lair. The bomb failed to kill Hitler, merely blowing his trousers to ribbons. That night, when the coup was seen to have failed, Stauffenberg was shot in the courtyard of the army headquarters in Berlin on the orders of General Fromm, his superior, who was in on the plot and hoped - in vain - to save himself. Sandbags were piled in the courtyard and the lights of staff cars illuminated the victims. Von Haeften, his aide, threw himself in front of Stauffenberg. He and two others were also shot that night and their bodies quickly buried. Stauffenberg died with the words \"Long live our sacred Germany\" on his lips, or perhaps - some heard - \"Long live our secret Germany\". In German, there is even less difference between the words \"sacred\" and \"secret\" than there is in English.The producers of Valkyrie have muffled his last words; the story behind secret Germany does not figure in their script, but they were clearly aware of its significance. Within a few weeks, 80 plotters had been executed in Pl\u00f6tzensee prison by slow strangulation, hung from meathooks; in all, at least 3,000 were killed and many children, including Stauffenberg's, were taken from their families and placed in orphanages. Many of those executed were from Germany's most distinguished families, people who, like Stauffenberg, were appalled by the direction Germany had taken, both in relation to the Jews and to the disastrous war in the east.The film is true to most of the facts of the plot, but fails to convey any sense of the catastrophic moral and political vortex into which Germans were being drawn. Nor does it give much sense of the immense charisma of Stauffenberg, to whom generals and politicians deferred and who had for some time been tipped as a future chief of staff. A revealing private memoir I was given, which describes a visit shortly before the bomb plot by Stauffenberg to one of the other resister's houses, suggests that the female staff were sent into paroxysms of adoration by the wounded hero. And the film gives no indication at all of Stauffenberg's background and philosophy: he fitted perfectly into the German tradition of Dichter und Helden, poets and heroes. For a start, he looked the part, tall with classical features; he was often compared to a medieval statue of a knight in the cathedral at Bamberg, his home town, and his wedding in this cathedral in 1933 to Nina von Lerchenfeld was a huge social event. Even Hitler believed that Stauffenberg was the embodiment of a German hero.So when the generals failed in their plots against Hitler - there were as many as 15 of them - someone was needed to head the disparate but substantial resistance, which extended from the army into the Foreign Office, the secret services and to important clerics and trade unionists. Stauffenberg was persuaded by his uncle, Nikolaus Graf von \u00dcxk\u00fcll, long disenchanted with the Nazis, that he should lead the movement. It seemed that he was the man who unmistakably wore the mantle of a near-mystic German past, a warrior Germany, a noble Germany, a poetic Germany, a Germany of myth and longing.There is nothing in the script or in Cruise's performance that explores these particularly German preoccupations. At times Cruise looks and sounds like the troublesome cop who has been given a tricky assignment, with 24 hours to get the bad guy before he has to hand in his badge: the assassination attempt is treated as a thriller. It lacks the intelligent understanding that Florian von Donnersmarck brought to The Lives of Others (2006), as people from different backgrounds, and with wildly different ideas of what Germany should become, tried to work together. Stauffenberg's stroke of genius was to subvert the emergency plan for defending Berlin against insurrection, Valkyrie, into a plan for a putsch after Hitler had been killed. As Hitler became more paranoid, it seemed that Stauffenberg was the only one who had both the access and the resolve to kill him. He was fully aware that the chances of success were slim, but he felt that he needed to demonstrate to the world that there was a better Germany - what he thought of as secret Germany - and perhaps that he was the agent of history.When I was writing my book The Song Before it is Sung, about a conspirator in the bomb plot, I was puzzled for some time that the British refused to trust the various overtures from the resistance in Germany. Stauffenberg was a close friend and confidant of Adam von Trott, the Rhodes scholar who was also deeply involved in the resistance and executed a few weeks after the July plot. I also pondered the question of why Trott's friend at Oxford, Isaiah Berlin, a magnanimous and generous man, came to distrust him, and I wondered why, 30 years later, he wrote in a letter to Shiela Grant Duff, who knew them both well, saying that Trott was no hero and \"not on our side\". What he saw, I think, is that in ideas of a mythic German past, and in the belief in a historical destiny, lay the genesis of Nazism. The idea of a noble Germany, uncorrupted by racial inferiors and alien philosophies, a Germany that would be led by a world figure, was not invented by Hitler. Long before he came along, the simple word F\u00fchrer - leader - had been turned into something messianic, and I think Berlin knew where the blame lay. During their walks and discussions in Oxford, Berlin often said to Trott that when he was at a loss, he turned to Hegel. Hegel believed, essentially, that history had a forward motion to a point where all contradictions would be resolved. It is ironic that Stauffenberg's son should have been contemptuous of the notion of Tom Cruise playing his father, on the grounds that he is a cultist, because Claus Schenk von Stauffenberg and his two brothers, Berthold and Alexander, were themselves members of a cult that formed around a mythical secret Germany; their master was the poet Stefan George. George is a sinister figure, but in an American newspaper article of the 1920s he was rated one of the most important men in the world. Hardly remembered and little read today, he was a poet who rivalled H\u00f6lderlin and Schiller in his fame.The Stauffenberg family had held the title of \"Schenk\", which meant \"cup-bearer\", since the 13th century, an honour bestowed on them by the Hohenstaufens, the legendary monarchical family of Swabia who also ruled Sicily in the middle ages. At the time of Stauffenberg's birth in 1907, his family was to be found at the Altes Schloss in Stuttgart, in the service of the W\u00fcrttemberg monarchy. The Stauffenbergs were a family steeped in tradition, highly cultured, highly regarded. It was hardly surprising that Stefan George welcomed these good-looking and aristocratic brothers into his circle. This may in part have been because of the homoerotic element in his movement, but it was also because the Stauffenbergs represented everything George felt had been lost in Germany - the medieval greatness of the Hohenstaufen Friedrich II and the warrior qualities of the Teutonic Knights. Poetry was to lead the way back to greatness, and George was Germany's poet; he and his disciples propagated the notion of a unique German-ness, Deutschtum, which was traced back to Friedrich II. Members of the George circle were subject to some bizarre rules. Only Claus von Stauffenberg kept his own name, presumably because of its flattering historical resonances. His brother Berthold was told not to marry the woman he loved, and he obeyed, at least until George was dead. But even after the war, the surviving brother, Alexander, eulogised George as the spokesman of something uniquely German. G\u00f6ring revered him too, and after the Nazi takeover of 1933 wanted to instate him as the head of an academy of poetry. George replied that he had for a long time been the leader of German poetry, and didn't need an academy. His circle had many Jewish members, but his views became broadly antisemitic as the Nazis became more important. None the less, he fled to Switzerland and died before it was completely clear where he stood on national socialism. The Stauffenberg brothers were made George's heirs, and after his death tended his grave in Switzerland and continued to organise candlelit readings of his poetry. As the war progressed, Stauffenberg enjoyed a rapid rise in the army. He was at first enthusiastic about military successes on the eastern front, but had for some time been deeply alarmed by Hitler: Kristallnacht had disgusted him, particularly as his brother was married to someone of Jewish descent. He quickly became aware that the SS, the SD and the Gestapo were creating a lasting legacy of hatred that would one day be avenged. He began to seek out like-minded officers and spoke at times quite openly about his fears for Germany and the army. Sometimes he recited George's poem \"The Antichrist\" to support his argument. As the advance east was halted, it became more urgent to end the war with at least something of Germany intact. Stauffenberg had particular cause for alarm: he was in charge of logistics for the 10th Panzers and knew that for every thousand casualties, only 300 replacements could be found - disaster was inevitable. At the same time he found himself increasingly appalled by the indiscriminate killing of Jews, Slavs and Russian prisoners, and by the SS battalions' unbridled lust for murder, which was having a corrupting effect on the army too. He often ignored or changed orders: he managed to thwart an order that all Russian prisoners should be tattooed on their buttocks. After Stalingrad, his outspokenness caused some of his superiors to decide that he should be sent to north Africa, which was relatively free of the SS. There he was severely wounded, losing part of his right arm, one eye and two fingers on his left hand. Through determination he made a dramatic recovery and found himself second in command of the home army in Berlin, under General Fromm, and was also appointed to the general staff, which gave him access to Hitler. After his first visit to the Berghof, he described the atmosphere there as \"stale, paralysing, rotten and degenerate\". A few months later, he primed the bomb with the three fingers of his left hand and placed it beside Hitler. The question the film does not raise is what kind of Germany Stauffenberg envisaged had the coup succeeded, which in all probability it would have, had Hitler been killed. Stefan George's poem \"Secret Germany\" was the inspiration for Stauffenberg's oath of mutual intent for the conspirators, which was typed by his brother Berthold's secretary: We want a new order which makes all Germans responsible for the state and guarantees them law and justice; but we despise the lie that all are equal and we submit to rank ordained by nature. We want a people with roots in their native land, close to the powers of nature, finding happiness and contentment in the given environment, and overcoming, in freedom and pride, the base instincts of envy and jealousy. We want leaders who ... are in harmony with the divine powers and set an example to others by their noble spirit, discipline and sacrifice.When Stauffenberg's body was burned, a ring was lost with it. Engraved on it were the words FINIS INITIUM, which is drawn from another of George's poems with the final line \"I am the end and the beginning\". This wasn't the Germany that the allies had in mind.\u2022 Valkyrie (12A) is released on 23 January", "tags": ["Tom Cruise", "Period and historical", "Thriller", "Film", "Culture", "Adolf Hitler", "World news", "Valkyrie"], "title": "Valkyrie: Tom Cruise and the plot to kill Hitler"},{"date": "2009-03-26T10:13:50Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government is set to extend the \u20ac2,500 (\u00a32,330) scrappage premium for consumers who trade in their 10-year-old cars for new, fuel-efficient models, it emerged last night.The news puts added pressure on the UK government to adopt a similar scheme to boost demand in Britain where car production fell 59% last month and sales are collapsing.The UK industry body, the SMMT, has for weeks been urging Lord Mandelson, business secretary, and cabinet colleagues to offer \u00a32,000 per new car in a British version of a programme now adopted in a dozen EU countries.Chancellor Angela Merkel and her deputy and foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, reached a deal that the scheme could be extended until the end of this year. But they are yet to fix the size of the bonus in a second stage.German consumer demand has been so strong that dealers are reporting that the programme, costing \u20ac1.5bn, may run out over Easter. It has attracted 570,000 new buyers \u2013 close to Berlin's ceiling of 600,000, they say.Official figures suggest that around 350,000 orders have been placed under the scheme but these are said to have under-estimated the scale of the rush to car showrooms \u2013 mainly for smaller cars rather than BMWs, Mercedes or Porsches.Some industry executives are angry that non-German makes such as Romania's Dacia, France's Renault and Peugeot Citroen and Japan's Toyota have benefited at their expense.Berlin's grand coalition government is said to be ready to consider the extension because sales have boosted demand and growth in an economy that could shrink between 5% and 7% this year and see unemployment rise to 4 million.Ministers have also accepted industry executives' arguments that the scrappage bonus is virtually self-financing, with current sales levels likely to boost VAT yields by \u20ac1.3bn \u2013 only \u20ac200,000 short of the exchequer's gross cost.The agreed extension is also expected to go down well with voters in a general election year dominated, inter alia, by the depth of the recession \u2013 and the undecided \u20ac3.3bn rescue of Opel, the German arm of General Motors which employs 25,000 directly and 300,000 indirectly.A less generous scheme in France, worth \u20ac1,000 for each car, has also boosted sales, prompting Renault to move production of a Clio model back to France and create 400 jobs. This has provoked widespread criticism of French protectionism.Yesterday MEPs urged the EU to adopt a united European response to help the industry and avoid protectionist measures. They want the European Investment Bank and other bodies to speed up loans and guarantees for the industryGlenis Willmott, leader of the Labour MEPs, said: \"It is vital we act now to protect our car manufacturing industry and those connected to the industry as we cannot afford to let it go to the wall.\" She called for EU guidelines for scrappage schemes.Welcoming the move, Ivan Hodac, secretary general of the European carmakers' body ACEA, said: \"The auto industry is essential to the EU economy. It is the engine of manufacturing, one of the biggest employers in Europe, the largest investor in innovation and R&D, and a formidable export force.\"", "tags": ["Car scrappage", "Automotive industry", "Business", "Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany extends car scrappage scheme"},{"date": "2009-01-10T00:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "In the film Valkyrie, Tom Cruise plays Colonel Claus Schenk von Stauffenberg, the man who, on 20 July 1944, placed a bomb next to Hitler in his east Prussian headquarters, the Wolf's Lair. The bomb failed to kill Hitler, merely blowing his trousers to ribbons. That night, when the coup was seen to have failed, Stauffenberg was shot in the courtyard of the army headquarters in Berlin on the orders of General Fromm, his superior, who was in on the plot and hoped - in vain - to save himself. Sandbags were piled in the courtyard and the lights of staff cars illuminated the victims. Von Haeften, his aide, threw himself in front of Stauffenberg. He and two others were also shot that night and their bodies quickly buried. Stauffenberg died with the words \"Long live our sacred Germany\" on his lips, or perhaps - some heard - \"Long live our secret Germany\". In German, there is even less difference between the words \"sacred\" and \"secret\" than there is in English.The producers of Valkyrie have muffled his last words; the story behind secret Germany does not figure in their script, but they were clearly aware of its significance. Within a few weeks, 80 plotters had been executed in Pl\u00f6tzensee prison by slow strangulation, hung from meathooks; in all, at least 3,000 were killed and many children, including Stauffenberg's, were taken from their families and placed in orphanages. Many of those executed were from Germany's most distinguished families, people who, like Stauffenberg, were appalled by the direction Germany had taken, both in relation to the Jews and to the disastrous war in the east.The film is true to most of the facts of the plot, but fails to convey any sense of the catastrophic moral and political vortex into which Germans were being drawn. Nor does it give much sense of the immense charisma of Stauffenberg, to whom generals and politicians deferred and who had for some time been tipped as a future chief of staff. A revealing private memoir I was given, which describes a visit shortly before the bomb plot by Stauffenberg to one of the other resister's houses, suggests that the female staff were sent into paroxysms of adoration by the wounded hero. And the film gives no indication at all of Stauffenberg's background and philosophy: he fitted perfectly into the German tradition of Dichter und Helden, poets and heroes. For a start, he looked the part, tall with classical features; he was often compared to a medieval statue of a knight in the cathedral at Bamberg, his home town, and his wedding in this cathedral in 1933 to Nina von Lerchenfeld was a huge social event. Even Hitler believed that Stauffenberg was the embodiment of a German hero.So when the generals failed in their plots against Hitler - there were as many as 15 of them - someone was needed to head the disparate but substantial resistance, which extended from the army into the Foreign Office, the secret services and to important clerics and trade unionists. Stauffenberg was persuaded by his uncle, Nikolaus Graf von \u00dcxk\u00fcll, long disenchanted with the Nazis, that he should lead the movement. It seemed that he was the man who unmistakably wore the mantle of a near-mystic German past, a warrior Germany, a noble Germany, a poetic Germany, a Germany of myth and longing.There is nothing in the script or in Cruise's performance that explores these particularly German preoccupations. At times Cruise looks and sounds like the troublesome cop who has been given a tricky assignment, with 24 hours to get the bad guy before he has to hand in his badge: the assassination attempt is treated as a thriller. It lacks the intelligent understanding that Florian von Donnersmarck brought to The Lives of Others (2006), as people from different backgrounds, and with wildly different ideas of what Germany should become, tried to work together. Stauffenberg's stroke of genius was to subvert the emergency plan for defending Berlin against insurrection, Valkyrie, into a plan for a putsch after Hitler had been killed. As Hitler became more paranoid, it seemed that Stauffenberg was the only one who had both the access and the resolve to kill him. He was fully aware that the chances of success were slim, but he felt that he needed to demonstrate to the world that there was a better Germany - what he thought of as secret Germany - and perhaps that he was the agent of history.When I was writing my book The Song Before it is Sung, about a conspirator in the bomb plot, I was puzzled for some time that the British refused to trust the various overtures from the resistance in Germany. Stauffenberg was a close friend and confidant of Adam von Trott, the Rhodes scholar who was also deeply involved in the resistance and executed a few weeks after the July plot. I also pondered the question of why Trott's friend at Oxford, Isaiah Berlin, a magnanimous and generous man, came to distrust him, and I wondered why, 30 years later, he wrote in a letter to Shiela Grant Duff, who knew them both well, saying that Trott was no hero and \"not on our side\". What he saw, I think, is that in ideas of a mythic German past, and in the belief in a historical destiny, lay the genesis of Nazism. The idea of a noble Germany, uncorrupted by racial inferiors and alien philosophies, a Germany that would be led by a world figure, was not invented by Hitler. Long before he came along, the simple word F\u00fchrer - leader - had been turned into something messianic, and I think Berlin knew where the blame lay. During their walks and discussions in Oxford, Berlin often said to Trott that when he was at a loss, he turned to Hegel. Hegel believed, essentially, that history had a forward motion to a point where all contradictions would be resolved. It is ironic that Stauffenberg's son should have been contemptuous of the notion of Tom Cruise playing his father, on the grounds that he is a cultist, because Claus Schenk von Stauffenberg and his two brothers, Berthold and Alexander, were themselves members of a cult that formed around a mythical secret Germany; their master was the poet Stefan George. George is a sinister figure, but in an American newspaper article of the 1920s he was rated one of the most important men in the world. Hardly remembered and little read today, he was a poet who rivalled H\u00f6lderlin and Schiller in his fame.The Stauffenberg family had held the title of \"Schenk\", which meant \"cup-bearer\", since the 13th century, an honour bestowed on them by the Hohenstaufens, the legendary monarchical family of Swabia who also ruled Sicily in the middle ages. At the time of Stauffenberg's birth in 1907, his family was to be found at the Altes Schloss in Stuttgart, in the service of the W\u00fcrttemberg monarchy. The Stauffenbergs were a family steeped in tradition, highly cultured, highly regarded. It was hardly surprising that Stefan George welcomed these good-looking and aristocratic brothers into his circle. This may in part have been because of the homoerotic element in his movement, but it was also because the Stauffenbergs represented everything George felt had been lost in Germany - the medieval greatness of the Hohenstaufen Friedrich II and the warrior qualities of the Teutonic Knights. Poetry was to lead the way back to greatness, and George was Germany's poet; he and his disciples propagated the notion of a unique German-ness, Deutschtum, which was traced back to Friedrich II. Members of the George circle were subject to some bizarre rules. Only Claus von Stauffenberg kept his own name, presumably because of its flattering historical resonances. His brother Berthold was told not to marry the woman he loved, and he obeyed, at least until George was dead. But even after the war, the surviving brother, Alexander, eulogised George as the spokesman of something uniquely German. G\u00f6ring revered him too, and after the Nazi takeover of 1933 wanted to instate him as the head of an academy of poetry. George replied that he had for a long time been the leader of German poetry, and didn't need an academy. His circle had many Jewish members, but his views became broadly antisemitic as the Nazis became more important. None the less, he fled to Switzerland and died before it was completely clear where he stood on national socialism. The Stauffenberg brothers were made George's heirs, and after his death tended his grave in Switzerland and continued to organise candlelit readings of his poetry. As the war progressed, Stauffenberg enjoyed a rapid rise in the army. He was at first enthusiastic about military successes on the eastern front, but had for some time been deeply alarmed by Hitler: Kristallnacht had disgusted him, particularly as his brother was married to someone of Jewish descent. He quickly became aware that the SS, the SD and the Gestapo were creating a lasting legacy of hatred that would one day be avenged. He began to seek out like-minded officers and spoke at times quite openly about his fears for Germany and the army. Sometimes he recited George's poem \"The Antichrist\" to support his argument. As the advance east was halted, it became more urgent to end the war with at least something of Germany intact. Stauffenberg had particular cause for alarm: he was in charge of logistics for the 10th Panzers and knew that for every thousand casualties, only 300 replacements could be found - disaster was inevitable. At the same time he found himself increasingly appalled by the indiscriminate killing of Jews, Slavs and Russian prisoners, and by the SS battalions' unbridled lust for murder, which was having a corrupting effect on the army too. He often ignored or changed orders: he managed to thwart an order that all Russian prisoners should be tattooed on their buttocks. After Stalingrad, his outspokenness caused some of his superiors to decide that he should be sent to north Africa, which was relatively free of the SS. There he was severely wounded, losing part of his right arm, one eye and two fingers on his left hand. Through determination he made a dramatic recovery and found himself second in command of the home army in Berlin, under General Fromm, and was also appointed to the general staff, which gave him access to Hitler. After his first visit to the Berghof, he described the atmosphere there as \"stale, paralysing, rotten and degenerate\". A few months later, he primed the bomb with the three fingers of his left hand and placed it beside Hitler. The question the film does not raise is what kind of Germany Stauffenberg envisaged had the coup succeeded, which in all probability it would have, had Hitler been killed. Stefan George's poem \"Secret Germany\" was the inspiration for Stauffenberg's oath of mutual intent for the conspirators, which was typed by his brother Berthold's secretary: We want a new order which makes all Germans responsible for the state and guarantees them law and justice; but we despise the lie that all are equal and we submit to rank ordained by nature. We want a people with roots in their native land, close to the powers of nature, finding happiness and contentment in the given environment, and overcoming, in freedom and pride, the base instincts of envy and jealousy. We want leaders who ... are in harmony with the divine powers and set an example to others by their noble spirit, discipline and sacrifice.When Stauffenberg's body was burned, a ring was lost with it. Engraved on it were the words FINIS INITIUM, which is drawn from another of George's poems with the final line \"I am the end and the beginning\". This wasn't the Germany that the allies had in mind.\u2022 Valkyrie (12A) is released on 23 January", "tags": ["Tom Cruise", "Period and historical", "Thriller", "Film", "Culture", "Adolf Hitler", "World news", "Valkyrie"], "title": "Valkyrie: Tom Cruise and the plot to kill Hitler"},{"date": "2009-03-26T10:13:50Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government is set to extend the \u20ac2,500 (\u00a32,330) scrappage premium for consumers who trade in their 10-year-old cars for new, fuel-efficient models, it emerged last night.The news puts added pressure on the UK government to adopt a similar scheme to boost demand in Britain where car production fell 59% last month and sales are collapsing.The UK industry body, the SMMT, has for weeks been urging Lord Mandelson, business secretary, and cabinet colleagues to offer \u00a32,000 per new car in a British version of a programme now adopted in a dozen EU countries.Chancellor Angela Merkel and her deputy and foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, reached a deal that the scheme could be extended until the end of this year. But they are yet to fix the size of the bonus in a second stage.German consumer demand has been so strong that dealers are reporting that the programme, costing \u20ac1.5bn, may run out over Easter. It has attracted 570,000 new buyers \u2013 close to Berlin's ceiling of 600,000, they say.Official figures suggest that around 350,000 orders have been placed under the scheme but these are said to have under-estimated the scale of the rush to car showrooms \u2013 mainly for smaller cars rather than BMWs, Mercedes or Porsches.Some industry executives are angry that non-German makes such as Romania's Dacia, France's Renault and Peugeot Citroen and Japan's Toyota have benefited at their expense.Berlin's grand coalition government is said to be ready to consider the extension because sales have boosted demand and growth in an economy that could shrink between 5% and 7% this year and see unemployment rise to 4 million.Ministers have also accepted industry executives' arguments that the scrappage bonus is virtually self-financing, with current sales levels likely to boost VAT yields by \u20ac1.3bn \u2013 only \u20ac200,000 short of the exchequer's gross cost.The agreed extension is also expected to go down well with voters in a general election year dominated, inter alia, by the depth of the recession \u2013 and the undecided \u20ac3.3bn rescue of Opel, the German arm of General Motors which employs 25,000 directly and 300,000 indirectly.A less generous scheme in France, worth \u20ac1,000 for each car, has also boosted sales, prompting Renault to move production of a Clio model back to France and create 400 jobs. This has provoked widespread criticism of French protectionism.Yesterday MEPs urged the EU to adopt a united European response to help the industry and avoid protectionist measures. They want the European Investment Bank and other bodies to speed up loans and guarantees for the industryGlenis Willmott, leader of the Labour MEPs, said: \"It is vital we act now to protect our car manufacturing industry and those connected to the industry as we cannot afford to let it go to the wall.\" She called for EU guidelines for scrappage schemes.Welcoming the move, Ivan Hodac, secretary general of the European carmakers' body ACEA, said: \"The auto industry is essential to the EU economy. It is the engine of manufacturing, one of the biggest employers in Europe, the largest investor in innovation and R&D, and a formidable export force.\"", "tags": ["Car scrappage", "Automotive industry", "Business", "Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany extends car scrappage scheme"},{"date": "2009-01-27T14:16:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Chancellor Angela Merkel's cabinet approved a \u20ac50bn (\u00a346.7bn) stimulus package today, the biggest programme in Europe, to tackle overcome the country's deepest economic crisis since the second world war.The package will require a new borrowing level of \u20ac36.8bn, more than twice the amount planned for 2009 before the impact of the global crisis on Europe's largest economy was realised. It is also more than three times the amount forecast in the middle of last year. A controversial draft supplementary budget is planned to cover the leap in borrowing.The programme is equivalent to 1.6% of gross domestic product, and is the biggest of its kind in German history. In the UK, the government unveiled fiscal stimulus measures totalling some \u00a320bn in last year's pre-budget report.The German package includes \u20ac17.3bn of investment in the country's infrastructure, as well as tax cuts, a one-off \u20ac100 child bonus, and an increase in some social benefits. A boost to the car industry in the form of an \"old banger bounty\" will offer people the chance to trade in cars more than nine years old and to receive a \u20ac2,500 bonus towards a new or slightly used car.The car industry has been one of the worst hit as exports, particularly to the US, have tumbled, causing a record slump in German manufacturing orders.Peer Steinbr\u00fcck, the finance minister, came under attack for the package, which some experts estimated would cause national debt to rise in real terms to as much as \u20ac74.3bn.\"Steinbr\u00fcck is the minister of record debt,\" said Otto Fricke of the pro-business, liberal Free Democrats.Some small comfort was taken today at news from the federal statistics office which showed that, despite the crisis, Germany remained slightly ahead of China as the world's largest exporter. And business confidence unexpectedly rose this month based on the news of the package, according to German business mood barometer the Ifo Index, which polled 7,000 firms.The International Monetary Fund expects the German economy to contract by 2.5% this year.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Global recession", "Economics", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Germany approves \u20ac50bn stimulus package"},{"date": "2009-01-10T00:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "In the film Valkyrie, Tom Cruise plays Colonel Claus Schenk von Stauffenberg, the man who, on 20 July 1944, placed a bomb next to Hitler in his east Prussian headquarters, the Wolf's Lair. The bomb failed to kill Hitler, merely blowing his trousers to ribbons. That night, when the coup was seen to have failed, Stauffenberg was shot in the courtyard of the army headquarters in Berlin on the orders of General Fromm, his superior, who was in on the plot and hoped - in vain - to save himself. Sandbags were piled in the courtyard and the lights of staff cars illuminated the victims. Von Haeften, his aide, threw himself in front of Stauffenberg. He and two others were also shot that night and their bodies quickly buried. Stauffenberg died with the words \"Long live our sacred Germany\" on his lips, or perhaps - some heard - \"Long live our secret Germany\". In German, there is even less difference between the words \"sacred\" and \"secret\" than there is in English.The producers of Valkyrie have muffled his last words; the story behind secret Germany does not figure in their script, but they were clearly aware of its significance. Within a few weeks, 80 plotters had been executed in Pl\u00f6tzensee prison by slow strangulation, hung from meathooks; in all, at least 3,000 were killed and many children, including Stauffenberg's, were taken from their families and placed in orphanages. Many of those executed were from Germany's most distinguished families, people who, like Stauffenberg, were appalled by the direction Germany had taken, both in relation to the Jews and to the disastrous war in the east.The film is true to most of the facts of the plot, but fails to convey any sense of the catastrophic moral and political vortex into which Germans were being drawn. Nor does it give much sense of the immense charisma of Stauffenberg, to whom generals and politicians deferred and who had for some time been tipped as a future chief of staff. A revealing private memoir I was given, which describes a visit shortly before the bomb plot by Stauffenberg to one of the other resister's houses, suggests that the female staff were sent into paroxysms of adoration by the wounded hero. And the film gives no indication at all of Stauffenberg's background and philosophy: he fitted perfectly into the German tradition of Dichter und Helden, poets and heroes. For a start, he looked the part, tall with classical features; he was often compared to a medieval statue of a knight in the cathedral at Bamberg, his home town, and his wedding in this cathedral in 1933 to Nina von Lerchenfeld was a huge social event. Even Hitler believed that Stauffenberg was the embodiment of a German hero.So when the generals failed in their plots against Hitler - there were as many as 15 of them - someone was needed to head the disparate but substantial resistance, which extended from the army into the Foreign Office, the secret services and to important clerics and trade unionists. Stauffenberg was persuaded by his uncle, Nikolaus Graf von \u00dcxk\u00fcll, long disenchanted with the Nazis, that he should lead the movement. It seemed that he was the man who unmistakably wore the mantle of a near-mystic German past, a warrior Germany, a noble Germany, a poetic Germany, a Germany of myth and longing.There is nothing in the script or in Cruise's performance that explores these particularly German preoccupations. At times Cruise looks and sounds like the troublesome cop who has been given a tricky assignment, with 24 hours to get the bad guy before he has to hand in his badge: the assassination attempt is treated as a thriller. It lacks the intelligent understanding that Florian von Donnersmarck brought to The Lives of Others (2006), as people from different backgrounds, and with wildly different ideas of what Germany should become, tried to work together. Stauffenberg's stroke of genius was to subvert the emergency plan for defending Berlin against insurrection, Valkyrie, into a plan for a putsch after Hitler had been killed. As Hitler became more paranoid, it seemed that Stauffenberg was the only one who had both the access and the resolve to kill him. He was fully aware that the chances of success were slim, but he felt that he needed to demonstrate to the world that there was a better Germany - what he thought of as secret Germany - and perhaps that he was the agent of history.When I was writing my book The Song Before it is Sung, about a conspirator in the bomb plot, I was puzzled for some time that the British refused to trust the various overtures from the resistance in Germany. Stauffenberg was a close friend and confidant of Adam von Trott, the Rhodes scholar who was also deeply involved in the resistance and executed a few weeks after the July plot. I also pondered the question of why Trott's friend at Oxford, Isaiah Berlin, a magnanimous and generous man, came to distrust him, and I wondered why, 30 years later, he wrote in a letter to Shiela Grant Duff, who knew them both well, saying that Trott was no hero and \"not on our side\". What he saw, I think, is that in ideas of a mythic German past, and in the belief in a historical destiny, lay the genesis of Nazism. The idea of a noble Germany, uncorrupted by racial inferiors and alien philosophies, a Germany that would be led by a world figure, was not invented by Hitler. Long before he came along, the simple word F\u00fchrer - leader - had been turned into something messianic, and I think Berlin knew where the blame lay. During their walks and discussions in Oxford, Berlin often said to Trott that when he was at a loss, he turned to Hegel. Hegel believed, essentially, that history had a forward motion to a point where all contradictions would be resolved. It is ironic that Stauffenberg's son should have been contemptuous of the notion of Tom Cruise playing his father, on the grounds that he is a cultist, because Claus Schenk von Stauffenberg and his two brothers, Berthold and Alexander, were themselves members of a cult that formed around a mythical secret Germany; their master was the poet Stefan George. George is a sinister figure, but in an American newspaper article of the 1920s he was rated one of the most important men in the world. Hardly remembered and little read today, he was a poet who rivalled H\u00f6lderlin and Schiller in his fame.The Stauffenberg family had held the title of \"Schenk\", which meant \"cup-bearer\", since the 13th century, an honour bestowed on them by the Hohenstaufens, the legendary monarchical family of Swabia who also ruled Sicily in the middle ages. At the time of Stauffenberg's birth in 1907, his family was to be found at the Altes Schloss in Stuttgart, in the service of the W\u00fcrttemberg monarchy. The Stauffenbergs were a family steeped in tradition, highly cultured, highly regarded. It was hardly surprising that Stefan George welcomed these good-looking and aristocratic brothers into his circle. This may in part have been because of the homoerotic element in his movement, but it was also because the Stauffenbergs represented everything George felt had been lost in Germany - the medieval greatness of the Hohenstaufen Friedrich II and the warrior qualities of the Teutonic Knights. Poetry was to lead the way back to greatness, and George was Germany's poet; he and his disciples propagated the notion of a unique German-ness, Deutschtum, which was traced back to Friedrich II. Members of the George circle were subject to some bizarre rules. Only Claus von Stauffenberg kept his own name, presumably because of its flattering historical resonances. His brother Berthold was told not to marry the woman he loved, and he obeyed, at least until George was dead. But even after the war, the surviving brother, Alexander, eulogised George as the spokesman of something uniquely German. G\u00f6ring revered him too, and after the Nazi takeover of 1933 wanted to instate him as the head of an academy of poetry. George replied that he had for a long time been the leader of German poetry, and didn't need an academy. His circle had many Jewish members, but his views became broadly antisemitic as the Nazis became more important. None the less, he fled to Switzerland and died before it was completely clear where he stood on national socialism. The Stauffenberg brothers were made George's heirs, and after his death tended his grave in Switzerland and continued to organise candlelit readings of his poetry. As the war progressed, Stauffenberg enjoyed a rapid rise in the army. He was at first enthusiastic about military successes on the eastern front, but had for some time been deeply alarmed by Hitler: Kristallnacht had disgusted him, particularly as his brother was married to someone of Jewish descent. He quickly became aware that the SS, the SD and the Gestapo were creating a lasting legacy of hatred that would one day be avenged. He began to seek out like-minded officers and spoke at times quite openly about his fears for Germany and the army. Sometimes he recited George's poem \"The Antichrist\" to support his argument. As the advance east was halted, it became more urgent to end the war with at least something of Germany intact. Stauffenberg had particular cause for alarm: he was in charge of logistics for the 10th Panzers and knew that for every thousand casualties, only 300 replacements could be found - disaster was inevitable. At the same time he found himself increasingly appalled by the indiscriminate killing of Jews, Slavs and Russian prisoners, and by the SS battalions' unbridled lust for murder, which was having a corrupting effect on the army too. He often ignored or changed orders: he managed to thwart an order that all Russian prisoners should be tattooed on their buttocks. After Stalingrad, his outspokenness caused some of his superiors to decide that he should be sent to north Africa, which was relatively free of the SS. There he was severely wounded, losing part of his right arm, one eye and two fingers on his left hand. Through determination he made a dramatic recovery and found himself second in command of the home army in Berlin, under General Fromm, and was also appointed to the general staff, which gave him access to Hitler. After his first visit to the Berghof, he described the atmosphere there as \"stale, paralysing, rotten and degenerate\". A few months later, he primed the bomb with the three fingers of his left hand and placed it beside Hitler. The question the film does not raise is what kind of Germany Stauffenberg envisaged had the coup succeeded, which in all probability it would have, had Hitler been killed. Stefan George's poem \"Secret Germany\" was the inspiration for Stauffenberg's oath of mutual intent for the conspirators, which was typed by his brother Berthold's secretary: We want a new order which makes all Germans responsible for the state and guarantees them law and justice; but we despise the lie that all are equal and we submit to rank ordained by nature. We want a people with roots in their native land, close to the powers of nature, finding happiness and contentment in the given environment, and overcoming, in freedom and pride, the base instincts of envy and jealousy. We want leaders who ... are in harmony with the divine powers and set an example to others by their noble spirit, discipline and sacrifice.When Stauffenberg's body was burned, a ring was lost with it. Engraved on it were the words FINIS INITIUM, which is drawn from another of George's poems with the final line \"I am the end and the beginning\". This wasn't the Germany that the allies had in mind.\u2022 Valkyrie (12A) is released on 23 January", "tags": ["Tom Cruise", "Period and historical", "Thriller", "Film", "Culture", "Adolf Hitler", "World news", "Valkyrie"], "title": "Valkyrie: Tom Cruise and the plot to kill Hitler"},{"date": "2009-03-26T10:13:50Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government is set to extend the \u20ac2,500 (\u00a32,330) scrappage premium for consumers who trade in their 10-year-old cars for new, fuel-efficient models, it emerged last night.The news puts added pressure on the UK government to adopt a similar scheme to boost demand in Britain where car production fell 59% last month and sales are collapsing.The UK industry body, the SMMT, has for weeks been urging Lord Mandelson, business secretary, and cabinet colleagues to offer \u00a32,000 per new car in a British version of a programme now adopted in a dozen EU countries.Chancellor Angela Merkel and her deputy and foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, reached a deal that the scheme could be extended until the end of this year. But they are yet to fix the size of the bonus in a second stage.German consumer demand has been so strong that dealers are reporting that the programme, costing \u20ac1.5bn, may run out over Easter. It has attracted 570,000 new buyers \u2013 close to Berlin's ceiling of 600,000, they say.Official figures suggest that around 350,000 orders have been placed under the scheme but these are said to have under-estimated the scale of the rush to car showrooms \u2013 mainly for smaller cars rather than BMWs, Mercedes or Porsches.Some industry executives are angry that non-German makes such as Romania's Dacia, France's Renault and Peugeot Citroen and Japan's Toyota have benefited at their expense.Berlin's grand coalition government is said to be ready to consider the extension because sales have boosted demand and growth in an economy that could shrink between 5% and 7% this year and see unemployment rise to 4 million.Ministers have also accepted industry executives' arguments that the scrappage bonus is virtually self-financing, with current sales levels likely to boost VAT yields by \u20ac1.3bn \u2013 only \u20ac200,000 short of the exchequer's gross cost.The agreed extension is also expected to go down well with voters in a general election year dominated, inter alia, by the depth of the recession \u2013 and the undecided \u20ac3.3bn rescue of Opel, the German arm of General Motors which employs 25,000 directly and 300,000 indirectly.A less generous scheme in France, worth \u20ac1,000 for each car, has also boosted sales, prompting Renault to move production of a Clio model back to France and create 400 jobs. This has provoked widespread criticism of French protectionism.Yesterday MEPs urged the EU to adopt a united European response to help the industry and avoid protectionist measures. They want the European Investment Bank and other bodies to speed up loans and guarantees for the industryGlenis Willmott, leader of the Labour MEPs, said: \"It is vital we act now to protect our car manufacturing industry and those connected to the industry as we cannot afford to let it go to the wall.\" She called for EU guidelines for scrappage schemes.Welcoming the move, Ivan Hodac, secretary general of the European carmakers' body ACEA, said: \"The auto industry is essential to the EU economy. It is the engine of manufacturing, one of the biggest employers in Europe, the largest investor in innovation and R&D, and a formidable export force.\"", "tags": ["Car scrappage", "Automotive industry", "Business", "Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany extends car scrappage scheme"},{"date": "2009-01-27T14:16:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Chancellor Angela Merkel's cabinet approved a \u20ac50bn (\u00a346.7bn) stimulus package today, the biggest programme in Europe, to tackle overcome the country's deepest economic crisis since the second world war.The package will require a new borrowing level of \u20ac36.8bn, more than twice the amount planned for 2009 before the impact of the global crisis on Europe's largest economy was realised. It is also more than three times the amount forecast in the middle of last year. A controversial draft supplementary budget is planned to cover the leap in borrowing.The programme is equivalent to 1.6% of gross domestic product, and is the biggest of its kind in German history. In the UK, the government unveiled fiscal stimulus measures totalling some \u00a320bn in last year's pre-budget report.The German package includes \u20ac17.3bn of investment in the country's infrastructure, as well as tax cuts, a one-off \u20ac100 child bonus, and an increase in some social benefits. A boost to the car industry in the form of an \"old banger bounty\" will offer people the chance to trade in cars more than nine years old and to receive a \u20ac2,500 bonus towards a new or slightly used car.The car industry has been one of the worst hit as exports, particularly to the US, have tumbled, causing a record slump in German manufacturing orders.Peer Steinbr\u00fcck, the finance minister, came under attack for the package, which some experts estimated would cause national debt to rise in real terms to as much as \u20ac74.3bn.\"Steinbr\u00fcck is the minister of record debt,\" said Otto Fricke of the pro-business, liberal Free Democrats.Some small comfort was taken today at news from the federal statistics office which showed that, despite the crisis, Germany remained slightly ahead of China as the world's largest exporter. And business confidence unexpectedly rose this month based on the news of the package, according to German business mood barometer the Ifo Index, which polled 7,000 firms.The International Monetary Fund expects the German economy to contract by 2.5% this year.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Global recession", "Economics", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Germany approves \u20ac50bn stimulus package"},{"date": "2009-03-12T13:13:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The 17-year-old boy who killed 15 people in a gun rampage in south-west Germany yesterday had warned on an internet chat\u00adroom the night before that he would go to his old school and do something big the following day, German authorities said today.Tim Kretschmer shot nine pupils and three teachers at the Albertville secondary school in Winnenden on Wednesday morning. He killed another three people before he was shot dead by police.At a press conference this afternoon, police said Kretschmer had begun having psychiatric sessions last year but stopped attending in September. One of Kretschmer's killings was at the mental health clinic he had attended.Heribert Rech, interior minister of the south-western state of Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg, said Kretschmer went on to an internet chatroom in the early hours of Wednesday where he wrote: \"I've had enough. I'm fed up of this pointless life. Always the same. Everybody laughs at me. No one sees my potential. I'm serious. I have weapons and I will go to my old school in the morning and have a proper barbecue. Maybe I'll get away. Listen out. You will hear about me tomorrow. Remember the place's name: Winnenden.\"A 17-year-old boy from Bavaria was in the chatroom at the time and last night told his father, who reported it to the police.According to a police spokesman, Klaus Hinderer, analysis of Kretschmer's computer has shown that the teenager had become an avid player of shoot-em-up video games, particularly one called Counter-Strike, in recent months.It emerged in German reports today that the headteacher was able to warn teachers with a pre-arranged code over the public address system when Kretschmer burst in, possibly preventing him from killing any more than 12 .Students said the principal quickly broadcast a coded message to teachers: \"Frau Koma is coming.\"\"Then our teacher closed the door and said we should close the windows and sit on the floor,\" a student, identified only as Kim S, told ZDF television.In German the word \"amoklauf\" is used to describe mass shootings, and \"koma\" is the reverse of the word \"amok.\" Germany's Bild newspaper reported the coded alert was worked out by German educators after a deadly school shooting in Erfurt in 2002 as a way to warn teachers.An amateur video has emerged showing Kretschmer's final moments. The boy, wearing dark clothing, can be seen walking unsteadily between parked cars in front of a car dealership. Minutes before, Kretschmer had shot a sales assistant and a customer inside. He left the showroom and was confronted by waiting police marksmen. Kretschmer can be seen on the video apparently reloading his gun before he slumps to the floor, hit in the leg by a police bullet.It emerged today that Kretschmer sent a letter to his parents saying he was desperately unhappy and \"couldn't go on\".Kretschmer wrote the note three weeks ago and gave it to his mother and father, said Fabienne B\u00f6hm, who met Kretschmer recently through a friend. \"He wrote to his parents that he's suffering and he can't go on,\" she told the Associated Press.As investigators began their first full day of inquiries into the massacre, German media began to release the names of Kretschmer's victims, but local police refused to confirm the details.Flags are flying at half-mast across Germany in mourning for the 15 people killed by the 9mm Beretta pistol police believe he took from his parents' bedroom.A shrine of flowers and candles has formed in front of the three-storey school building where Kretschmer killed eight girls, one boy and three female teachers. Many cards left there paid tribute to those lost. One, pinned down by a cherub statuette and two single flowers, read simply: \"Why?\"That question, among others, will be foremost in the minds of police as they attempt to establish what could have motivated an apparently normal young man to perpetrate an act of such horror.Despite 11 of the victims being female, officials remained reticent about the possibility that Kretschmer had deliberately targeted girls, suggesting instead the gender imbalance could have been due to positioning in the classroom. \"I don't want to speculate too much about this at this point,\" said Heribert Rech, the interior minister of Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg. \"The pupils sitting nearest the door were girls.\"Testimonies of friends and acquaintances today portray the table tennis champion as a lonely and frustrated person who felt rejected by society. A 17-year-old who gave his name as Aki said he had been studying alongside Kretschmer at a private business school in the region and described him as a quiet and reserved boy who enjoyed playing Counter-Strike, a multi-player game that involves carrying out assassinations to complete missions. \"He was good,\" he said.Other friends said he had kept dozens of air guns in his bedroom and had taken after his father in his love of guns and weaponry. According to B\u00f6hm, 12, Kretschmer had complained of being teased by his fellow students and ignored by his teachers while at Albertville.Today a team of school and police psychologists was due to arrive in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg to assist the bereaved and survivors of the attack. One trauma specialist, Christian Luedke, told the Neue Presse newspaper the current site of Albertsville school should be closed for good. \"The school has become a crime scene,\" he said. \"No more lessons can take place there.\"", "tags": ["Germany", "Schools", "World news", "Education", "Gun crime", "Europe"], "title": "Germany school killer gave warning in chatroom"},{"date": "2009-01-10T00:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "In the film Valkyrie, Tom Cruise plays Colonel Claus Schenk von Stauffenberg, the man who, on 20 July 1944, placed a bomb next to Hitler in his east Prussian headquarters, the Wolf's Lair. The bomb failed to kill Hitler, merely blowing his trousers to ribbons. That night, when the coup was seen to have failed, Stauffenberg was shot in the courtyard of the army headquarters in Berlin on the orders of General Fromm, his superior, who was in on the plot and hoped - in vain - to save himself. Sandbags were piled in the courtyard and the lights of staff cars illuminated the victims. Von Haeften, his aide, threw himself in front of Stauffenberg. He and two others were also shot that night and their bodies quickly buried. Stauffenberg died with the words \"Long live our sacred Germany\" on his lips, or perhaps - some heard - \"Long live our secret Germany\". In German, there is even less difference between the words \"sacred\" and \"secret\" than there is in English.The producers of Valkyrie have muffled his last words; the story behind secret Germany does not figure in their script, but they were clearly aware of its significance. Within a few weeks, 80 plotters had been executed in Pl\u00f6tzensee prison by slow strangulation, hung from meathooks; in all, at least 3,000 were killed and many children, including Stauffenberg's, were taken from their families and placed in orphanages. Many of those executed were from Germany's most distinguished families, people who, like Stauffenberg, were appalled by the direction Germany had taken, both in relation to the Jews and to the disastrous war in the east.The film is true to most of the facts of the plot, but fails to convey any sense of the catastrophic moral and political vortex into which Germans were being drawn. Nor does it give much sense of the immense charisma of Stauffenberg, to whom generals and politicians deferred and who had for some time been tipped as a future chief of staff. A revealing private memoir I was given, which describes a visit shortly before the bomb plot by Stauffenberg to one of the other resister's houses, suggests that the female staff were sent into paroxysms of adoration by the wounded hero. And the film gives no indication at all of Stauffenberg's background and philosophy: he fitted perfectly into the German tradition of Dichter und Helden, poets and heroes. For a start, he looked the part, tall with classical features; he was often compared to a medieval statue of a knight in the cathedral at Bamberg, his home town, and his wedding in this cathedral in 1933 to Nina von Lerchenfeld was a huge social event. Even Hitler believed that Stauffenberg was the embodiment of a German hero.So when the generals failed in their plots against Hitler - there were as many as 15 of them - someone was needed to head the disparate but substantial resistance, which extended from the army into the Foreign Office, the secret services and to important clerics and trade unionists. Stauffenberg was persuaded by his uncle, Nikolaus Graf von \u00dcxk\u00fcll, long disenchanted with the Nazis, that he should lead the movement. It seemed that he was the man who unmistakably wore the mantle of a near-mystic German past, a warrior Germany, a noble Germany, a poetic Germany, a Germany of myth and longing.There is nothing in the script or in Cruise's performance that explores these particularly German preoccupations. At times Cruise looks and sounds like the troublesome cop who has been given a tricky assignment, with 24 hours to get the bad guy before he has to hand in his badge: the assassination attempt is treated as a thriller. It lacks the intelligent understanding that Florian von Donnersmarck brought to The Lives of Others (2006), as people from different backgrounds, and with wildly different ideas of what Germany should become, tried to work together. Stauffenberg's stroke of genius was to subvert the emergency plan for defending Berlin against insurrection, Valkyrie, into a plan for a putsch after Hitler had been killed. As Hitler became more paranoid, it seemed that Stauffenberg was the only one who had both the access and the resolve to kill him. He was fully aware that the chances of success were slim, but he felt that he needed to demonstrate to the world that there was a better Germany - what he thought of as secret Germany - and perhaps that he was the agent of history.When I was writing my book The Song Before it is Sung, about a conspirator in the bomb plot, I was puzzled for some time that the British refused to trust the various overtures from the resistance in Germany. Stauffenberg was a close friend and confidant of Adam von Trott, the Rhodes scholar who was also deeply involved in the resistance and executed a few weeks after the July plot. I also pondered the question of why Trott's friend at Oxford, Isaiah Berlin, a magnanimous and generous man, came to distrust him, and I wondered why, 30 years later, he wrote in a letter to Shiela Grant Duff, who knew them both well, saying that Trott was no hero and \"not on our side\". What he saw, I think, is that in ideas of a mythic German past, and in the belief in a historical destiny, lay the genesis of Nazism. The idea of a noble Germany, uncorrupted by racial inferiors and alien philosophies, a Germany that would be led by a world figure, was not invented by Hitler. Long before he came along, the simple word F\u00fchrer - leader - had been turned into something messianic, and I think Berlin knew where the blame lay. During their walks and discussions in Oxford, Berlin often said to Trott that when he was at a loss, he turned to Hegel. Hegel believed, essentially, that history had a forward motion to a point where all contradictions would be resolved. It is ironic that Stauffenberg's son should have been contemptuous of the notion of Tom Cruise playing his father, on the grounds that he is a cultist, because Claus Schenk von Stauffenberg and his two brothers, Berthold and Alexander, were themselves members of a cult that formed around a mythical secret Germany; their master was the poet Stefan George. George is a sinister figure, but in an American newspaper article of the 1920s he was rated one of the most important men in the world. Hardly remembered and little read today, he was a poet who rivalled H\u00f6lderlin and Schiller in his fame.The Stauffenberg family had held the title of \"Schenk\", which meant \"cup-bearer\", since the 13th century, an honour bestowed on them by the Hohenstaufens, the legendary monarchical family of Swabia who also ruled Sicily in the middle ages. At the time of Stauffenberg's birth in 1907, his family was to be found at the Altes Schloss in Stuttgart, in the service of the W\u00fcrttemberg monarchy. The Stauffenbergs were a family steeped in tradition, highly cultured, highly regarded. It was hardly surprising that Stefan George welcomed these good-looking and aristocratic brothers into his circle. This may in part have been because of the homoerotic element in his movement, but it was also because the Stauffenbergs represented everything George felt had been lost in Germany - the medieval greatness of the Hohenstaufen Friedrich II and the warrior qualities of the Teutonic Knights. Poetry was to lead the way back to greatness, and George was Germany's poet; he and his disciples propagated the notion of a unique German-ness, Deutschtum, which was traced back to Friedrich II. Members of the George circle were subject to some bizarre rules. Only Claus von Stauffenberg kept his own name, presumably because of its flattering historical resonances. His brother Berthold was told not to marry the woman he loved, and he obeyed, at least until George was dead. But even after the war, the surviving brother, Alexander, eulogised George as the spokesman of something uniquely German. G\u00f6ring revered him too, and after the Nazi takeover of 1933 wanted to instate him as the head of an academy of poetry. George replied that he had for a long time been the leader of German poetry, and didn't need an academy. His circle had many Jewish members, but his views became broadly antisemitic as the Nazis became more important. None the less, he fled to Switzerland and died before it was completely clear where he stood on national socialism. The Stauffenberg brothers were made George's heirs, and after his death tended his grave in Switzerland and continued to organise candlelit readings of his poetry. As the war progressed, Stauffenberg enjoyed a rapid rise in the army. He was at first enthusiastic about military successes on the eastern front, but had for some time been deeply alarmed by Hitler: Kristallnacht had disgusted him, particularly as his brother was married to someone of Jewish descent. He quickly became aware that the SS, the SD and the Gestapo were creating a lasting legacy of hatred that would one day be avenged. He began to seek out like-minded officers and spoke at times quite openly about his fears for Germany and the army. Sometimes he recited George's poem \"The Antichrist\" to support his argument. As the advance east was halted, it became more urgent to end the war with at least something of Germany intact. Stauffenberg had particular cause for alarm: he was in charge of logistics for the 10th Panzers and knew that for every thousand casualties, only 300 replacements could be found - disaster was inevitable. At the same time he found himself increasingly appalled by the indiscriminate killing of Jews, Slavs and Russian prisoners, and by the SS battalions' unbridled lust for murder, which was having a corrupting effect on the army too. He often ignored or changed orders: he managed to thwart an order that all Russian prisoners should be tattooed on their buttocks. After Stalingrad, his outspokenness caused some of his superiors to decide that he should be sent to north Africa, which was relatively free of the SS. There he was severely wounded, losing part of his right arm, one eye and two fingers on his left hand. Through determination he made a dramatic recovery and found himself second in command of the home army in Berlin, under General Fromm, and was also appointed to the general staff, which gave him access to Hitler. After his first visit to the Berghof, he described the atmosphere there as \"stale, paralysing, rotten and degenerate\". A few months later, he primed the bomb with the three fingers of his left hand and placed it beside Hitler. The question the film does not raise is what kind of Germany Stauffenberg envisaged had the coup succeeded, which in all probability it would have, had Hitler been killed. Stefan George's poem \"Secret Germany\" was the inspiration for Stauffenberg's oath of mutual intent for the conspirators, which was typed by his brother Berthold's secretary: We want a new order which makes all Germans responsible for the state and guarantees them law and justice; but we despise the lie that all are equal and we submit to rank ordained by nature. We want a people with roots in their native land, close to the powers of nature, finding happiness and contentment in the given environment, and overcoming, in freedom and pride, the base instincts of envy and jealousy. We want leaders who ... are in harmony with the divine powers and set an example to others by their noble spirit, discipline and sacrifice.When Stauffenberg's body was burned, a ring was lost with it. Engraved on it were the words FINIS INITIUM, which is drawn from another of George's poems with the final line \"I am the end and the beginning\". This wasn't the Germany that the allies had in mind.\u2022 Valkyrie (12A) is released on 23 January", "tags": ["Tom Cruise", "Period and historical", "Thriller", "Film", "Culture", "Adolf Hitler", "World news", "Valkyrie"], "title": "Valkyrie: Tom Cruise and the plot to kill Hitler"},{"date": "2009-03-26T10:13:50Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government is set to extend the \u20ac2,500 (\u00a32,330) scrappage premium for consumers who trade in their 10-year-old cars for new, fuel-efficient models, it emerged last night.The news puts added pressure on the UK government to adopt a similar scheme to boost demand in Britain where car production fell 59% last month and sales are collapsing.The UK industry body, the SMMT, has for weeks been urging Lord Mandelson, business secretary, and cabinet colleagues to offer \u00a32,000 per new car in a British version of a programme now adopted in a dozen EU countries.Chancellor Angela Merkel and her deputy and foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, reached a deal that the scheme could be extended until the end of this year. But they are yet to fix the size of the bonus in a second stage.German consumer demand has been so strong that dealers are reporting that the programme, costing \u20ac1.5bn, may run out over Easter. It has attracted 570,000 new buyers \u2013 close to Berlin's ceiling of 600,000, they say.Official figures suggest that around 350,000 orders have been placed under the scheme but these are said to have under-estimated the scale of the rush to car showrooms \u2013 mainly for smaller cars rather than BMWs, Mercedes or Porsches.Some industry executives are angry that non-German makes such as Romania's Dacia, France's Renault and Peugeot Citroen and Japan's Toyota have benefited at their expense.Berlin's grand coalition government is said to be ready to consider the extension because sales have boosted demand and growth in an economy that could shrink between 5% and 7% this year and see unemployment rise to 4 million.Ministers have also accepted industry executives' arguments that the scrappage bonus is virtually self-financing, with current sales levels likely to boost VAT yields by \u20ac1.3bn \u2013 only \u20ac200,000 short of the exchequer's gross cost.The agreed extension is also expected to go down well with voters in a general election year dominated, inter alia, by the depth of the recession \u2013 and the undecided \u20ac3.3bn rescue of Opel, the German arm of General Motors which employs 25,000 directly and 300,000 indirectly.A less generous scheme in France, worth \u20ac1,000 for each car, has also boosted sales, prompting Renault to move production of a Clio model back to France and create 400 jobs. This has provoked widespread criticism of French protectionism.Yesterday MEPs urged the EU to adopt a united European response to help the industry and avoid protectionist measures. They want the European Investment Bank and other bodies to speed up loans and guarantees for the industryGlenis Willmott, leader of the Labour MEPs, said: \"It is vital we act now to protect our car manufacturing industry and those connected to the industry as we cannot afford to let it go to the wall.\" She called for EU guidelines for scrappage schemes.Welcoming the move, Ivan Hodac, secretary general of the European carmakers' body ACEA, said: \"The auto industry is essential to the EU economy. It is the engine of manufacturing, one of the biggest employers in Europe, the largest investor in innovation and R&D, and a formidable export force.\"", "tags": ["Car scrappage", "Automotive industry", "Business", "Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany extends car scrappage scheme"},{"date": "2009-01-27T14:16:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Chancellor Angela Merkel's cabinet approved a \u20ac50bn (\u00a346.7bn) stimulus package today, the biggest programme in Europe, to tackle overcome the country's deepest economic crisis since the second world war.The package will require a new borrowing level of \u20ac36.8bn, more than twice the amount planned for 2009 before the impact of the global crisis on Europe's largest economy was realised. It is also more than three times the amount forecast in the middle of last year. A controversial draft supplementary budget is planned to cover the leap in borrowing.The programme is equivalent to 1.6% of gross domestic product, and is the biggest of its kind in German history. In the UK, the government unveiled fiscal stimulus measures totalling some \u00a320bn in last year's pre-budget report.The German package includes \u20ac17.3bn of investment in the country's infrastructure, as well as tax cuts, a one-off \u20ac100 child bonus, and an increase in some social benefits. A boost to the car industry in the form of an \"old banger bounty\" will offer people the chance to trade in cars more than nine years old and to receive a \u20ac2,500 bonus towards a new or slightly used car.The car industry has been one of the worst hit as exports, particularly to the US, have tumbled, causing a record slump in German manufacturing orders.Peer Steinbr\u00fcck, the finance minister, came under attack for the package, which some experts estimated would cause national debt to rise in real terms to as much as \u20ac74.3bn.\"Steinbr\u00fcck is the minister of record debt,\" said Otto Fricke of the pro-business, liberal Free Democrats.Some small comfort was taken today at news from the federal statistics office which showed that, despite the crisis, Germany remained slightly ahead of China as the world's largest exporter. And business confidence unexpectedly rose this month based on the news of the package, according to German business mood barometer the Ifo Index, which polled 7,000 firms.The International Monetary Fund expects the German economy to contract by 2.5% this year.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Global recession", "Economics", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Germany approves \u20ac50bn stimulus package"},{"date": "2009-03-12T13:13:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The 17-year-old boy who killed 15 people in a gun rampage in south-west Germany yesterday had warned on an internet chat\u00adroom the night before that he would go to his old school and do something big the following day, German authorities said today.Tim Kretschmer shot nine pupils and three teachers at the Albertville secondary school in Winnenden on Wednesday morning. He killed another three people before he was shot dead by police.At a press conference this afternoon, police said Kretschmer had begun having psychiatric sessions last year but stopped attending in September. One of Kretschmer's killings was at the mental health clinic he had attended.Heribert Rech, interior minister of the south-western state of Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg, said Kretschmer went on to an internet chatroom in the early hours of Wednesday where he wrote: \"I've had enough. I'm fed up of this pointless life. Always the same. Everybody laughs at me. No one sees my potential. I'm serious. I have weapons and I will go to my old school in the morning and have a proper barbecue. Maybe I'll get away. Listen out. You will hear about me tomorrow. Remember the place's name: Winnenden.\"A 17-year-old boy from Bavaria was in the chatroom at the time and last night told his father, who reported it to the police.According to a police spokesman, Klaus Hinderer, analysis of Kretschmer's computer has shown that the teenager had become an avid player of shoot-em-up video games, particularly one called Counter-Strike, in recent months.It emerged in German reports today that the headteacher was able to warn teachers with a pre-arranged code over the public address system when Kretschmer burst in, possibly preventing him from killing any more than 12 .Students said the principal quickly broadcast a coded message to teachers: \"Frau Koma is coming.\"\"Then our teacher closed the door and said we should close the windows and sit on the floor,\" a student, identified only as Kim S, told ZDF television.In German the word \"amoklauf\" is used to describe mass shootings, and \"koma\" is the reverse of the word \"amok.\" Germany's Bild newspaper reported the coded alert was worked out by German educators after a deadly school shooting in Erfurt in 2002 as a way to warn teachers.An amateur video has emerged showing Kretschmer's final moments. The boy, wearing dark clothing, can be seen walking unsteadily between parked cars in front of a car dealership. Minutes before, Kretschmer had shot a sales assistant and a customer inside. He left the showroom and was confronted by waiting police marksmen. Kretschmer can be seen on the video apparently reloading his gun before he slumps to the floor, hit in the leg by a police bullet.It emerged today that Kretschmer sent a letter to his parents saying he was desperately unhappy and \"couldn't go on\".Kretschmer wrote the note three weeks ago and gave it to his mother and father, said Fabienne B\u00f6hm, who met Kretschmer recently through a friend. \"He wrote to his parents that he's suffering and he can't go on,\" she told the Associated Press.As investigators began their first full day of inquiries into the massacre, German media began to release the names of Kretschmer's victims, but local police refused to confirm the details.Flags are flying at half-mast across Germany in mourning for the 15 people killed by the 9mm Beretta pistol police believe he took from his parents' bedroom.A shrine of flowers and candles has formed in front of the three-storey school building where Kretschmer killed eight girls, one boy and three female teachers. Many cards left there paid tribute to those lost. One, pinned down by a cherub statuette and two single flowers, read simply: \"Why?\"That question, among others, will be foremost in the minds of police as they attempt to establish what could have motivated an apparently normal young man to perpetrate an act of such horror.Despite 11 of the victims being female, officials remained reticent about the possibility that Kretschmer had deliberately targeted girls, suggesting instead the gender imbalance could have been due to positioning in the classroom. \"I don't want to speculate too much about this at this point,\" said Heribert Rech, the interior minister of Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg. \"The pupils sitting nearest the door were girls.\"Testimonies of friends and acquaintances today portray the table tennis champion as a lonely and frustrated person who felt rejected by society. A 17-year-old who gave his name as Aki said he had been studying alongside Kretschmer at a private business school in the region and described him as a quiet and reserved boy who enjoyed playing Counter-Strike, a multi-player game that involves carrying out assassinations to complete missions. \"He was good,\" he said.Other friends said he had kept dozens of air guns in his bedroom and had taken after his father in his love of guns and weaponry. According to B\u00f6hm, 12, Kretschmer had complained of being teased by his fellow students and ignored by his teachers while at Albertville.Today a team of school and police psychologists was due to arrive in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg to assist the bereaved and survivors of the attack. One trauma specialist, Christian Luedke, told the Neue Presse newspaper the current site of Albertsville school should be closed for good. \"The school has become a crime scene,\" he said. \"No more lessons can take place there.\"", "tags": ["Germany", "Schools", "World news", "Education", "Gun crime", "Europe"], "title": "Germany school killer gave warning in chatroom"},{"date": "2009-01-25T15:39:10Z", "country": "germany", "content": "David Gow BrusselsThe German government is poised to do a U-turn and approve several \"bad banks\" to take over its banks' toxic assets for up to five years as the financial crisis and recession deepen.German banks are estimated to have between \u20ac300bn (\u00a3285bn) and \u20ac1tn of these assets sitting on their books, adding to the pressure on Berlin to act. The total of bad assets held by banks across Europe could be as high as \u20ac4.8tn.Private sector banks and Landesbanken, or state-owned regional banks, in Germany are due to declare multibillion losses for 2008. Deutsche Bank, the country's biggest, has already indicated a near-\u20ac4bn loss and BayernLB, the Bavarian regional bank, one of \u20ac5bn.This dire situation has emerged as eurozone and EU governments consider handing the European Central Bank the lead role in supervising Europe's 46 big cross-\u00adborder banks in the wake of the crisis that saw the nationalised Fortis bank of Belgium indicate last week it had lost close to \u20ac20bn last year.Chancellor Angela Merkel and her finance minister, Peer Steinbr\u00fcck, are under pressure from leading Bundestag deputies of their respective parties \u2014 the Christian (CDU) and Social (SPD) Democrats \u2014 to draw up a second bank rescue plan on top of the current \u20ac480bn scheme.Steinbr\u00fcck has been the most vocal opponent of the notion of a bad bank, and his spokesman said late last week that there could be no question of nationalisation. CDU experts said a \"state-financed toxic waste dump\" was out of the question. The finance minister has also sharply queried Britain's latest scheme to insure the banks' toxic assets, saying that nobody could price these and they could potentially amount to up to 30% of banks' balance sheets.But Berlin's \"grand coalition\" is now reportedly coming round to the notion of adopting a solution whereby individual banks would park their toxic assets in separate bad banks. The state would guarantee these as they were unwound and sold off over the next few years.The new Obama administration in the US is also reportedly considering a bad banks solution as EU governments pile the pressure on the banks to come clean about how big their exposure is.On February 25 an independent body of advisers, led by Jacques de Larosi\u00e8re, the ex-Bank of France chairman, is due to propose an overarching supervisory role for the ECB to prevent a recurrence of the crisis. This will come in a report to the European commission. Both he and the current French central bank chairman, Christian Noyer, have pinpointed the ECB as a more viable solution than the current system of cross-border supervisors, including the City-based Committee of European Banking Supervisors.But David Wright, deputy head of the European commission's internal market department, has insisted that the banks must first own up to the scale of their toxic assets. \"How can you deal with the problem if you don't know where it is? Even today we are struggling to define the size of the problem,\" he said on Friday.The UK government, pressing British and other European banks to come clean, is already casting a wary eye on the proposed new ECB role, given the once-mighty position of the City as the EU's leading financial centre.", "tags": ["Banking", "Germany", "Credit crunch", "Europe"], "title": "Germany looks at new bank rescue plan"},{"date": "2009-01-10T00:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "In the film Valkyrie, Tom Cruise plays Colonel Claus Schenk von Stauffenberg, the man who, on 20 July 1944, placed a bomb next to Hitler in his east Prussian headquarters, the Wolf's Lair. The bomb failed to kill Hitler, merely blowing his trousers to ribbons. That night, when the coup was seen to have failed, Stauffenberg was shot in the courtyard of the army headquarters in Berlin on the orders of General Fromm, his superior, who was in on the plot and hoped - in vain - to save himself. Sandbags were piled in the courtyard and the lights of staff cars illuminated the victims. Von Haeften, his aide, threw himself in front of Stauffenberg. He and two others were also shot that night and their bodies quickly buried. Stauffenberg died with the words \"Long live our sacred Germany\" on his lips, or perhaps - some heard - \"Long live our secret Germany\". In German, there is even less difference between the words \"sacred\" and \"secret\" than there is in English.The producers of Valkyrie have muffled his last words; the story behind secret Germany does not figure in their script, but they were clearly aware of its significance. Within a few weeks, 80 plotters had been executed in Pl\u00f6tzensee prison by slow strangulation, hung from meathooks; in all, at least 3,000 were killed and many children, including Stauffenberg's, were taken from their families and placed in orphanages. Many of those executed were from Germany's most distinguished families, people who, like Stauffenberg, were appalled by the direction Germany had taken, both in relation to the Jews and to the disastrous war in the east.The film is true to most of the facts of the plot, but fails to convey any sense of the catastrophic moral and political vortex into which Germans were being drawn. Nor does it give much sense of the immense charisma of Stauffenberg, to whom generals and politicians deferred and who had for some time been tipped as a future chief of staff. A revealing private memoir I was given, which describes a visit shortly before the bomb plot by Stauffenberg to one of the other resister's houses, suggests that the female staff were sent into paroxysms of adoration by the wounded hero. And the film gives no indication at all of Stauffenberg's background and philosophy: he fitted perfectly into the German tradition of Dichter und Helden, poets and heroes. For a start, he looked the part, tall with classical features; he was often compared to a medieval statue of a knight in the cathedral at Bamberg, his home town, and his wedding in this cathedral in 1933 to Nina von Lerchenfeld was a huge social event. Even Hitler believed that Stauffenberg was the embodiment of a German hero.So when the generals failed in their plots against Hitler - there were as many as 15 of them - someone was needed to head the disparate but substantial resistance, which extended from the army into the Foreign Office, the secret services and to important clerics and trade unionists. Stauffenberg was persuaded by his uncle, Nikolaus Graf von \u00dcxk\u00fcll, long disenchanted with the Nazis, that he should lead the movement. It seemed that he was the man who unmistakably wore the mantle of a near-mystic German past, a warrior Germany, a noble Germany, a poetic Germany, a Germany of myth and longing.There is nothing in the script or in Cruise's performance that explores these particularly German preoccupations. At times Cruise looks and sounds like the troublesome cop who has been given a tricky assignment, with 24 hours to get the bad guy before he has to hand in his badge: the assassination attempt is treated as a thriller. It lacks the intelligent understanding that Florian von Donnersmarck brought to The Lives of Others (2006), as people from different backgrounds, and with wildly different ideas of what Germany should become, tried to work together. Stauffenberg's stroke of genius was to subvert the emergency plan for defending Berlin against insurrection, Valkyrie, into a plan for a putsch after Hitler had been killed. As Hitler became more paranoid, it seemed that Stauffenberg was the only one who had both the access and the resolve to kill him. He was fully aware that the chances of success were slim, but he felt that he needed to demonstrate to the world that there was a better Germany - what he thought of as secret Germany - and perhaps that he was the agent of history.When I was writing my book The Song Before it is Sung, about a conspirator in the bomb plot, I was puzzled for some time that the British refused to trust the various overtures from the resistance in Germany. Stauffenberg was a close friend and confidant of Adam von Trott, the Rhodes scholar who was also deeply involved in the resistance and executed a few weeks after the July plot. I also pondered the question of why Trott's friend at Oxford, Isaiah Berlin, a magnanimous and generous man, came to distrust him, and I wondered why, 30 years later, he wrote in a letter to Shiela Grant Duff, who knew them both well, saying that Trott was no hero and \"not on our side\". What he saw, I think, is that in ideas of a mythic German past, and in the belief in a historical destiny, lay the genesis of Nazism. The idea of a noble Germany, uncorrupted by racial inferiors and alien philosophies, a Germany that would be led by a world figure, was not invented by Hitler. Long before he came along, the simple word F\u00fchrer - leader - had been turned into something messianic, and I think Berlin knew where the blame lay. During their walks and discussions in Oxford, Berlin often said to Trott that when he was at a loss, he turned to Hegel. Hegel believed, essentially, that history had a forward motion to a point where all contradictions would be resolved. It is ironic that Stauffenberg's son should have been contemptuous of the notion of Tom Cruise playing his father, on the grounds that he is a cultist, because Claus Schenk von Stauffenberg and his two brothers, Berthold and Alexander, were themselves members of a cult that formed around a mythical secret Germany; their master was the poet Stefan George. George is a sinister figure, but in an American newspaper article of the 1920s he was rated one of the most important men in the world. Hardly remembered and little read today, he was a poet who rivalled H\u00f6lderlin and Schiller in his fame.The Stauffenberg family had held the title of \"Schenk\", which meant \"cup-bearer\", since the 13th century, an honour bestowed on them by the Hohenstaufens, the legendary monarchical family of Swabia who also ruled Sicily in the middle ages. At the time of Stauffenberg's birth in 1907, his family was to be found at the Altes Schloss in Stuttgart, in the service of the W\u00fcrttemberg monarchy. The Stauffenbergs were a family steeped in tradition, highly cultured, highly regarded. It was hardly surprising that Stefan George welcomed these good-looking and aristocratic brothers into his circle. This may in part have been because of the homoerotic element in his movement, but it was also because the Stauffenbergs represented everything George felt had been lost in Germany - the medieval greatness of the Hohenstaufen Friedrich II and the warrior qualities of the Teutonic Knights. Poetry was to lead the way back to greatness, and George was Germany's poet; he and his disciples propagated the notion of a unique German-ness, Deutschtum, which was traced back to Friedrich II. Members of the George circle were subject to some bizarre rules. Only Claus von Stauffenberg kept his own name, presumably because of its flattering historical resonances. His brother Berthold was told not to marry the woman he loved, and he obeyed, at least until George was dead. But even after the war, the surviving brother, Alexander, eulogised George as the spokesman of something uniquely German. G\u00f6ring revered him too, and after the Nazi takeover of 1933 wanted to instate him as the head of an academy of poetry. George replied that he had for a long time been the leader of German poetry, and didn't need an academy. His circle had many Jewish members, but his views became broadly antisemitic as the Nazis became more important. None the less, he fled to Switzerland and died before it was completely clear where he stood on national socialism. The Stauffenberg brothers were made George's heirs, and after his death tended his grave in Switzerland and continued to organise candlelit readings of his poetry. As the war progressed, Stauffenberg enjoyed a rapid rise in the army. He was at first enthusiastic about military successes on the eastern front, but had for some time been deeply alarmed by Hitler: Kristallnacht had disgusted him, particularly as his brother was married to someone of Jewish descent. He quickly became aware that the SS, the SD and the Gestapo were creating a lasting legacy of hatred that would one day be avenged. He began to seek out like-minded officers and spoke at times quite openly about his fears for Germany and the army. Sometimes he recited George's poem \"The Antichrist\" to support his argument. As the advance east was halted, it became more urgent to end the war with at least something of Germany intact. Stauffenberg had particular cause for alarm: he was in charge of logistics for the 10th Panzers and knew that for every thousand casualties, only 300 replacements could be found - disaster was inevitable. At the same time he found himself increasingly appalled by the indiscriminate killing of Jews, Slavs and Russian prisoners, and by the SS battalions' unbridled lust for murder, which was having a corrupting effect on the army too. He often ignored or changed orders: he managed to thwart an order that all Russian prisoners should be tattooed on their buttocks. After Stalingrad, his outspokenness caused some of his superiors to decide that he should be sent to north Africa, which was relatively free of the SS. There he was severely wounded, losing part of his right arm, one eye and two fingers on his left hand. Through determination he made a dramatic recovery and found himself second in command of the home army in Berlin, under General Fromm, and was also appointed to the general staff, which gave him access to Hitler. After his first visit to the Berghof, he described the atmosphere there as \"stale, paralysing, rotten and degenerate\". A few months later, he primed the bomb with the three fingers of his left hand and placed it beside Hitler. The question the film does not raise is what kind of Germany Stauffenberg envisaged had the coup succeeded, which in all probability it would have, had Hitler been killed. Stefan George's poem \"Secret Germany\" was the inspiration for Stauffenberg's oath of mutual intent for the conspirators, which was typed by his brother Berthold's secretary: We want a new order which makes all Germans responsible for the state and guarantees them law and justice; but we despise the lie that all are equal and we submit to rank ordained by nature. We want a people with roots in their native land, close to the powers of nature, finding happiness and contentment in the given environment, and overcoming, in freedom and pride, the base instincts of envy and jealousy. We want leaders who ... are in harmony with the divine powers and set an example to others by their noble spirit, discipline and sacrifice.When Stauffenberg's body was burned, a ring was lost with it. Engraved on it were the words FINIS INITIUM, which is drawn from another of George's poems with the final line \"I am the end and the beginning\". This wasn't the Germany that the allies had in mind.\u2022 Valkyrie (12A) is released on 23 January", "tags": ["Tom Cruise", "Period and historical", "Thriller", "Film", "Culture", "Adolf Hitler", "World news", "Valkyrie"], "title": "Valkyrie: Tom Cruise and the plot to kill Hitler"},{"date": "2009-03-26T10:13:50Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government is set to extend the \u20ac2,500 (\u00a32,330) scrappage premium for consumers who trade in their 10-year-old cars for new, fuel-efficient models, it emerged last night.The news puts added pressure on the UK government to adopt a similar scheme to boost demand in Britain where car production fell 59% last month and sales are collapsing.The UK industry body, the SMMT, has for weeks been urging Lord Mandelson, business secretary, and cabinet colleagues to offer \u00a32,000 per new car in a British version of a programme now adopted in a dozen EU countries.Chancellor Angela Merkel and her deputy and foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, reached a deal that the scheme could be extended until the end of this year. But they are yet to fix the size of the bonus in a second stage.German consumer demand has been so strong that dealers are reporting that the programme, costing \u20ac1.5bn, may run out over Easter. It has attracted 570,000 new buyers \u2013 close to Berlin's ceiling of 600,000, they say.Official figures suggest that around 350,000 orders have been placed under the scheme but these are said to have under-estimated the scale of the rush to car showrooms \u2013 mainly for smaller cars rather than BMWs, Mercedes or Porsches.Some industry executives are angry that non-German makes such as Romania's Dacia, France's Renault and Peugeot Citroen and Japan's Toyota have benefited at their expense.Berlin's grand coalition government is said to be ready to consider the extension because sales have boosted demand and growth in an economy that could shrink between 5% and 7% this year and see unemployment rise to 4 million.Ministers have also accepted industry executives' arguments that the scrappage bonus is virtually self-financing, with current sales levels likely to boost VAT yields by \u20ac1.3bn \u2013 only \u20ac200,000 short of the exchequer's gross cost.The agreed extension is also expected to go down well with voters in a general election year dominated, inter alia, by the depth of the recession \u2013 and the undecided \u20ac3.3bn rescue of Opel, the German arm of General Motors which employs 25,000 directly and 300,000 indirectly.A less generous scheme in France, worth \u20ac1,000 for each car, has also boosted sales, prompting Renault to move production of a Clio model back to France and create 400 jobs. This has provoked widespread criticism of French protectionism.Yesterday MEPs urged the EU to adopt a united European response to help the industry and avoid protectionist measures. They want the European Investment Bank and other bodies to speed up loans and guarantees for the industryGlenis Willmott, leader of the Labour MEPs, said: \"It is vital we act now to protect our car manufacturing industry and those connected to the industry as we cannot afford to let it go to the wall.\" She called for EU guidelines for scrappage schemes.Welcoming the move, Ivan Hodac, secretary general of the European carmakers' body ACEA, said: \"The auto industry is essential to the EU economy. It is the engine of manufacturing, one of the biggest employers in Europe, the largest investor in innovation and R&D, and a formidable export force.\"", "tags": ["Car scrappage", "Automotive industry", "Business", "Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany extends car scrappage scheme"},{"date": "2009-01-27T14:16:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Chancellor Angela Merkel's cabinet approved a \u20ac50bn (\u00a346.7bn) stimulus package today, the biggest programme in Europe, to tackle overcome the country's deepest economic crisis since the second world war.The package will require a new borrowing level of \u20ac36.8bn, more than twice the amount planned for 2009 before the impact of the global crisis on Europe's largest economy was realised. It is also more than three times the amount forecast in the middle of last year. A controversial draft supplementary budget is planned to cover the leap in borrowing.The programme is equivalent to 1.6% of gross domestic product, and is the biggest of its kind in German history. In the UK, the government unveiled fiscal stimulus measures totalling some \u00a320bn in last year's pre-budget report.The German package includes \u20ac17.3bn of investment in the country's infrastructure, as well as tax cuts, a one-off \u20ac100 child bonus, and an increase in some social benefits. A boost to the car industry in the form of an \"old banger bounty\" will offer people the chance to trade in cars more than nine years old and to receive a \u20ac2,500 bonus towards a new or slightly used car.The car industry has been one of the worst hit as exports, particularly to the US, have tumbled, causing a record slump in German manufacturing orders.Peer Steinbr\u00fcck, the finance minister, came under attack for the package, which some experts estimated would cause national debt to rise in real terms to as much as \u20ac74.3bn.\"Steinbr\u00fcck is the minister of record debt,\" said Otto Fricke of the pro-business, liberal Free Democrats.Some small comfort was taken today at news from the federal statistics office which showed that, despite the crisis, Germany remained slightly ahead of China as the world's largest exporter. And business confidence unexpectedly rose this month based on the news of the package, according to German business mood barometer the Ifo Index, which polled 7,000 firms.The International Monetary Fund expects the German economy to contract by 2.5% this year.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Global recession", "Economics", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Germany approves \u20ac50bn stimulus package"},{"date": "2009-03-12T13:13:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The 17-year-old boy who killed 15 people in a gun rampage in south-west Germany yesterday had warned on an internet chat\u00adroom the night before that he would go to his old school and do something big the following day, German authorities said today.Tim Kretschmer shot nine pupils and three teachers at the Albertville secondary school in Winnenden on Wednesday morning. He killed another three people before he was shot dead by police.At a press conference this afternoon, police said Kretschmer had begun having psychiatric sessions last year but stopped attending in September. One of Kretschmer's killings was at the mental health clinic he had attended.Heribert Rech, interior minister of the south-western state of Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg, said Kretschmer went on to an internet chatroom in the early hours of Wednesday where he wrote: \"I've had enough. I'm fed up of this pointless life. Always the same. Everybody laughs at me. No one sees my potential. I'm serious. I have weapons and I will go to my old school in the morning and have a proper barbecue. Maybe I'll get away. Listen out. You will hear about me tomorrow. Remember the place's name: Winnenden.\"A 17-year-old boy from Bavaria was in the chatroom at the time and last night told his father, who reported it to the police.According to a police spokesman, Klaus Hinderer, analysis of Kretschmer's computer has shown that the teenager had become an avid player of shoot-em-up video games, particularly one called Counter-Strike, in recent months.It emerged in German reports today that the headteacher was able to warn teachers with a pre-arranged code over the public address system when Kretschmer burst in, possibly preventing him from killing any more than 12 .Students said the principal quickly broadcast a coded message to teachers: \"Frau Koma is coming.\"\"Then our teacher closed the door and said we should close the windows and sit on the floor,\" a student, identified only as Kim S, told ZDF television.In German the word \"amoklauf\" is used to describe mass shootings, and \"koma\" is the reverse of the word \"amok.\" Germany's Bild newspaper reported the coded alert was worked out by German educators after a deadly school shooting in Erfurt in 2002 as a way to warn teachers.An amateur video has emerged showing Kretschmer's final moments. The boy, wearing dark clothing, can be seen walking unsteadily between parked cars in front of a car dealership. Minutes before, Kretschmer had shot a sales assistant and a customer inside. He left the showroom and was confronted by waiting police marksmen. Kretschmer can be seen on the video apparently reloading his gun before he slumps to the floor, hit in the leg by a police bullet.It emerged today that Kretschmer sent a letter to his parents saying he was desperately unhappy and \"couldn't go on\".Kretschmer wrote the note three weeks ago and gave it to his mother and father, said Fabienne B\u00f6hm, who met Kretschmer recently through a friend. \"He wrote to his parents that he's suffering and he can't go on,\" she told the Associated Press.As investigators began their first full day of inquiries into the massacre, German media began to release the names of Kretschmer's victims, but local police refused to confirm the details.Flags are flying at half-mast across Germany in mourning for the 15 people killed by the 9mm Beretta pistol police believe he took from his parents' bedroom.A shrine of flowers and candles has formed in front of the three-storey school building where Kretschmer killed eight girls, one boy and three female teachers. Many cards left there paid tribute to those lost. One, pinned down by a cherub statuette and two single flowers, read simply: \"Why?\"That question, among others, will be foremost in the minds of police as they attempt to establish what could have motivated an apparently normal young man to perpetrate an act of such horror.Despite 11 of the victims being female, officials remained reticent about the possibility that Kretschmer had deliberately targeted girls, suggesting instead the gender imbalance could have been due to positioning in the classroom. \"I don't want to speculate too much about this at this point,\" said Heribert Rech, the interior minister of Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg. \"The pupils sitting nearest the door were girls.\"Testimonies of friends and acquaintances today portray the table tennis champion as a lonely and frustrated person who felt rejected by society. A 17-year-old who gave his name as Aki said he had been studying alongside Kretschmer at a private business school in the region and described him as a quiet and reserved boy who enjoyed playing Counter-Strike, a multi-player game that involves carrying out assassinations to complete missions. \"He was good,\" he said.Other friends said he had kept dozens of air guns in his bedroom and had taken after his father in his love of guns and weaponry. According to B\u00f6hm, 12, Kretschmer had complained of being teased by his fellow students and ignored by his teachers while at Albertville.Today a team of school and police psychologists was due to arrive in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg to assist the bereaved and survivors of the attack. One trauma specialist, Christian Luedke, told the Neue Presse newspaper the current site of Albertsville school should be closed for good. \"The school has become a crime scene,\" he said. \"No more lessons can take place there.\"", "tags": ["Germany", "Schools", "World news", "Education", "Gun crime", "Europe"], "title": "Germany school killer gave warning in chatroom"},{"date": "2009-01-25T15:39:10Z", "country": "germany", "content": "David Gow BrusselsThe German government is poised to do a U-turn and approve several \"bad banks\" to take over its banks' toxic assets for up to five years as the financial crisis and recession deepen.German banks are estimated to have between \u20ac300bn (\u00a3285bn) and \u20ac1tn of these assets sitting on their books, adding to the pressure on Berlin to act. The total of bad assets held by banks across Europe could be as high as \u20ac4.8tn.Private sector banks and Landesbanken, or state-owned regional banks, in Germany are due to declare multibillion losses for 2008. Deutsche Bank, the country's biggest, has already indicated a near-\u20ac4bn loss and BayernLB, the Bavarian regional bank, one of \u20ac5bn.This dire situation has emerged as eurozone and EU governments consider handing the European Central Bank the lead role in supervising Europe's 46 big cross-\u00adborder banks in the wake of the crisis that saw the nationalised Fortis bank of Belgium indicate last week it had lost close to \u20ac20bn last year.Chancellor Angela Merkel and her finance minister, Peer Steinbr\u00fcck, are under pressure from leading Bundestag deputies of their respective parties \u2014 the Christian (CDU) and Social (SPD) Democrats \u2014 to draw up a second bank rescue plan on top of the current \u20ac480bn scheme.Steinbr\u00fcck has been the most vocal opponent of the notion of a bad bank, and his spokesman said late last week that there could be no question of nationalisation. CDU experts said a \"state-financed toxic waste dump\" was out of the question. The finance minister has also sharply queried Britain's latest scheme to insure the banks' toxic assets, saying that nobody could price these and they could potentially amount to up to 30% of banks' balance sheets.But Berlin's \"grand coalition\" is now reportedly coming round to the notion of adopting a solution whereby individual banks would park their toxic assets in separate bad banks. The state would guarantee these as they were unwound and sold off over the next few years.The new Obama administration in the US is also reportedly considering a bad banks solution as EU governments pile the pressure on the banks to come clean about how big their exposure is.On February 25 an independent body of advisers, led by Jacques de Larosi\u00e8re, the ex-Bank of France chairman, is due to propose an overarching supervisory role for the ECB to prevent a recurrence of the crisis. This will come in a report to the European commission. Both he and the current French central bank chairman, Christian Noyer, have pinpointed the ECB as a more viable solution than the current system of cross-border supervisors, including the City-based Committee of European Banking Supervisors.But David Wright, deputy head of the European commission's internal market department, has insisted that the banks must first own up to the scale of their toxic assets. \"How can you deal with the problem if you don't know where it is? Even today we are struggling to define the size of the problem,\" he said on Friday.The UK government, pressing British and other European banks to come clean, is already casting a wary eye on the proposed new ECB role, given the once-mighty position of the City as the EU's leading financial centre.", "tags": ["Banking", "Germany", "Credit crunch", "Europe"], "title": "Germany looks at new bank rescue plan"},{"date": "2009-03-20T00:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, yesterday opened up a new rift with Britain and the United States ahead of the G20 summit in London when she delivered a blunt rejection of extra fiscal stimulus packages as advocated by Gordon Brown and the Obama administration.As European leaders prepared to meet in Brussels to hammer out a common position on the financial and economic crisis before the summit in a fortnight, Merkel insisted the focus of any global recovery plan should be on reining in the markets. \"It is not time to look at more growth measures. I disagree with this idea completely. The existing measures must work, they must be allowed to develop,\" she said in a speech to the Bundestag.\"A competition to outdo each other with promises will not calm the situation,\" she added, describing transatlantic contradictions in response to the crisis as \"very dangerous\".She said: \"We need to send good psychological signals from London and not engage in a competition for unrealisable growth packages. We have already done our part.\"But last night the EU's 27 leaders acknowledged the scale of the crisis threatening to blow both the bloc and the 16-strong eurozone apart when they agreed in principle to double to \u20ac50bn \u00a347bn) a special EU fund to help countries in balance of payments problems. Around \u20ac10bn has already been committed to bailing out Hungary, Latvia and Romania. .The Czech premier, Mirek Topol\u00e1nek, who chaired the meeting, said the increased EU fund could be used to help rescue eurozone countries in trouble, such as Ireland, as well as eastern European states afflicted by soaring deficits, unemployment and mortgage defaults.Germany claimed it had won the argument with the \"Anglo-Americans\" over how to regulate and supervise the financial markets. But differences persisted in Brussels, with No 10 insisting the supervision of financial institutions should remain \"a national competence\". France and Germany demanded \"decisive steps towards a European regulatory framework\" by June.Peer Steinbr\u00fcck, Germany's finance minister, and Merkel said Europe and the US had to reach agreement on common measures to try to stall the slide into worse financial catastrophe. \"We now have decisions that would have been completely inconceivable a year ago,\" Steinbr\u00fcck told the S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung. \"Hedge funds and ratings agencies will be put under state regulation, cross-border banks will be supervised. The very fact that the Anglo-Americans have agreed to the principle 'no market, no actor, no product without supervision' is huge progress.\"Merkel and the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, are pressing for the EU to adopt last month's proposals from a Brussels working group for a European supervisory body that would oversee the City of London for the first time. But British government officials ruled out the pan-European approach. Instead, they said the report on Wednesday from Lord Turner, chairman of the Financial Services Authority, should be the blueprint for EU regulation. The Americans have been pushing for more fiscal stimulus from the Europeans, a position tacitly supported by Brown. But last night British officials dropped such demands, saying fiscal stimulus would not be on the agenda at the EU meeting, which ends today.The EU argues that combined European spending programmes amount to \u20ac400bn and are a match for the White House's, given the different welfare and social security systems in Europe and the US.\"The Americans are claiming they are doing a lot more,\" said a European commission official. \"We're telling the US, you need not give us lectures.\"German resistance to increasing the EU's stimulus package hardened as Steinbr\u00fcck admitted that economic contraction at home could be worse than the 2.25% he has forecast - and France admitted it faced its worst slump for 30 years, with the economy likely to decline by 3%.", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Gordon Brown", "Global recession", "Politics", "Global economy", "UK news", "Obama administration", "US news", "Germany", "World news", "Angela Merkel", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Gordon Brown's plan for recovery rejected by Germany"},{"date": "2009-06-06T10:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "No, we are not lazy, screamed the headline of Germany's best-selling tabloid, Bild, on Thursday. Three politicians from competing parties, from the conservative CDU to the liberal FDP, took an unusual step: please go to vote on Sunday, they begged together. They fear a record low turnout.The desperation is not completely unfounded. Germans seem to be interested in anything else, like the rescue package for carmaker Opel or rising rents in Berlin or what to do with a 100 people-strong family of Roma people, but not in the European elections. Last time, the turnout in Germany was about 42%, in Berlin it was even lower, 38.6%. This time the polls forecast worse. \"What does it have to do with me?\" most voters ask. Not many people actually know what the Strasbourg parliament is good at.Europe has also become a byword in Germany for bureaucracy and silly rules, such as the infamous rule on the curviness of cucumbers. It has been abolished, the three politicians cry in their advert. They add that the administration of Europe only cost \u20ac3 per citizen. \"Not more than a glass of beer,\" they say. Europe \u2013 just another glass of beer? Is that the only thing they could come up with?This is one of the rare moments when one wishes for a politician like Helmut Kohl, the former chancellor, who really was a passionate and devoted European, who used his post-war experience to prevent another horrible division of the continent. They younger generation seems more superficial, just keen on keeping their posts.It also seems wrong that the politicians are suddenly so desperate to raise our interest in Europe, which they largely ignore outside election time. Suddenly they seem to be very keen to get their message across. Even the Chancellor, Angela Merkel, held a rally in Berlin on Thursday to support the CDU candidates. But, one wonders, where have they been for the last five years, and why do we hear so little about the work of MEPs during their tenure?There is a lack of understanding of what MEPs actually do and how effective they are. This is not only the politicians' fault \u2013 outside election times, there is little media reporting to make processes in Brussels more transparent. The main problem, though, is the national government. It has nurtured a hypocritical attitude: the national parties are quick to blame the \"bureaucrats in Brussels\", if it suits them. If there is something voter-friendly coming out of the EU, they claim the success for themselves. When the interior minister recently pretended to have increased refunds for delayed train travel, she was only passing on EU legislation.\u00a0", "tags": ["European elections", "Germany", "European Union", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Europe votes: Is Germany too lazy for Europe? | Sabine Rennefanz"},{"date": "2009-06-06T10:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "No, we are not lazy, screamed the headline of Germany's best-selling tabloid, Bild, on Thursday. Three politicians from competing parties, from the conservative CDU to the liberal FDP, took an unusual step: please go to vote on Sunday, they begged together. They fear a record low turnout.The desperation is not completely unfounded. Germans seem to be interested in anything else, like the rescue package for carmaker Opel or rising rents in Berlin or what to do with a 100 people-strong family of Roma people, but not in the European elections. Last time, the turnout in Germany was about 42%, in Berlin it was even lower, 38.6%. This time the polls forecast worse. \"What does it have to do with me?\" most voters ask. Not many people actually know what the Strasbourg parliament is good at.Europe has also become a byword in Germany for bureaucracy and silly rules, such as the infamous rule on the curviness of cucumbers. It has been abolished, the three politicians cry in their advert. They add that the administration of Europe only cost \u20ac3 per citizen. \"Not more than a glass of beer,\" they say. Europe \u2013 just another glass of beer? Is that the only thing they could come up with?This is one of the rare moments when one wishes for a politician like Helmut Kohl, the former chancellor, who really was a passionate and devoted European, who used his post-war experience to prevent another horrible division of the continent. They younger generation seems more superficial, just keen on keeping their posts.It also seems wrong that the politicians are suddenly so desperate to raise our interest in Europe, which they largely ignore outside election time. Suddenly they seem to be very keen to get their message across. Even the Chancellor, Angela Merkel, held a rally in Berlin on Thursday to support the CDU candidates. But, one wonders, where have they been for the last five years, and why do we hear so little about the work of MEPs during their tenure?There is a lack of understanding of what MEPs actually do and how effective they are. This is not only the politicians' fault \u2013 outside election times, there is little media reporting to make processes in Brussels more transparent. The main problem, though, is the national government. It has nurtured a hypocritical attitude: the national parties are quick to blame the \"bureaucrats in Brussels\", if it suits them. If there is something voter-friendly coming out of the EU, they claim the success for themselves. When the interior minister recently pretended to have increased refunds for delayed train travel, she was only passing on EU legislation.\u00a0", "tags": ["European elections", "Germany", "European Union", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Europe votes: Is Germany too lazy for Europe? | Sabine Rennefanz"},{"date": "2009-05-08T16:06:26Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government is planning to ban paintball and laser shooting games in reaction to the recent school massacre in which 15 people died.Under legislation agreed by the ruling coalition of the chancellor, Angela \u00adMerkel, using air rifles to shoot paint-filled pellets at opponents is likely to be made illegal, and would be punishable with fines of up to \u20ac5,000 (\u00a34,480).The decision, which is expected to be fast-tracked through the Bundestag before the summer recess, comes two months after 17-year-old Tim Kretschmar shot dead 15 people at his former school in Winnenden, south-west Germany, with a weapon he had taken from his father's bedroom. Kretschmar's love of paintball as well as violent video and computer games was widely publicised.The government has found itself under pressure to tighten gun laws in Germany in what has become one of the main issues before a general election in September.\"This so-called game plays down violence, leading to the danger that people have fewer inhibitions about shooting each other,\" said Dieter Wiefelsputz, of the Social Democrats.Owners of paintball arenas, which are already out of bounds for under-18s, said they felt they were easy targets in what opposition politicians have referred to as \"populistic placebo politics\".Arne Petry, spokesman for the German Paintball League, said: \"Paintball is not about simulating bloodbaths \u2013 the most you're going to end up with is a bruise or two.\"The owner of one of Germany's largest paintball halls, north-west of Berlin, said he thought the ban ironic, not least because \"many of my customers are government workers\". He said he counted bank managers, firefighters, police and even security guards from Merkel's chancellery among his regular customers.\"They come here after their shifts to let off steam and stay for several hours at a time,\" he said, requesting anonymity.The new law is also expected to forbid under-18s access to high-calibre guns and to make it easier for police to carry out random controls at the homes of registered gun owners.Claudia Roth, head of the Green party, said that while she was no fan of paintball, the government's plan to ban it was hypocritical and amounted to a \"cowardly concession to the gun lobby\".\"They should instead be banning high-calibre weapons,\" she said.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany to ban paintball after massacre"},{"date": "2009-06-06T10:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "No, we are not lazy, screamed the headline of Germany's best-selling tabloid, Bild, on Thursday. Three politicians from competing parties, from the conservative CDU to the liberal FDP, took an unusual step: please go to vote on Sunday, they begged together. They fear a record low turnout.The desperation is not completely unfounded. Germans seem to be interested in anything else, like the rescue package for carmaker Opel or rising rents in Berlin or what to do with a 100 people-strong family of Roma people, but not in the European elections. Last time, the turnout in Germany was about 42%, in Berlin it was even lower, 38.6%. This time the polls forecast worse. \"What does it have to do with me?\" most voters ask. Not many people actually know what the Strasbourg parliament is good at.Europe has also become a byword in Germany for bureaucracy and silly rules, such as the infamous rule on the curviness of cucumbers. It has been abolished, the three politicians cry in their advert. They add that the administration of Europe only cost \u20ac3 per citizen. \"Not more than a glass of beer,\" they say. Europe \u2013 just another glass of beer? Is that the only thing they could come up with?This is one of the rare moments when one wishes for a politician like Helmut Kohl, the former chancellor, who really was a passionate and devoted European, who used his post-war experience to prevent another horrible division of the continent. They younger generation seems more superficial, just keen on keeping their posts.It also seems wrong that the politicians are suddenly so desperate to raise our interest in Europe, which they largely ignore outside election time. Suddenly they seem to be very keen to get their message across. Even the Chancellor, Angela Merkel, held a rally in Berlin on Thursday to support the CDU candidates. But, one wonders, where have they been for the last five years, and why do we hear so little about the work of MEPs during their tenure?There is a lack of understanding of what MEPs actually do and how effective they are. This is not only the politicians' fault \u2013 outside election times, there is little media reporting to make processes in Brussels more transparent. The main problem, though, is the national government. It has nurtured a hypocritical attitude: the national parties are quick to blame the \"bureaucrats in Brussels\", if it suits them. If there is something voter-friendly coming out of the EU, they claim the success for themselves. When the interior minister recently pretended to have increased refunds for delayed train travel, she was only passing on EU legislation.\u00a0", "tags": ["European elections", "Germany", "European Union", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Europe votes: Is Germany too lazy for Europe? | Sabine Rennefanz"},{"date": "2009-05-08T16:06:26Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government is planning to ban paintball and laser shooting games in reaction to the recent school massacre in which 15 people died.Under legislation agreed by the ruling coalition of the chancellor, Angela \u00adMerkel, using air rifles to shoot paint-filled pellets at opponents is likely to be made illegal, and would be punishable with fines of up to \u20ac5,000 (\u00a34,480).The decision, which is expected to be fast-tracked through the Bundestag before the summer recess, comes two months after 17-year-old Tim Kretschmar shot dead 15 people at his former school in Winnenden, south-west Germany, with a weapon he had taken from his father's bedroom. Kretschmar's love of paintball as well as violent video and computer games was widely publicised.The government has found itself under pressure to tighten gun laws in Germany in what has become one of the main issues before a general election in September.\"This so-called game plays down violence, leading to the danger that people have fewer inhibitions about shooting each other,\" said Dieter Wiefelsputz, of the Social Democrats.Owners of paintball arenas, which are already out of bounds for under-18s, said they felt they were easy targets in what opposition politicians have referred to as \"populistic placebo politics\".Arne Petry, spokesman for the German Paintball League, said: \"Paintball is not about simulating bloodbaths \u2013 the most you're going to end up with is a bruise or two.\"The owner of one of Germany's largest paintball halls, north-west of Berlin, said he thought the ban ironic, not least because \"many of my customers are government workers\". He said he counted bank managers, firefighters, police and even security guards from Merkel's chancellery among his regular customers.\"They come here after their shifts to let off steam and stay for several hours at a time,\" he said, requesting anonymity.The new law is also expected to forbid under-18s access to high-calibre guns and to make it easier for police to carry out random controls at the homes of registered gun owners.Claudia Roth, head of the Green party, said that while she was no fan of paintball, the government's plan to ban it was hypocritical and amounted to a \"cowardly concession to the gun lobby\".\"They should instead be banning high-calibre weapons,\" she said.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany to ban paintball after massacre"},{"date": "2009-04-14T16:19:39Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has thrown its weight behind a growing European mutiny over genetically modified crops by banning the planting of a widely grown pest-resistant corn variety.Agriculture minister Ilse Aigner said there was enough evidence to support arguments that MON 810, which is the only GM crop widely grown in Europe, posed a danger.\"I have come to the conclusion that genetically-modified corn from the MON 810 strain constitutes a danger to the environment,\" Aigner told reporters in Berlin.Germany's move, which has immediate effect, goes against the European Commission's decision to support the lifting of bans on planting MON 810 which have been imposed by governments in France, Austria, Hungary, Greece and Luxembourg.In the UK, the Welsh Assembly has declared the country GM-free. Supported by Britain, Finland, the Netherlands and Sweden, the Commission argued last month that moves to outlaw the corn on the grounds that it is dangerous were unjust because it has been deemed safe by scientists at the European Food Safety Authority.MON 810 was first approved for commercial use in the EU in 1998 and has been permitted as a commercial crop in Germany since 2005. More than 70 per cent of German consumers support a ban on GM crops for food.The US biotechnology firm Monsanto which markets the maize did not return calls but industry observers said the ban by Europe's largest country with a strong agricultural lobby, was a blow to the company.MON 810 was developed to resist a moth larva which bores into the stem of the corn and against which there is only one approved insecticide.Monsanto has repeatedly argued that MON 810 crops are safe and has tried to encourage their use as a cheap and plentiful food. They are widely grown in the US, Latin America and China.But opponents insist that too little is known about GM crops and their long-term genetic impact on wildlife and the food-chain.The German ban will now be analysed by the Commission, amid fears it could trigger trade tensions with the US. Under World Trade Organisation rules, the US administration has the right to retaliate.Nathalie Charbonneau a spokeswoman for the Commission said it would scrutinise the German decision and \"decide on the most appropriate follow-up\".Lobbyists for the biotechnology industry in Germany described the decision as a setback for science and for the economy. They warned that it would prompt biotechnology companies to relocate to other parts of the world.", "tags": ["GM", "Agriculture", "Science", "Germany", "World news", "Environment", "Food", "Europe"], "title": "Germany deals blow to GM crops"},{"date": "2009-06-06T10:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "No, we are not lazy, screamed the headline of Germany's best-selling tabloid, Bild, on Thursday. Three politicians from competing parties, from the conservative CDU to the liberal FDP, took an unusual step: please go to vote on Sunday, they begged together. They fear a record low turnout.The desperation is not completely unfounded. Germans seem to be interested in anything else, like the rescue package for carmaker Opel or rising rents in Berlin or what to do with a 100 people-strong family of Roma people, but not in the European elections. Last time, the turnout in Germany was about 42%, in Berlin it was even lower, 38.6%. This time the polls forecast worse. \"What does it have to do with me?\" most voters ask. Not many people actually know what the Strasbourg parliament is good at.Europe has also become a byword in Germany for bureaucracy and silly rules, such as the infamous rule on the curviness of cucumbers. It has been abolished, the three politicians cry in their advert. They add that the administration of Europe only cost \u20ac3 per citizen. \"Not more than a glass of beer,\" they say. Europe \u2013 just another glass of beer? Is that the only thing they could come up with?This is one of the rare moments when one wishes for a politician like Helmut Kohl, the former chancellor, who really was a passionate and devoted European, who used his post-war experience to prevent another horrible division of the continent. They younger generation seems more superficial, just keen on keeping their posts.It also seems wrong that the politicians are suddenly so desperate to raise our interest in Europe, which they largely ignore outside election time. Suddenly they seem to be very keen to get their message across. Even the Chancellor, Angela Merkel, held a rally in Berlin on Thursday to support the CDU candidates. But, one wonders, where have they been for the last five years, and why do we hear so little about the work of MEPs during their tenure?There is a lack of understanding of what MEPs actually do and how effective they are. This is not only the politicians' fault \u2013 outside election times, there is little media reporting to make processes in Brussels more transparent. The main problem, though, is the national government. It has nurtured a hypocritical attitude: the national parties are quick to blame the \"bureaucrats in Brussels\", if it suits them. If there is something voter-friendly coming out of the EU, they claim the success for themselves. When the interior minister recently pretended to have increased refunds for delayed train travel, she was only passing on EU legislation.\u00a0", "tags": ["European elections", "Germany", "European Union", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Europe votes: Is Germany too lazy for Europe? | Sabine Rennefanz"},{"date": "2009-05-08T16:06:26Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government is planning to ban paintball and laser shooting games in reaction to the recent school massacre in which 15 people died.Under legislation agreed by the ruling coalition of the chancellor, Angela \u00adMerkel, using air rifles to shoot paint-filled pellets at opponents is likely to be made illegal, and would be punishable with fines of up to \u20ac5,000 (\u00a34,480).The decision, which is expected to be fast-tracked through the Bundestag before the summer recess, comes two months after 17-year-old Tim Kretschmar shot dead 15 people at his former school in Winnenden, south-west Germany, with a weapon he had taken from his father's bedroom. Kretschmar's love of paintball as well as violent video and computer games was widely publicised.The government has found itself under pressure to tighten gun laws in Germany in what has become one of the main issues before a general election in September.\"This so-called game plays down violence, leading to the danger that people have fewer inhibitions about shooting each other,\" said Dieter Wiefelsputz, of the Social Democrats.Owners of paintball arenas, which are already out of bounds for under-18s, said they felt they were easy targets in what opposition politicians have referred to as \"populistic placebo politics\".Arne Petry, spokesman for the German Paintball League, said: \"Paintball is not about simulating bloodbaths \u2013 the most you're going to end up with is a bruise or two.\"The owner of one of Germany's largest paintball halls, north-west of Berlin, said he thought the ban ironic, not least because \"many of my customers are government workers\". He said he counted bank managers, firefighters, police and even security guards from Merkel's chancellery among his regular customers.\"They come here after their shifts to let off steam and stay for several hours at a time,\" he said, requesting anonymity.The new law is also expected to forbid under-18s access to high-calibre guns and to make it easier for police to carry out random controls at the homes of registered gun owners.Claudia Roth, head of the Green party, said that while she was no fan of paintball, the government's plan to ban it was hypocritical and amounted to a \"cowardly concession to the gun lobby\".\"They should instead be banning high-calibre weapons,\" she said.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany to ban paintball after massacre"},{"date": "2009-04-14T16:19:39Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has thrown its weight behind a growing European mutiny over genetically modified crops by banning the planting of a widely grown pest-resistant corn variety.Agriculture minister Ilse Aigner said there was enough evidence to support arguments that MON 810, which is the only GM crop widely grown in Europe, posed a danger.\"I have come to the conclusion that genetically-modified corn from the MON 810 strain constitutes a danger to the environment,\" Aigner told reporters in Berlin.Germany's move, which has immediate effect, goes against the European Commission's decision to support the lifting of bans on planting MON 810 which have been imposed by governments in France, Austria, Hungary, Greece and Luxembourg.In the UK, the Welsh Assembly has declared the country GM-free. Supported by Britain, Finland, the Netherlands and Sweden, the Commission argued last month that moves to outlaw the corn on the grounds that it is dangerous were unjust because it has been deemed safe by scientists at the European Food Safety Authority.MON 810 was first approved for commercial use in the EU in 1998 and has been permitted as a commercial crop in Germany since 2005. More than 70 per cent of German consumers support a ban on GM crops for food.The US biotechnology firm Monsanto which markets the maize did not return calls but industry observers said the ban by Europe's largest country with a strong agricultural lobby, was a blow to the company.MON 810 was developed to resist a moth larva which bores into the stem of the corn and against which there is only one approved insecticide.Monsanto has repeatedly argued that MON 810 crops are safe and has tried to encourage their use as a cheap and plentiful food. They are widely grown in the US, Latin America and China.But opponents insist that too little is known about GM crops and their long-term genetic impact on wildlife and the food-chain.The German ban will now be analysed by the Commission, amid fears it could trigger trade tensions with the US. Under World Trade Organisation rules, the US administration has the right to retaliate.Nathalie Charbonneau a spokeswoman for the Commission said it would scrutinise the German decision and \"decide on the most appropriate follow-up\".Lobbyists for the biotechnology industry in Germany described the decision as a setback for science and for the economy. They warned that it would prompt biotechnology companies to relocate to other parts of the world.", "tags": ["GM", "Agriculture", "Science", "Germany", "World news", "Environment", "Food", "Europe"], "title": "Germany deals blow to GM crops"},{"date": "2009-04-04T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Claims by Germany and France in the run-up to last week's G20 meeting that big fiscal boosts were inflationary and unnecessary belied the fact that the big eurozone economies are stuck in a deflationary spiral.Growth in the German economy was worse than either Britain or the United States in the fourth quarter of last year, and last week its unemployment rate rose to 8.1%, well above Britain's 6.6% rate, although still below the US's 8.5%. Unemployment has reached 3.4 million; retail sales are falling; consumer confidence remains weak; and business confidence hit a record low last month. Meanwhile, inflation in the eurozone as a whole has fallen to its lowest level to date on the consumer price index (CPI) measure at just 0.6%, and the euro remains relatively strong against the pound and dollar.That did not stop German Chancellor Angela Merkel arguing against further fiscal stimulus on the grounds that it could prove inflationary and therefore unsustainable. France's President, Nicolas Sarkozy, made similar noises, and so renewed fiscal stimulus disappeared from the G20 agenda.However, the Japanese prime minister, Taro Aso, said fiscal stimulus was urgently needed. \"Because of the experience of the past 15 years, we know what is necessary, while countries like the US and European countries may be facing this sort of situation for the first time,\" he said.Germany had felt relatively immune from the credit crisis, as it had not had an unsustainable boom in consumption and house prices. It was, however, far too dependent on exports, and now that world trade has collapsed, its lack of domestic demand has left it painfully exposed. Analysts think the first quarter of this year could see its worst economic performance since the second world war. France, too, is looking very sickly. Its unemployment level jumped 80,000 in February to nearly 2.4 million - well above Britain's, even though the populations are broadly similar. And its statistics office expects joblessness to rise to almost 9% in the current quarter. Rising unemployment is a big worry in France, where consumer spending is a mainstay of the economy. Consumer confidence has plunged, and spending in February fell at its fastest pace in more than a year. As in Germany, business confidence is at a record low.The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development last week forecast that the German economy would shrink by even more than the UK's and the US's this year, with France not far behind. Many economists in France and Germany are even gloomier.The European Central Bank has come to the rescue to some extent, but last week surprised analysts by cutting interest rates by only a quarter of a point, to 1.25%. In Britain rates are at 0.5% and in the US at 0.25%. Many analysts have criticised the ECB for being too slow to react to the downturn.Japan and China - the world's other big surplus, exporting countries - have grasped the importance of reflating their economies quickly. Germany, though, is in trouble, but refuses to take the necessary action, such as slashing taxes. And if it goes into an even deeper slump, as seems likely, the whole continent will suffer.", "tags": ["Global economy", "Business", "Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany has more to fear than inflation"},{"date": "2009-06-06T10:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "No, we are not lazy, screamed the headline of Germany's best-selling tabloid, Bild, on Thursday. Three politicians from competing parties, from the conservative CDU to the liberal FDP, took an unusual step: please go to vote on Sunday, they begged together. They fear a record low turnout.The desperation is not completely unfounded. Germans seem to be interested in anything else, like the rescue package for carmaker Opel or rising rents in Berlin or what to do with a 100 people-strong family of Roma people, but not in the European elections. Last time, the turnout in Germany was about 42%, in Berlin it was even lower, 38.6%. This time the polls forecast worse. \"What does it have to do with me?\" most voters ask. Not many people actually know what the Strasbourg parliament is good at.Europe has also become a byword in Germany for bureaucracy and silly rules, such as the infamous rule on the curviness of cucumbers. It has been abolished, the three politicians cry in their advert. They add that the administration of Europe only cost \u20ac3 per citizen. \"Not more than a glass of beer,\" they say. Europe \u2013 just another glass of beer? Is that the only thing they could come up with?This is one of the rare moments when one wishes for a politician like Helmut Kohl, the former chancellor, who really was a passionate and devoted European, who used his post-war experience to prevent another horrible division of the continent. They younger generation seems more superficial, just keen on keeping their posts.It also seems wrong that the politicians are suddenly so desperate to raise our interest in Europe, which they largely ignore outside election time. Suddenly they seem to be very keen to get their message across. Even the Chancellor, Angela Merkel, held a rally in Berlin on Thursday to support the CDU candidates. But, one wonders, where have they been for the last five years, and why do we hear so little about the work of MEPs during their tenure?There is a lack of understanding of what MEPs actually do and how effective they are. This is not only the politicians' fault \u2013 outside election times, there is little media reporting to make processes in Brussels more transparent. The main problem, though, is the national government. It has nurtured a hypocritical attitude: the national parties are quick to blame the \"bureaucrats in Brussels\", if it suits them. If there is something voter-friendly coming out of the EU, they claim the success for themselves. When the interior minister recently pretended to have increased refunds for delayed train travel, she was only passing on EU legislation.\u00a0", "tags": ["European elections", "Germany", "European Union", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Europe votes: Is Germany too lazy for Europe? | Sabine Rennefanz"},{"date": "2009-05-08T16:06:26Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government is planning to ban paintball and laser shooting games in reaction to the recent school massacre in which 15 people died.Under legislation agreed by the ruling coalition of the chancellor, Angela \u00adMerkel, using air rifles to shoot paint-filled pellets at opponents is likely to be made illegal, and would be punishable with fines of up to \u20ac5,000 (\u00a34,480).The decision, which is expected to be fast-tracked through the Bundestag before the summer recess, comes two months after 17-year-old Tim Kretschmar shot dead 15 people at his former school in Winnenden, south-west Germany, with a weapon he had taken from his father's bedroom. Kretschmar's love of paintball as well as violent video and computer games was widely publicised.The government has found itself under pressure to tighten gun laws in Germany in what has become one of the main issues before a general election in September.\"This so-called game plays down violence, leading to the danger that people have fewer inhibitions about shooting each other,\" said Dieter Wiefelsputz, of the Social Democrats.Owners of paintball arenas, which are already out of bounds for under-18s, said they felt they were easy targets in what opposition politicians have referred to as \"populistic placebo politics\".Arne Petry, spokesman for the German Paintball League, said: \"Paintball is not about simulating bloodbaths \u2013 the most you're going to end up with is a bruise or two.\"The owner of one of Germany's largest paintball halls, north-west of Berlin, said he thought the ban ironic, not least because \"many of my customers are government workers\". He said he counted bank managers, firefighters, police and even security guards from Merkel's chancellery among his regular customers.\"They come here after their shifts to let off steam and stay for several hours at a time,\" he said, requesting anonymity.The new law is also expected to forbid under-18s access to high-calibre guns and to make it easier for police to carry out random controls at the homes of registered gun owners.Claudia Roth, head of the Green party, said that while she was no fan of paintball, the government's plan to ban it was hypocritical and amounted to a \"cowardly concession to the gun lobby\".\"They should instead be banning high-calibre weapons,\" she said.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany to ban paintball after massacre"},{"date": "2009-04-14T16:19:39Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has thrown its weight behind a growing European mutiny over genetically modified crops by banning the planting of a widely grown pest-resistant corn variety.Agriculture minister Ilse Aigner said there was enough evidence to support arguments that MON 810, which is the only GM crop widely grown in Europe, posed a danger.\"I have come to the conclusion that genetically-modified corn from the MON 810 strain constitutes a danger to the environment,\" Aigner told reporters in Berlin.Germany's move, which has immediate effect, goes against the European Commission's decision to support the lifting of bans on planting MON 810 which have been imposed by governments in France, Austria, Hungary, Greece and Luxembourg.In the UK, the Welsh Assembly has declared the country GM-free. Supported by Britain, Finland, the Netherlands and Sweden, the Commission argued last month that moves to outlaw the corn on the grounds that it is dangerous were unjust because it has been deemed safe by scientists at the European Food Safety Authority.MON 810 was first approved for commercial use in the EU in 1998 and has been permitted as a commercial crop in Germany since 2005. More than 70 per cent of German consumers support a ban on GM crops for food.The US biotechnology firm Monsanto which markets the maize did not return calls but industry observers said the ban by Europe's largest country with a strong agricultural lobby, was a blow to the company.MON 810 was developed to resist a moth larva which bores into the stem of the corn and against which there is only one approved insecticide.Monsanto has repeatedly argued that MON 810 crops are safe and has tried to encourage their use as a cheap and plentiful food. They are widely grown in the US, Latin America and China.But opponents insist that too little is known about GM crops and their long-term genetic impact on wildlife and the food-chain.The German ban will now be analysed by the Commission, amid fears it could trigger trade tensions with the US. Under World Trade Organisation rules, the US administration has the right to retaliate.Nathalie Charbonneau a spokeswoman for the Commission said it would scrutinise the German decision and \"decide on the most appropriate follow-up\".Lobbyists for the biotechnology industry in Germany described the decision as a setback for science and for the economy. They warned that it would prompt biotechnology companies to relocate to other parts of the world.", "tags": ["GM", "Agriculture", "Science", "Germany", "World news", "Environment", "Food", "Europe"], "title": "Germany deals blow to GM crops"},{"date": "2009-04-04T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Claims by Germany and France in the run-up to last week's G20 meeting that big fiscal boosts were inflationary and unnecessary belied the fact that the big eurozone economies are stuck in a deflationary spiral.Growth in the German economy was worse than either Britain or the United States in the fourth quarter of last year, and last week its unemployment rate rose to 8.1%, well above Britain's 6.6% rate, although still below the US's 8.5%. Unemployment has reached 3.4 million; retail sales are falling; consumer confidence remains weak; and business confidence hit a record low last month. Meanwhile, inflation in the eurozone as a whole has fallen to its lowest level to date on the consumer price index (CPI) measure at just 0.6%, and the euro remains relatively strong against the pound and dollar.That did not stop German Chancellor Angela Merkel arguing against further fiscal stimulus on the grounds that it could prove inflationary and therefore unsustainable. France's President, Nicolas Sarkozy, made similar noises, and so renewed fiscal stimulus disappeared from the G20 agenda.However, the Japanese prime minister, Taro Aso, said fiscal stimulus was urgently needed. \"Because of the experience of the past 15 years, we know what is necessary, while countries like the US and European countries may be facing this sort of situation for the first time,\" he said.Germany had felt relatively immune from the credit crisis, as it had not had an unsustainable boom in consumption and house prices. It was, however, far too dependent on exports, and now that world trade has collapsed, its lack of domestic demand has left it painfully exposed. Analysts think the first quarter of this year could see its worst economic performance since the second world war. France, too, is looking very sickly. Its unemployment level jumped 80,000 in February to nearly 2.4 million - well above Britain's, even though the populations are broadly similar. And its statistics office expects joblessness to rise to almost 9% in the current quarter. Rising unemployment is a big worry in France, where consumer spending is a mainstay of the economy. Consumer confidence has plunged, and spending in February fell at its fastest pace in more than a year. As in Germany, business confidence is at a record low.The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development last week forecast that the German economy would shrink by even more than the UK's and the US's this year, with France not far behind. Many economists in France and Germany are even gloomier.The European Central Bank has come to the rescue to some extent, but last week surprised analysts by cutting interest rates by only a quarter of a point, to 1.25%. In Britain rates are at 0.5% and in the US at 0.25%. Many analysts have criticised the ECB for being too slow to react to the downturn.Japan and China - the world's other big surplus, exporting countries - have grasped the importance of reflating their economies quickly. Germany, though, is in trouble, but refuses to take the necessary action, such as slashing taxes. And if it goes into an even deeper slump, as seems likely, the whole continent will suffer.", "tags": ["Global economy", "Business", "Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany has more to fear than inflation"},{"date": "2009-04-03T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "\"Thousands of Americans in Paris during the Nazi era? Can that be true?\" wondered William Boyd in the Sunday Times, reviewing Americans in Paris: Life and Death Under Nazi Occupation 1940-44. \"It is the freshness and unfamiliarity of these narratives that make this book so intriguing ... Among the small lexicon of technical phrases that a screenwriter requires, one of the most useful is 'another angle'. This is used when you want a scene to be reshot, obliquely, from a second point of view. Charles Glass provides 'another angle' on the familiar and often-told story of Paris under the Nazi occupation that makes it new again.\" \"If Germany had conquered this country in 1940, what - as an adult at the time - would you have done?\" asked Noel Malcolm in the Sunday Telegraph. \"I expect everyone has fantasised, one way or another, about this. And I also expect that, in our fantasies, we are all rather heroic ... Most of us, I think, will close this book knowing that we would have fallen far below our own ideals. Charles Glass describes the various realities with just the right combination of objectivity and compassion; this is a moving and deeply thought-provoking book.\"\"Smart, provocative, often very funny, but ultimately deeply sobering, Jeff in Venice, Death in Varanasi is an early contender for the most original, and the cleverest, novel of the year,\" declared Mick Brown in the Daily Telegraph. \"What Geoff Dyer puts his protagonist through, first in Venice, and then in Varanasi, is the test all of his alter egos invariably face: how to achieve, as he defines it, 'existential contentment,'\" wrote Matt Thorne in the Sunday Telegraph. \"This is Dyer's great theme, and this novel his finest exploration of it: a career-best performance from one of England's greatest (if most reluctant) novelists.\" \"All the way through there is a sense of being kept at arm's length, not quite being let in on the deeper meaning or the cosmic joke (if there is one),\" said Tim Teeman in the Times. \"But Dyer's eccentric charm and barbed perceptiveness will hook you to the end.\"\"The material Claire Harman has deftly put together makes two things strikingly apparent: no reading of Jane, however seemingly wayward, is a misreading; and Austen's major effect is to inspire good writing,\" wrote Frances Wilson in the Daily Telegraph, reviewing Jane's Fame: How Jane Austen Conquered the World. \"Harman presents a writer who was deadly serious about her work, her reputation and her independence, who took control of her own career and negotiated hard with her publishers,\" said Paula Byrne in the Sunday Telegraph. \"Is there anything new here? Well, not really ... but no matter - it's the quality of the insights and the interpretations that make this book such a good read.\" \"Harman locates two moments when Austen's reputation took off,\" observed John Sutherland in the Times. \"The first was in the 1890s, when, among many other cults and secret societies, 'Austenolatry' became fashionable among the cognoscenti. These cultists lit the 'Janeite' fuse. The second is the chick-lit boom of the 1990s. Austen was Mills & Boon repackaged for the new, savvy, female youth market who, unlike their predecessors, had higher education. Jane went nova alongside Sex and the City, the movie Clueless and Bridget Jones's Diary. The chicks did it.\"", "tags": ["Books", "Culture"], "title": "Critical eye: If Germany had won the war ..."},{"date": "2009-06-06T10:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "No, we are not lazy, screamed the headline of Germany's best-selling tabloid, Bild, on Thursday. Three politicians from competing parties, from the conservative CDU to the liberal FDP, took an unusual step: please go to vote on Sunday, they begged together. They fear a record low turnout.The desperation is not completely unfounded. Germans seem to be interested in anything else, like the rescue package for carmaker Opel or rising rents in Berlin or what to do with a 100 people-strong family of Roma people, but not in the European elections. Last time, the turnout in Germany was about 42%, in Berlin it was even lower, 38.6%. This time the polls forecast worse. \"What does it have to do with me?\" most voters ask. Not many people actually know what the Strasbourg parliament is good at.Europe has also become a byword in Germany for bureaucracy and silly rules, such as the infamous rule on the curviness of cucumbers. It has been abolished, the three politicians cry in their advert. They add that the administration of Europe only cost \u20ac3 per citizen. \"Not more than a glass of beer,\" they say. Europe \u2013 just another glass of beer? Is that the only thing they could come up with?This is one of the rare moments when one wishes for a politician like Helmut Kohl, the former chancellor, who really was a passionate and devoted European, who used his post-war experience to prevent another horrible division of the continent. They younger generation seems more superficial, just keen on keeping their posts.It also seems wrong that the politicians are suddenly so desperate to raise our interest in Europe, which they largely ignore outside election time. Suddenly they seem to be very keen to get their message across. Even the Chancellor, Angela Merkel, held a rally in Berlin on Thursday to support the CDU candidates. But, one wonders, where have they been for the last five years, and why do we hear so little about the work of MEPs during their tenure?There is a lack of understanding of what MEPs actually do and how effective they are. This is not only the politicians' fault \u2013 outside election times, there is little media reporting to make processes in Brussels more transparent. The main problem, though, is the national government. It has nurtured a hypocritical attitude: the national parties are quick to blame the \"bureaucrats in Brussels\", if it suits them. If there is something voter-friendly coming out of the EU, they claim the success for themselves. When the interior minister recently pretended to have increased refunds for delayed train travel, she was only passing on EU legislation.\u00a0", "tags": ["European elections", "Germany", "European Union", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Europe votes: Is Germany too lazy for Europe? | Sabine Rennefanz"},{"date": "2009-05-08T16:06:26Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government is planning to ban paintball and laser shooting games in reaction to the recent school massacre in which 15 people died.Under legislation agreed by the ruling coalition of the chancellor, Angela \u00adMerkel, using air rifles to shoot paint-filled pellets at opponents is likely to be made illegal, and would be punishable with fines of up to \u20ac5,000 (\u00a34,480).The decision, which is expected to be fast-tracked through the Bundestag before the summer recess, comes two months after 17-year-old Tim Kretschmar shot dead 15 people at his former school in Winnenden, south-west Germany, with a weapon he had taken from his father's bedroom. Kretschmar's love of paintball as well as violent video and computer games was widely publicised.The government has found itself under pressure to tighten gun laws in Germany in what has become one of the main issues before a general election in September.\"This so-called game plays down violence, leading to the danger that people have fewer inhibitions about shooting each other,\" said Dieter Wiefelsputz, of the Social Democrats.Owners of paintball arenas, which are already out of bounds for under-18s, said they felt they were easy targets in what opposition politicians have referred to as \"populistic placebo politics\".Arne Petry, spokesman for the German Paintball League, said: \"Paintball is not about simulating bloodbaths \u2013 the most you're going to end up with is a bruise or two.\"The owner of one of Germany's largest paintball halls, north-west of Berlin, said he thought the ban ironic, not least because \"many of my customers are government workers\". He said he counted bank managers, firefighters, police and even security guards from Merkel's chancellery among his regular customers.\"They come here after their shifts to let off steam and stay for several hours at a time,\" he said, requesting anonymity.The new law is also expected to forbid under-18s access to high-calibre guns and to make it easier for police to carry out random controls at the homes of registered gun owners.Claudia Roth, head of the Green party, said that while she was no fan of paintball, the government's plan to ban it was hypocritical and amounted to a \"cowardly concession to the gun lobby\".\"They should instead be banning high-calibre weapons,\" she said.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany to ban paintball after massacre"},{"date": "2009-04-14T16:19:39Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has thrown its weight behind a growing European mutiny over genetically modified crops by banning the planting of a widely grown pest-resistant corn variety.Agriculture minister Ilse Aigner said there was enough evidence to support arguments that MON 810, which is the only GM crop widely grown in Europe, posed a danger.\"I have come to the conclusion that genetically-modified corn from the MON 810 strain constitutes a danger to the environment,\" Aigner told reporters in Berlin.Germany's move, which has immediate effect, goes against the European Commission's decision to support the lifting of bans on planting MON 810 which have been imposed by governments in France, Austria, Hungary, Greece and Luxembourg.In the UK, the Welsh Assembly has declared the country GM-free. Supported by Britain, Finland, the Netherlands and Sweden, the Commission argued last month that moves to outlaw the corn on the grounds that it is dangerous were unjust because it has been deemed safe by scientists at the European Food Safety Authority.MON 810 was first approved for commercial use in the EU in 1998 and has been permitted as a commercial crop in Germany since 2005. More than 70 per cent of German consumers support a ban on GM crops for food.The US biotechnology firm Monsanto which markets the maize did not return calls but industry observers said the ban by Europe's largest country with a strong agricultural lobby, was a blow to the company.MON 810 was developed to resist a moth larva which bores into the stem of the corn and against which there is only one approved insecticide.Monsanto has repeatedly argued that MON 810 crops are safe and has tried to encourage their use as a cheap and plentiful food. They are widely grown in the US, Latin America and China.But opponents insist that too little is known about GM crops and their long-term genetic impact on wildlife and the food-chain.The German ban will now be analysed by the Commission, amid fears it could trigger trade tensions with the US. Under World Trade Organisation rules, the US administration has the right to retaliate.Nathalie Charbonneau a spokeswoman for the Commission said it would scrutinise the German decision and \"decide on the most appropriate follow-up\".Lobbyists for the biotechnology industry in Germany described the decision as a setback for science and for the economy. They warned that it would prompt biotechnology companies to relocate to other parts of the world.", "tags": ["GM", "Agriculture", "Science", "Germany", "World news", "Environment", "Food", "Europe"], "title": "Germany deals blow to GM crops"},{"date": "2009-04-04T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Claims by Germany and France in the run-up to last week's G20 meeting that big fiscal boosts were inflationary and unnecessary belied the fact that the big eurozone economies are stuck in a deflationary spiral.Growth in the German economy was worse than either Britain or the United States in the fourth quarter of last year, and last week its unemployment rate rose to 8.1%, well above Britain's 6.6% rate, although still below the US's 8.5%. Unemployment has reached 3.4 million; retail sales are falling; consumer confidence remains weak; and business confidence hit a record low last month. Meanwhile, inflation in the eurozone as a whole has fallen to its lowest level to date on the consumer price index (CPI) measure at just 0.6%, and the euro remains relatively strong against the pound and dollar.That did not stop German Chancellor Angela Merkel arguing against further fiscal stimulus on the grounds that it could prove inflationary and therefore unsustainable. France's President, Nicolas Sarkozy, made similar noises, and so renewed fiscal stimulus disappeared from the G20 agenda.However, the Japanese prime minister, Taro Aso, said fiscal stimulus was urgently needed. \"Because of the experience of the past 15 years, we know what is necessary, while countries like the US and European countries may be facing this sort of situation for the first time,\" he said.Germany had felt relatively immune from the credit crisis, as it had not had an unsustainable boom in consumption and house prices. It was, however, far too dependent on exports, and now that world trade has collapsed, its lack of domestic demand has left it painfully exposed. Analysts think the first quarter of this year could see its worst economic performance since the second world war. France, too, is looking very sickly. Its unemployment level jumped 80,000 in February to nearly 2.4 million - well above Britain's, even though the populations are broadly similar. And its statistics office expects joblessness to rise to almost 9% in the current quarter. Rising unemployment is a big worry in France, where consumer spending is a mainstay of the economy. Consumer confidence has plunged, and spending in February fell at its fastest pace in more than a year. As in Germany, business confidence is at a record low.The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development last week forecast that the German economy would shrink by even more than the UK's and the US's this year, with France not far behind. Many economists in France and Germany are even gloomier.The European Central Bank has come to the rescue to some extent, but last week surprised analysts by cutting interest rates by only a quarter of a point, to 1.25%. In Britain rates are at 0.5% and in the US at 0.25%. Many analysts have criticised the ECB for being too slow to react to the downturn.Japan and China - the world's other big surplus, exporting countries - have grasped the importance of reflating their economies quickly. Germany, though, is in trouble, but refuses to take the necessary action, such as slashing taxes. And if it goes into an even deeper slump, as seems likely, the whole continent will suffer.", "tags": ["Global economy", "Business", "Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany has more to fear than inflation"},{"date": "2009-04-03T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "\"Thousands of Americans in Paris during the Nazi era? Can that be true?\" wondered William Boyd in the Sunday Times, reviewing Americans in Paris: Life and Death Under Nazi Occupation 1940-44. \"It is the freshness and unfamiliarity of these narratives that make this book so intriguing ... Among the small lexicon of technical phrases that a screenwriter requires, one of the most useful is 'another angle'. This is used when you want a scene to be reshot, obliquely, from a second point of view. Charles Glass provides 'another angle' on the familiar and often-told story of Paris under the Nazi occupation that makes it new again.\" \"If Germany had conquered this country in 1940, what - as an adult at the time - would you have done?\" asked Noel Malcolm in the Sunday Telegraph. \"I expect everyone has fantasised, one way or another, about this. And I also expect that, in our fantasies, we are all rather heroic ... Most of us, I think, will close this book knowing that we would have fallen far below our own ideals. Charles Glass describes the various realities with just the right combination of objectivity and compassion; this is a moving and deeply thought-provoking book.\"\"Smart, provocative, often very funny, but ultimately deeply sobering, Jeff in Venice, Death in Varanasi is an early contender for the most original, and the cleverest, novel of the year,\" declared Mick Brown in the Daily Telegraph. \"What Geoff Dyer puts his protagonist through, first in Venice, and then in Varanasi, is the test all of his alter egos invariably face: how to achieve, as he defines it, 'existential contentment,'\" wrote Matt Thorne in the Sunday Telegraph. \"This is Dyer's great theme, and this novel his finest exploration of it: a career-best performance from one of England's greatest (if most reluctant) novelists.\" \"All the way through there is a sense of being kept at arm's length, not quite being let in on the deeper meaning or the cosmic joke (if there is one),\" said Tim Teeman in the Times. \"But Dyer's eccentric charm and barbed perceptiveness will hook you to the end.\"\"The material Claire Harman has deftly put together makes two things strikingly apparent: no reading of Jane, however seemingly wayward, is a misreading; and Austen's major effect is to inspire good writing,\" wrote Frances Wilson in the Daily Telegraph, reviewing Jane's Fame: How Jane Austen Conquered the World. \"Harman presents a writer who was deadly serious about her work, her reputation and her independence, who took control of her own career and negotiated hard with her publishers,\" said Paula Byrne in the Sunday Telegraph. \"Is there anything new here? Well, not really ... but no matter - it's the quality of the insights and the interpretations that make this book such a good read.\" \"Harman locates two moments when Austen's reputation took off,\" observed John Sutherland in the Times. \"The first was in the 1890s, when, among many other cults and secret societies, 'Austenolatry' became fashionable among the cognoscenti. These cultists lit the 'Janeite' fuse. The second is the chick-lit boom of the 1990s. Austen was Mills & Boon repackaged for the new, savvy, female youth market who, unlike their predecessors, had higher education. Jane went nova alongside Sex and the City, the movie Clueless and Bridget Jones's Diary. The chicks did it.\"", "tags": ["Books", "Culture"], "title": "Critical eye: If Germany had won the war ..."},{"date": "2009-04-01T10:52:41Z", "country": "germany", "content": "At this rate, YouTube will have precious little music left. After blocking all music to UK users while demanding lower PRS fees, the video site is now yanking tunes in Germany, after the expiration of its contract with local royalty collector GEMA on Thursday.The difference? GEMA's rates are 50 times more than even PRS', GooTube EMEA head Patrick Walker told Der Spiegel: \"It's unprecedented in the history of music video streaming.\" While PRS charges \u00a30.0022 per track, GEMA's standard on-demand music rate is \u20ac0.12 (\u00a30.11) for every song up to five minutes, and more for longer tracks and those with ads. That seems to be at least a \u20ac120,000 bill for every million music streams.GEMA tells Der Spiegel it had, in fact, offered YouTube a rate of just \u20ac0.01 per track - but says YouTube is not ready to give it the transparency it wants, in return, on its required repertoire. So it looks like the fragmentation of European copyright collection is scuppering this relationship, too. GEMA chief executive Harald Heker, in a release, said: \"It is a fundamental clash between GEMA and Google/YouTube from. Other European companies, which are also use musical rights, are in the same difficult situation. GEMA represents 60,000 composers, authors and music publishers and the rights of more than a million copyright owners internationally whose works are used in Germany.From paidContent:UK:\u2022 Broadband Content Bits new 4OD catch KateModern in Japan Google suggest UK\u2022 Digital Britain consumer group opposes rights agency\u2022 Ingenious Media writes down \u00a310m Incisive Media investment\u2022 Europe agrees telecoms reform but three still undecided\u2022 Print roundup the Sun Online gameshow BBC kids' mags shut MEN cuts free copiesFrom paidContent:\u2022 Industry Moves: USAT publisher Craig Moon calls it day; no replacement named yet\u2022 TubeMogul raises $3m for video analytics\u2022 Who's saying what: a recap of predictions for 2009 ad spending\u2022 Tanking yellow sales send Idearc into bankruptcy\u2022 Conde Nast layoffs hit CondeNet Maruzzi replacement underway\u2022 Industry Moves: Facebook chief financial officer Gideon Yu leaving", "tags": ["YouTube", "Digital music and audio", "Digital media", "Google", "Media"], "title": "Now YouTube stops the music in Germany"},{"date": "2009-06-06T10:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "No, we are not lazy, screamed the headline of Germany's best-selling tabloid, Bild, on Thursday. Three politicians from competing parties, from the conservative CDU to the liberal FDP, took an unusual step: please go to vote on Sunday, they begged together. They fear a record low turnout.The desperation is not completely unfounded. Germans seem to be interested in anything else, like the rescue package for carmaker Opel or rising rents in Berlin or what to do with a 100 people-strong family of Roma people, but not in the European elections. Last time, the turnout in Germany was about 42%, in Berlin it was even lower, 38.6%. This time the polls forecast worse. \"What does it have to do with me?\" most voters ask. Not many people actually know what the Strasbourg parliament is good at.Europe has also become a byword in Germany for bureaucracy and silly rules, such as the infamous rule on the curviness of cucumbers. It has been abolished, the three politicians cry in their advert. They add that the administration of Europe only cost \u20ac3 per citizen. \"Not more than a glass of beer,\" they say. Europe \u2013 just another glass of beer? Is that the only thing they could come up with?This is one of the rare moments when one wishes for a politician like Helmut Kohl, the former chancellor, who really was a passionate and devoted European, who used his post-war experience to prevent another horrible division of the continent. They younger generation seems more superficial, just keen on keeping their posts.It also seems wrong that the politicians are suddenly so desperate to raise our interest in Europe, which they largely ignore outside election time. Suddenly they seem to be very keen to get their message across. Even the Chancellor, Angela Merkel, held a rally in Berlin on Thursday to support the CDU candidates. But, one wonders, where have they been for the last five years, and why do we hear so little about the work of MEPs during their tenure?There is a lack of understanding of what MEPs actually do and how effective they are. This is not only the politicians' fault \u2013 outside election times, there is little media reporting to make processes in Brussels more transparent. The main problem, though, is the national government. It has nurtured a hypocritical attitude: the national parties are quick to blame the \"bureaucrats in Brussels\", if it suits them. If there is something voter-friendly coming out of the EU, they claim the success for themselves. When the interior minister recently pretended to have increased refunds for delayed train travel, she was only passing on EU legislation.\u00a0", "tags": ["European elections", "Germany", "European Union", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Europe votes: Is Germany too lazy for Europe? | Sabine Rennefanz"},{"date": "2009-05-08T16:06:26Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government is planning to ban paintball and laser shooting games in reaction to the recent school massacre in which 15 people died.Under legislation agreed by the ruling coalition of the chancellor, Angela \u00adMerkel, using air rifles to shoot paint-filled pellets at opponents is likely to be made illegal, and would be punishable with fines of up to \u20ac5,000 (\u00a34,480).The decision, which is expected to be fast-tracked through the Bundestag before the summer recess, comes two months after 17-year-old Tim Kretschmar shot dead 15 people at his former school in Winnenden, south-west Germany, with a weapon he had taken from his father's bedroom. Kretschmar's love of paintball as well as violent video and computer games was widely publicised.The government has found itself under pressure to tighten gun laws in Germany in what has become one of the main issues before a general election in September.\"This so-called game plays down violence, leading to the danger that people have fewer inhibitions about shooting each other,\" said Dieter Wiefelsputz, of the Social Democrats.Owners of paintball arenas, which are already out of bounds for under-18s, said they felt they were easy targets in what opposition politicians have referred to as \"populistic placebo politics\".Arne Petry, spokesman for the German Paintball League, said: \"Paintball is not about simulating bloodbaths \u2013 the most you're going to end up with is a bruise or two.\"The owner of one of Germany's largest paintball halls, north-west of Berlin, said he thought the ban ironic, not least because \"many of my customers are government workers\". He said he counted bank managers, firefighters, police and even security guards from Merkel's chancellery among his regular customers.\"They come here after their shifts to let off steam and stay for several hours at a time,\" he said, requesting anonymity.The new law is also expected to forbid under-18s access to high-calibre guns and to make it easier for police to carry out random controls at the homes of registered gun owners.Claudia Roth, head of the Green party, said that while she was no fan of paintball, the government's plan to ban it was hypocritical and amounted to a \"cowardly concession to the gun lobby\".\"They should instead be banning high-calibre weapons,\" she said.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany to ban paintball after massacre"},{"date": "2009-04-14T16:19:39Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has thrown its weight behind a growing European mutiny over genetically modified crops by banning the planting of a widely grown pest-resistant corn variety.Agriculture minister Ilse Aigner said there was enough evidence to support arguments that MON 810, which is the only GM crop widely grown in Europe, posed a danger.\"I have come to the conclusion that genetically-modified corn from the MON 810 strain constitutes a danger to the environment,\" Aigner told reporters in Berlin.Germany's move, which has immediate effect, goes against the European Commission's decision to support the lifting of bans on planting MON 810 which have been imposed by governments in France, Austria, Hungary, Greece and Luxembourg.In the UK, the Welsh Assembly has declared the country GM-free. Supported by Britain, Finland, the Netherlands and Sweden, the Commission argued last month that moves to outlaw the corn on the grounds that it is dangerous were unjust because it has been deemed safe by scientists at the European Food Safety Authority.MON 810 was first approved for commercial use in the EU in 1998 and has been permitted as a commercial crop in Germany since 2005. More than 70 per cent of German consumers support a ban on GM crops for food.The US biotechnology firm Monsanto which markets the maize did not return calls but industry observers said the ban by Europe's largest country with a strong agricultural lobby, was a blow to the company.MON 810 was developed to resist a moth larva which bores into the stem of the corn and against which there is only one approved insecticide.Monsanto has repeatedly argued that MON 810 crops are safe and has tried to encourage their use as a cheap and plentiful food. They are widely grown in the US, Latin America and China.But opponents insist that too little is known about GM crops and their long-term genetic impact on wildlife and the food-chain.The German ban will now be analysed by the Commission, amid fears it could trigger trade tensions with the US. Under World Trade Organisation rules, the US administration has the right to retaliate.Nathalie Charbonneau a spokeswoman for the Commission said it would scrutinise the German decision and \"decide on the most appropriate follow-up\".Lobbyists for the biotechnology industry in Germany described the decision as a setback for science and for the economy. They warned that it would prompt biotechnology companies to relocate to other parts of the world.", "tags": ["GM", "Agriculture", "Science", "Germany", "World news", "Environment", "Food", "Europe"], "title": "Germany deals blow to GM crops"},{"date": "2009-04-04T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Claims by Germany and France in the run-up to last week's G20 meeting that big fiscal boosts were inflationary and unnecessary belied the fact that the big eurozone economies are stuck in a deflationary spiral.Growth in the German economy was worse than either Britain or the United States in the fourth quarter of last year, and last week its unemployment rate rose to 8.1%, well above Britain's 6.6% rate, although still below the US's 8.5%. Unemployment has reached 3.4 million; retail sales are falling; consumer confidence remains weak; and business confidence hit a record low last month. Meanwhile, inflation in the eurozone as a whole has fallen to its lowest level to date on the consumer price index (CPI) measure at just 0.6%, and the euro remains relatively strong against the pound and dollar.That did not stop German Chancellor Angela Merkel arguing against further fiscal stimulus on the grounds that it could prove inflationary and therefore unsustainable. France's President, Nicolas Sarkozy, made similar noises, and so renewed fiscal stimulus disappeared from the G20 agenda.However, the Japanese prime minister, Taro Aso, said fiscal stimulus was urgently needed. \"Because of the experience of the past 15 years, we know what is necessary, while countries like the US and European countries may be facing this sort of situation for the first time,\" he said.Germany had felt relatively immune from the credit crisis, as it had not had an unsustainable boom in consumption and house prices. It was, however, far too dependent on exports, and now that world trade has collapsed, its lack of domestic demand has left it painfully exposed. Analysts think the first quarter of this year could see its worst economic performance since the second world war. France, too, is looking very sickly. Its unemployment level jumped 80,000 in February to nearly 2.4 million - well above Britain's, even though the populations are broadly similar. And its statistics office expects joblessness to rise to almost 9% in the current quarter. Rising unemployment is a big worry in France, where consumer spending is a mainstay of the economy. Consumer confidence has plunged, and spending in February fell at its fastest pace in more than a year. As in Germany, business confidence is at a record low.The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development last week forecast that the German economy would shrink by even more than the UK's and the US's this year, with France not far behind. Many economists in France and Germany are even gloomier.The European Central Bank has come to the rescue to some extent, but last week surprised analysts by cutting interest rates by only a quarter of a point, to 1.25%. In Britain rates are at 0.5% and in the US at 0.25%. Many analysts have criticised the ECB for being too slow to react to the downturn.Japan and China - the world's other big surplus, exporting countries - have grasped the importance of reflating their economies quickly. Germany, though, is in trouble, but refuses to take the necessary action, such as slashing taxes. And if it goes into an even deeper slump, as seems likely, the whole continent will suffer.", "tags": ["Global economy", "Business", "Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany has more to fear than inflation"},{"date": "2009-04-03T23:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "\"Thousands of Americans in Paris during the Nazi era? Can that be true?\" wondered William Boyd in the Sunday Times, reviewing Americans in Paris: Life and Death Under Nazi Occupation 1940-44. \"It is the freshness and unfamiliarity of these narratives that make this book so intriguing ... Among the small lexicon of technical phrases that a screenwriter requires, one of the most useful is 'another angle'. This is used when you want a scene to be reshot, obliquely, from a second point of view. Charles Glass provides 'another angle' on the familiar and often-told story of Paris under the Nazi occupation that makes it new again.\" \"If Germany had conquered this country in 1940, what - as an adult at the time - would you have done?\" asked Noel Malcolm in the Sunday Telegraph. \"I expect everyone has fantasised, one way or another, about this. And I also expect that, in our fantasies, we are all rather heroic ... Most of us, I think, will close this book knowing that we would have fallen far below our own ideals. Charles Glass describes the various realities with just the right combination of objectivity and compassion; this is a moving and deeply thought-provoking book.\"\"Smart, provocative, often very funny, but ultimately deeply sobering, Jeff in Venice, Death in Varanasi is an early contender for the most original, and the cleverest, novel of the year,\" declared Mick Brown in the Daily Telegraph. \"What Geoff Dyer puts his protagonist through, first in Venice, and then in Varanasi, is the test all of his alter egos invariably face: how to achieve, as he defines it, 'existential contentment,'\" wrote Matt Thorne in the Sunday Telegraph. \"This is Dyer's great theme, and this novel his finest exploration of it: a career-best performance from one of England's greatest (if most reluctant) novelists.\" \"All the way through there is a sense of being kept at arm's length, not quite being let in on the deeper meaning or the cosmic joke (if there is one),\" said Tim Teeman in the Times. \"But Dyer's eccentric charm and barbed perceptiveness will hook you to the end.\"\"The material Claire Harman has deftly put together makes two things strikingly apparent: no reading of Jane, however seemingly wayward, is a misreading; and Austen's major effect is to inspire good writing,\" wrote Frances Wilson in the Daily Telegraph, reviewing Jane's Fame: How Jane Austen Conquered the World. \"Harman presents a writer who was deadly serious about her work, her reputation and her independence, who took control of her own career and negotiated hard with her publishers,\" said Paula Byrne in the Sunday Telegraph. \"Is there anything new here? Well, not really ... but no matter - it's the quality of the insights and the interpretations that make this book such a good read.\" \"Harman locates two moments when Austen's reputation took off,\" observed John Sutherland in the Times. \"The first was in the 1890s, when, among many other cults and secret societies, 'Austenolatry' became fashionable among the cognoscenti. These cultists lit the 'Janeite' fuse. The second is the chick-lit boom of the 1990s. Austen was Mills & Boon repackaged for the new, savvy, female youth market who, unlike their predecessors, had higher education. Jane went nova alongside Sex and the City, the movie Clueless and Bridget Jones's Diary. The chicks did it.\"", "tags": ["Books", "Culture"], "title": "Critical eye: If Germany had won the war ..."},{"date": "2009-04-01T10:52:41Z", "country": "germany", "content": "At this rate, YouTube will have precious little music left. After blocking all music to UK users while demanding lower PRS fees, the video site is now yanking tunes in Germany, after the expiration of its contract with local royalty collector GEMA on Thursday.The difference? GEMA's rates are 50 times more than even PRS', GooTube EMEA head Patrick Walker told Der Spiegel: \"It's unprecedented in the history of music video streaming.\" While PRS charges \u00a30.0022 per track, GEMA's standard on-demand music rate is \u20ac0.12 (\u00a30.11) for every song up to five minutes, and more for longer tracks and those with ads. That seems to be at least a \u20ac120,000 bill for every million music streams.GEMA tells Der Spiegel it had, in fact, offered YouTube a rate of just \u20ac0.01 per track - but says YouTube is not ready to give it the transparency it wants, in return, on its required repertoire. So it looks like the fragmentation of European copyright collection is scuppering this relationship, too. GEMA chief executive Harald Heker, in a release, said: \"It is a fundamental clash between GEMA and Google/YouTube from. Other European companies, which are also use musical rights, are in the same difficult situation. GEMA represents 60,000 composers, authors and music publishers and the rights of more than a million copyright owners internationally whose works are used in Germany.From paidContent:UK:\u2022 Broadband Content Bits new 4OD catch KateModern in Japan Google suggest UK\u2022 Digital Britain consumer group opposes rights agency\u2022 Ingenious Media writes down \u00a310m Incisive Media investment\u2022 Europe agrees telecoms reform but three still undecided\u2022 Print roundup the Sun Online gameshow BBC kids' mags shut MEN cuts free copiesFrom paidContent:\u2022 Industry Moves: USAT publisher Craig Moon calls it day; no replacement named yet\u2022 TubeMogul raises $3m for video analytics\u2022 Who's saying what: a recap of predictions for 2009 ad spending\u2022 Tanking yellow sales send Idearc into bankruptcy\u2022 Conde Nast layoffs hit CondeNet Maruzzi replacement underway\u2022 Industry Moves: Facebook chief financial officer Gideon Yu leaving", "tags": ["YouTube", "Digital music and audio", "Digital media", "Google", "Media"], "title": "Now YouTube stops the music in Germany"},{"date": "2009-06-05T10:43:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Barack Obama today signalled the start of a new push for peace in the Middle East following his speech in Cairo yesterday calling for a new beginning between the US and Muslim countries.During a visit to Germany, the US president said: \"The moment is now for us to act.\"He announced that US special envoy George Mitchell would return to the region next week to follow up on his plea in Cairo for both Israeli and Palestinian leaders to give ground.\"I am confident that if we stick with it, having started early, we can make some serious progress this year,\" Obama told a joint news conference with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, in Dresden.\"The moment is now for us to act on what we all know to be the truth, which is that each side is going to have to make some difficult compromises.\"While the entire international community would have to help Israelis and Palestinians achieve peace, \"ultimately the parties involved have to make the decision that the prosperity and security of their people are best served\" by an accord, he said.Merkel promised to cooperate in her own right.Unlike George Bush, Obama has thrown the US into the cauldron of Middle East peacemaking from the beginning of his presidency. In his speech at Cairo University, Obama called on Palestinian and Arab leaders to contribute to the search for peace and choose \"progress\" over the \"self-defeating\" policies of the past. While declaring the US bond with Israel \"unbreakable\", he nevertheless publicly challenged the Israeli prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, by declaring that the building of Jewish settlements on Palestinian land must stop.On other matters, Obama said he had seen \"some progress\" towards financial stability in the wake of the global economic crisis, and he and Merkel agreed they must continue to work closely to restore their economies and those of other countries.The leaders spoke after meeting privately at a castle in Dresden, a city flattened by air raids at the end of the second world war.Obama was next due to tour the Buchenwald concentration camp, where an estimated 56,000 people died, most being Jews who were worked to death, shot or hanged by Nazi guards. He will then travel to a US military hospital in Landstuhl, western Germany, to visit soldiers wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan, before heading for the 65th anniversary of the D-Day landings in France.Obama is believed to want to use his trips to Germany and France to send a strong message to Americans that fighting tyranny demands sacrifice.", "tags": ["Obama administration", "Germany", "Palestinian territories", "Israel", "Middle East and North Africa", "Second world war", "Global recession", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Angela Merkel", "US politics", "Europe"], "title": "Obama in Germany speaks of Middle East confidence"},{"date": "2009-09-25T23:06:07Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Whether at home or abroad, the British political class dislikes coalitions. \"Set Angela free,\" the Economist implored German voters last week. \"Unleash Merkel,\" chorused the Times yesterday. There are two main problems with this British wish for Germany to experience the smack of firm government under Angela Merkel. The first is that every plausible outcome of tomorrow's German general election will produce a coalition of some sort \u2013 with all the compromises and postponements of difficult choices which this involves. The second is that during the campaign the German electorate has shown very little sign of wanting to reject the \"grand coalition\" between the centre-right CDU and the centre-left SPD over which Mrs Merkel has presided for the past four years.Ideological partisans reflexively assume that crisply defined government in their own image is or ought to be the norm. The trouble is that partisan government prospers more easily under unfair electoral systems like Britain's first-past-the-post system \u2013 and even better without any elections at all \u2013 than it does under fairer ones like Germany's checked and balanced proportional system. If the polls in Germany are even approximately reliable this time, no party in the next Bundestag is likely to have much more than a third of the electorate's support. According to yesterday's Stern-Forsa poll, the CDU-CSU is on 33% and the SPD on 25%, with the liberal FDP 14%, the Left 12% and the Greens 10%. A coalition government is therefore all but inevitable. The only questions are which coalition it should be and whether it is strong enough to govern effectively.As the poll figures show, there seems to be no majority in Germany for a coalition of either the left or the right. Perhaps tomorrow's voting will spring a surprise. But the logical conclusion from the 2009 election campaign is that Germans have been reasonably happy with the grand coalition of the centre parties and would like it to continue, almost certainly under the popular and consensual Mrs Merkel. Who, least of all in this more unsettled country, is to say they are wrong? These have been difficult times for all industrial economies. A coalition which balances the CDU's historic commitment to the social market with the SPD's jobs and social justice concerns during such upheaval makes more sense than some of the alternatives.British observers may sneer. But maybe we should be more humble. Part of what is wrong with our politics is our unfair electoral system. With a fairer system \u2013 and perhaps even without one \u2013 we too may one day face the need for coalition government. In such circumstances, a peacetime British grand coalition might not be as unthinkable as it seems right now.", "tags": ["Germany", "European elections", "Angela Merkel", "Proportional representation", "Politics", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Grand bargain"},{"date": "2009-09-25T23:06:07Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Whether at home or abroad, the British political class dislikes coalitions. \"Set Angela free,\" the Economist implored German voters last week. \"Unleash Merkel,\" chorused the Times yesterday. There are two main problems with this British wish for Germany to experience the smack of firm government under Angela Merkel. The first is that every plausible outcome of tomorrow's German general election will produce a coalition of some sort \u2013 with all the compromises and postponements of difficult choices which this involves. The second is that during the campaign the German electorate has shown very little sign of wanting to reject the \"grand coalition\" between the centre-right CDU and the centre-left SPD over which Mrs Merkel has presided for the past four years.Ideological partisans reflexively assume that crisply defined government in their own image is or ought to be the norm. The trouble is that partisan government prospers more easily under unfair electoral systems like Britain's first-past-the-post system \u2013 and even better without any elections at all \u2013 than it does under fairer ones like Germany's checked and balanced proportional system. If the polls in Germany are even approximately reliable this time, no party in the next Bundestag is likely to have much more than a third of the electorate's support. According to yesterday's Stern-Forsa poll, the CDU-CSU is on 33% and the SPD on 25%, with the liberal FDP 14%, the Left 12% and the Greens 10%. A coalition government is therefore all but inevitable. The only questions are which coalition it should be and whether it is strong enough to govern effectively.As the poll figures show, there seems to be no majority in Germany for a coalition of either the left or the right. Perhaps tomorrow's voting will spring a surprise. But the logical conclusion from the 2009 election campaign is that Germans have been reasonably happy with the grand coalition of the centre parties and would like it to continue, almost certainly under the popular and consensual Mrs Merkel. Who, least of all in this more unsettled country, is to say they are wrong? These have been difficult times for all industrial economies. A coalition which balances the CDU's historic commitment to the social market with the SPD's jobs and social justice concerns during such upheaval makes more sense than some of the alternatives.British observers may sneer. But maybe we should be more humble. Part of what is wrong with our politics is our unfair electoral system. With a fairer system \u2013 and perhaps even without one \u2013 we too may one day face the need for coalition government. In such circumstances, a peacetime British grand coalition might not be as unthinkable as it seems right now.", "tags": ["Germany", "European elections", "Angela Merkel", "Proportional representation", "Politics", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Grand bargain"},{"date": "2009-09-28T23:05:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday 30 September 2009In the article below analysing the German election result we noted that the CDU-CSU parnership gained 33.8% of the vote, but went astray in saying this compared with 40.8% of the vote four years ago. In the 2005 election this pairing won 35.2%. There have been four general elections in the elite group of the world's most powerful economies since the global financial crisis first erupted. Two of them, in the US and Japan, have produced decisive moves to the left in favour of change. The two others, in Canada and the weekend federal election in Germany, have produced much less radical outcomes, keeping competent centre-right governments in power.The most important feature of the German election result is that Angela Merkel's CDU-CSU has been returned to office in a new coalition with the liberal FDP. But the most striking aspect of Sunday's poll is that the two previously dominant parties have been cut down to size. Four years ago, the CDU-CSU took 40.8% of the vote and was forced into a centrist \"grand\" coalition with the centre-left SPD. This time, Mrs Merkel's vote fell to 33.8%. She has been helped in retaining power by the rise in the FDP vote, which went from 9.8% in 2005 to 14.6% today. This was the liberals' year. Their success means a narrow majority for tax cuts and renewed public service reforms, and for nuclear power; whether the new coalition will be able to put either policy into practice will be the key domestic test for Germany.Much of that will depend on what happens to the now seriously weakened and divided German left. It is 11 years since the SPD ousted Helmut Kohl and formed a majority coalition with the Greens. Now, however, the SPD's vote has hit its lowest-ever mark of 23% and the CDU-FDP coalition is back. (By coincidence, a ComRes poll in yesterday's Independent showed Labour on 23% in this country too; times are tough for social democrats in many parts of Europe.) The strength of the Left party, which polled 12% and gets its most concentrated support in the old East Germany, is a challenge to which the SPD has failed to respond.All in all, however, the two big parties which have headed every German government since the second world war are now down to less than 57% of the vote. All the minor parties polled strongly and increased their shares. For the first time in modern Germany, all the parties in the new Bundestag have polled more than 10% but less than 40%. Multi-party politics has never been more deeply entrenched in Germany than it is now. Germans have nevertheless rewarded Mrs Merkel for steering a coalition with the SPD through turbulent economic times, without presiding over economic disaster or abandoning popular social programmes. Germans have not voted for radical change. They have given a vote of confidence to their tried and tested social market model, but in a very different way from before.\u2022 This article was amended on 1 October 2009. The original said that the FDP took only 4.7% of the vote in 2005. It also said that the 2009 election result cut the two major parties down to size in an unprecedented way. These errors have been corrected.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Back to party politics"},{"date": "2009-09-25T23:06:07Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Whether at home or abroad, the British political class dislikes coalitions. \"Set Angela free,\" the Economist implored German voters last week. \"Unleash Merkel,\" chorused the Times yesterday. There are two main problems with this British wish for Germany to experience the smack of firm government under Angela Merkel. The first is that every plausible outcome of tomorrow's German general election will produce a coalition of some sort \u2013 with all the compromises and postponements of difficult choices which this involves. The second is that during the campaign the German electorate has shown very little sign of wanting to reject the \"grand coalition\" between the centre-right CDU and the centre-left SPD over which Mrs Merkel has presided for the past four years.Ideological partisans reflexively assume that crisply defined government in their own image is or ought to be the norm. The trouble is that partisan government prospers more easily under unfair electoral systems like Britain's first-past-the-post system \u2013 and even better without any elections at all \u2013 than it does under fairer ones like Germany's checked and balanced proportional system. If the polls in Germany are even approximately reliable this time, no party in the next Bundestag is likely to have much more than a third of the electorate's support. According to yesterday's Stern-Forsa poll, the CDU-CSU is on 33% and the SPD on 25%, with the liberal FDP 14%, the Left 12% and the Greens 10%. A coalition government is therefore all but inevitable. The only questions are which coalition it should be and whether it is strong enough to govern effectively.As the poll figures show, there seems to be no majority in Germany for a coalition of either the left or the right. Perhaps tomorrow's voting will spring a surprise. But the logical conclusion from the 2009 election campaign is that Germans have been reasonably happy with the grand coalition of the centre parties and would like it to continue, almost certainly under the popular and consensual Mrs Merkel. Who, least of all in this more unsettled country, is to say they are wrong? These have been difficult times for all industrial economies. A coalition which balances the CDU's historic commitment to the social market with the SPD's jobs and social justice concerns during such upheaval makes more sense than some of the alternatives.British observers may sneer. But maybe we should be more humble. Part of what is wrong with our politics is our unfair electoral system. With a fairer system \u2013 and perhaps even without one \u2013 we too may one day face the need for coalition government. In such circumstances, a peacetime British grand coalition might not be as unthinkable as it seems right now.", "tags": ["Germany", "European elections", "Angela Merkel", "Proportional representation", "Politics", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Grand bargain"},{"date": "2009-09-28T23:05:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday 30 September 2009In the article below analysing the German election result we noted that the CDU-CSU parnership gained 33.8% of the vote, but went astray in saying this compared with 40.8% of the vote four years ago. In the 2005 election this pairing won 35.2%. There have been four general elections in the elite group of the world's most powerful economies since the global financial crisis first erupted. Two of them, in the US and Japan, have produced decisive moves to the left in favour of change. The two others, in Canada and the weekend federal election in Germany, have produced much less radical outcomes, keeping competent centre-right governments in power.The most important feature of the German election result is that Angela Merkel's CDU-CSU has been returned to office in a new coalition with the liberal FDP. But the most striking aspect of Sunday's poll is that the two previously dominant parties have been cut down to size. Four years ago, the CDU-CSU took 40.8% of the vote and was forced into a centrist \"grand\" coalition with the centre-left SPD. This time, Mrs Merkel's vote fell to 33.8%. She has been helped in retaining power by the rise in the FDP vote, which went from 9.8% in 2005 to 14.6% today. This was the liberals' year. Their success means a narrow majority for tax cuts and renewed public service reforms, and for nuclear power; whether the new coalition will be able to put either policy into practice will be the key domestic test for Germany.Much of that will depend on what happens to the now seriously weakened and divided German left. It is 11 years since the SPD ousted Helmut Kohl and formed a majority coalition with the Greens. Now, however, the SPD's vote has hit its lowest-ever mark of 23% and the CDU-FDP coalition is back. (By coincidence, a ComRes poll in yesterday's Independent showed Labour on 23% in this country too; times are tough for social democrats in many parts of Europe.) The strength of the Left party, which polled 12% and gets its most concentrated support in the old East Germany, is a challenge to which the SPD has failed to respond.All in all, however, the two big parties which have headed every German government since the second world war are now down to less than 57% of the vote. All the minor parties polled strongly and increased their shares. For the first time in modern Germany, all the parties in the new Bundestag have polled more than 10% but less than 40%. Multi-party politics has never been more deeply entrenched in Germany than it is now. Germans have nevertheless rewarded Mrs Merkel for steering a coalition with the SPD through turbulent economic times, without presiding over economic disaster or abandoning popular social programmes. Germans have not voted for radical change. They have given a vote of confidence to their tried and tested social market model, but in a very different way from before.\u2022 This article was amended on 1 October 2009. The original said that the FDP took only 4.7% of the vote in 2005. It also said that the 2009 election result cut the two major parties down to size in an unprecedented way. These errors have been corrected.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Back to party politics"},{"date": "2009-09-25T15:30:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It was the most excruciating moment in German-Russian relations. Asked what he thought of Vladimir Putin, given Russia's alarming slide on press freedom, human rights and many other matters, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der came up with a memorable phrase. Putin, Schr\u00f6der said, was \"a lupenrein democrat\" \u2013 a word that translates as flawless or immaculate.Given Russia's second brutal entry into Chechnya, Putin's decision in 2004 to abolish gubernatorial elections, and the squeeze on Russia's opposition, Schr\u00f6der's comment was embarrassing and ridiculous. During his time as chancellor, Schr\u00f6der cultivated what came to be known as a M\u00e4nnerfreundschaft: a close male buddy relationship in which the two leaders \u2013 Putin's German is fluent from his spy days in Dresden \u2014 used the backslapping \"Du\" form.Under Schr\u00f6der, little was said on Russia's dismal human rights record. And Putin's belief that he could buy up Europe's political elite was depressingly proved correct when, weeks after leaving office in late 2005, the ex-chancellor took a big-paying job as supervisory chairman on the Nord Stream project. The German-Russian pipeline \u2013 which will see Russian gas transported under the Baltic Sea, avoiding Poland \u2013 predictably enrages and irritates Germany's eastern EU neighbours, as well as Sweden.An interesting question ahead of Sunday's general election is how much Germany's Russia policy has changed under chancellor Angela Merkel. At first it appeared Merkel would take a more critical tone in her dealings with Putin. Merkel, of course, grew up in communist East Germany, a Soviet client state. She warily understands the KGB, Putin's old employer. An outstanding student, she won prizes for her Russian. (During an early teenage trip to Moscow, she returned to her rustic pastor family home with the Beatles' Yellow Submarine.)During her first visit to Russia as chancellor, in January 2006, Merkel made a point of meeting human rights activists \u2013 an apparent break with the sleazy Schr\u00f6der era. She also promised to visit Warsaw (though she never actually got there) in an attempt to assuage the unhappy Poles and Baltic states over Nord Stream. And though I can't vouch for their private conversations, it seems unlikely that Volodya and Angie use the \"Du\" form with each other.In reality, however, Germany's Russian policy under Merkel hasn't changed \u2014 and is simply a more sober form of Schr\u00f6derism. This isn't surprising. Schr\u00f6der's former chief of staff, Franz-Walter Steinmeier, the architect of Schr\u00f6der's pro-Russian foreign policy, has spent the past four years sitting in Germany's grand coalition government as Merkel's foreign minister. A fierce opponent of all attempts to \"isolate\" Russia, Steinmeier is now her rival for the chancellorship.Germany's pro-Russian business lobbies remain as strong as ever. And while there are differences in emphasis between Merkel's Christian Democrats and Steinmeier's Social Democrats on Russia, both agree that Germany needs Russia's energy. Gazprom even sponsors a German football team, Schalke 04. (The political scientist Jochen Franzke dubs the SPD attitude as \"Keep quiet and gas\". The CDU attitude, he says, is \"Talk but gas\".)As Alexander Rahr, the programme director of the German Council on Foreign Relations, points out, Merkel is pursuing the same Russia policy with Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev as Schr\u00f6der did with Putin, and as her political mentor Helmut Kohl did with Boris Yeltsin.Summed up, it goes like this: Germany is Russia's closest ally inside Europe. Berlin remains a pragmatic advocate for Russia within the EU and Nato \u2013 to the point of defending Moscow from attacks by the new EU members of eastern Europe.There are, of course, sound reasons for this: Germany is Russia's biggest export and trading partner. Germany is also the biggest EU customer for Russian oil and gas. Three million Russians, meanwhile, most of them of Jewish heritage, now live in Germany, forming the second largest non-German population after the Turks. Germany has an embassy and four consulates in Russia, as well more than 300 NGOs actively involved in work with Moscow.According to Rahr, there is a historical explanation for Germany's Sonderverh\u00e4ltnis, or special relationship, with Russia, which appears to have survived two devastating world wars. (Russia puts its dead from the last one at 27 million. The fact that Germany isn't a geopolitical rival to Russia, like the US, may also help.)\"Germany has a special relationship with Russia over centuries, going back not just to Bismarck, but to the Russian kings. We have closer links than the French, the Swiss, or the Austrians, and the Poles and the Swedes,\" Rahr says. \"Education and German universities are less critical of Russian history, more interested in the allure of Russia, and more understanding of Russia's role in Europe than in other countries,\" he adds.Over the past two years Merkel has demonstrated that her politics are every bit as pro-Russian as Schr\u00f6der's. She has consolidated several of the deals begun by the Schr\u00f6der administration. She is pressing ahead with Nord Stream. Merkel is also firmly opposed to extending Nato membership to Ukraine or Georgia \u2013 a red line for the Kremlin, which now says it is entitled to a zone of influence in its near abroad. Merkel has also recently indicated that she is not averse to Gazprom investing in Germany.She still talks about human rights, of course. When Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev visited Germany over the summer, Merkel called for an investigation into the murder of the activist Natalia Estemirova, who was abducted in July from her home in Chechnya's Grozny and shot.Merkel may not be buddies with Medvedev. But she clearly prefers dealing with him to meeting Putin. As everyone in Russia knows, however, Medvedev is not actually the man in charge.", "tags": ["Germany", "Russia", "Angela Merkel", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Gas", "International trade", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany and Russia: likely bedfellows | Luke Harding"},{"date": "2009-09-25T23:06:07Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Whether at home or abroad, the British political class dislikes coalitions. \"Set Angela free,\" the Economist implored German voters last week. \"Unleash Merkel,\" chorused the Times yesterday. There are two main problems with this British wish for Germany to experience the smack of firm government under Angela Merkel. The first is that every plausible outcome of tomorrow's German general election will produce a coalition of some sort \u2013 with all the compromises and postponements of difficult choices which this involves. The second is that during the campaign the German electorate has shown very little sign of wanting to reject the \"grand coalition\" between the centre-right CDU and the centre-left SPD over which Mrs Merkel has presided for the past four years.Ideological partisans reflexively assume that crisply defined government in their own image is or ought to be the norm. The trouble is that partisan government prospers more easily under unfair electoral systems like Britain's first-past-the-post system \u2013 and even better without any elections at all \u2013 than it does under fairer ones like Germany's checked and balanced proportional system. If the polls in Germany are even approximately reliable this time, no party in the next Bundestag is likely to have much more than a third of the electorate's support. According to yesterday's Stern-Forsa poll, the CDU-CSU is on 33% and the SPD on 25%, with the liberal FDP 14%, the Left 12% and the Greens 10%. A coalition government is therefore all but inevitable. The only questions are which coalition it should be and whether it is strong enough to govern effectively.As the poll figures show, there seems to be no majority in Germany for a coalition of either the left or the right. Perhaps tomorrow's voting will spring a surprise. But the logical conclusion from the 2009 election campaign is that Germans have been reasonably happy with the grand coalition of the centre parties and would like it to continue, almost certainly under the popular and consensual Mrs Merkel. Who, least of all in this more unsettled country, is to say they are wrong? These have been difficult times for all industrial economies. A coalition which balances the CDU's historic commitment to the social market with the SPD's jobs and social justice concerns during such upheaval makes more sense than some of the alternatives.British observers may sneer. But maybe we should be more humble. Part of what is wrong with our politics is our unfair electoral system. With a fairer system \u2013 and perhaps even without one \u2013 we too may one day face the need for coalition government. In such circumstances, a peacetime British grand coalition might not be as unthinkable as it seems right now.", "tags": ["Germany", "European elections", "Angela Merkel", "Proportional representation", "Politics", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Grand bargain"},{"date": "2009-09-28T23:05:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday 30 September 2009In the article below analysing the German election result we noted that the CDU-CSU parnership gained 33.8% of the vote, but went astray in saying this compared with 40.8% of the vote four years ago. In the 2005 election this pairing won 35.2%. There have been four general elections in the elite group of the world's most powerful economies since the global financial crisis first erupted. Two of them, in the US and Japan, have produced decisive moves to the left in favour of change. The two others, in Canada and the weekend federal election in Germany, have produced much less radical outcomes, keeping competent centre-right governments in power.The most important feature of the German election result is that Angela Merkel's CDU-CSU has been returned to office in a new coalition with the liberal FDP. But the most striking aspect of Sunday's poll is that the two previously dominant parties have been cut down to size. Four years ago, the CDU-CSU took 40.8% of the vote and was forced into a centrist \"grand\" coalition with the centre-left SPD. This time, Mrs Merkel's vote fell to 33.8%. She has been helped in retaining power by the rise in the FDP vote, which went from 9.8% in 2005 to 14.6% today. This was the liberals' year. Their success means a narrow majority for tax cuts and renewed public service reforms, and for nuclear power; whether the new coalition will be able to put either policy into practice will be the key domestic test for Germany.Much of that will depend on what happens to the now seriously weakened and divided German left. It is 11 years since the SPD ousted Helmut Kohl and formed a majority coalition with the Greens. Now, however, the SPD's vote has hit its lowest-ever mark of 23% and the CDU-FDP coalition is back. (By coincidence, a ComRes poll in yesterday's Independent showed Labour on 23% in this country too; times are tough for social democrats in many parts of Europe.) The strength of the Left party, which polled 12% and gets its most concentrated support in the old East Germany, is a challenge to which the SPD has failed to respond.All in all, however, the two big parties which have headed every German government since the second world war are now down to less than 57% of the vote. All the minor parties polled strongly and increased their shares. For the first time in modern Germany, all the parties in the new Bundestag have polled more than 10% but less than 40%. Multi-party politics has never been more deeply entrenched in Germany than it is now. Germans have nevertheless rewarded Mrs Merkel for steering a coalition with the SPD through turbulent economic times, without presiding over economic disaster or abandoning popular social programmes. Germans have not voted for radical change. They have given a vote of confidence to their tried and tested social market model, but in a very different way from before.\u2022 This article was amended on 1 October 2009. The original said that the FDP took only 4.7% of the vote in 2005. It also said that the 2009 election result cut the two major parties down to size in an unprecedented way. These errors have been corrected.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Back to party politics"},{"date": "2009-09-25T15:30:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It was the most excruciating moment in German-Russian relations. Asked what he thought of Vladimir Putin, given Russia's alarming slide on press freedom, human rights and many other matters, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der came up with a memorable phrase. Putin, Schr\u00f6der said, was \"a lupenrein democrat\" \u2013 a word that translates as flawless or immaculate.Given Russia's second brutal entry into Chechnya, Putin's decision in 2004 to abolish gubernatorial elections, and the squeeze on Russia's opposition, Schr\u00f6der's comment was embarrassing and ridiculous. During his time as chancellor, Schr\u00f6der cultivated what came to be known as a M\u00e4nnerfreundschaft: a close male buddy relationship in which the two leaders \u2013 Putin's German is fluent from his spy days in Dresden \u2014 used the backslapping \"Du\" form.Under Schr\u00f6der, little was said on Russia's dismal human rights record. And Putin's belief that he could buy up Europe's political elite was depressingly proved correct when, weeks after leaving office in late 2005, the ex-chancellor took a big-paying job as supervisory chairman on the Nord Stream project. The German-Russian pipeline \u2013 which will see Russian gas transported under the Baltic Sea, avoiding Poland \u2013 predictably enrages and irritates Germany's eastern EU neighbours, as well as Sweden.An interesting question ahead of Sunday's general election is how much Germany's Russia policy has changed under chancellor Angela Merkel. At first it appeared Merkel would take a more critical tone in her dealings with Putin. Merkel, of course, grew up in communist East Germany, a Soviet client state. She warily understands the KGB, Putin's old employer. An outstanding student, she won prizes for her Russian. (During an early teenage trip to Moscow, she returned to her rustic pastor family home with the Beatles' Yellow Submarine.)During her first visit to Russia as chancellor, in January 2006, Merkel made a point of meeting human rights activists \u2013 an apparent break with the sleazy Schr\u00f6der era. She also promised to visit Warsaw (though she never actually got there) in an attempt to assuage the unhappy Poles and Baltic states over Nord Stream. And though I can't vouch for their private conversations, it seems unlikely that Volodya and Angie use the \"Du\" form with each other.In reality, however, Germany's Russian policy under Merkel hasn't changed \u2014 and is simply a more sober form of Schr\u00f6derism. This isn't surprising. Schr\u00f6der's former chief of staff, Franz-Walter Steinmeier, the architect of Schr\u00f6der's pro-Russian foreign policy, has spent the past four years sitting in Germany's grand coalition government as Merkel's foreign minister. A fierce opponent of all attempts to \"isolate\" Russia, Steinmeier is now her rival for the chancellorship.Germany's pro-Russian business lobbies remain as strong as ever. And while there are differences in emphasis between Merkel's Christian Democrats and Steinmeier's Social Democrats on Russia, both agree that Germany needs Russia's energy. Gazprom even sponsors a German football team, Schalke 04. (The political scientist Jochen Franzke dubs the SPD attitude as \"Keep quiet and gas\". The CDU attitude, he says, is \"Talk but gas\".)As Alexander Rahr, the programme director of the German Council on Foreign Relations, points out, Merkel is pursuing the same Russia policy with Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev as Schr\u00f6der did with Putin, and as her political mentor Helmut Kohl did with Boris Yeltsin.Summed up, it goes like this: Germany is Russia's closest ally inside Europe. Berlin remains a pragmatic advocate for Russia within the EU and Nato \u2013 to the point of defending Moscow from attacks by the new EU members of eastern Europe.There are, of course, sound reasons for this: Germany is Russia's biggest export and trading partner. Germany is also the biggest EU customer for Russian oil and gas. Three million Russians, meanwhile, most of them of Jewish heritage, now live in Germany, forming the second largest non-German population after the Turks. Germany has an embassy and four consulates in Russia, as well more than 300 NGOs actively involved in work with Moscow.According to Rahr, there is a historical explanation for Germany's Sonderverh\u00e4ltnis, or special relationship, with Russia, which appears to have survived two devastating world wars. (Russia puts its dead from the last one at 27 million. The fact that Germany isn't a geopolitical rival to Russia, like the US, may also help.)\"Germany has a special relationship with Russia over centuries, going back not just to Bismarck, but to the Russian kings. We have closer links than the French, the Swiss, or the Austrians, and the Poles and the Swedes,\" Rahr says. \"Education and German universities are less critical of Russian history, more interested in the allure of Russia, and more understanding of Russia's role in Europe than in other countries,\" he adds.Over the past two years Merkel has demonstrated that her politics are every bit as pro-Russian as Schr\u00f6der's. She has consolidated several of the deals begun by the Schr\u00f6der administration. She is pressing ahead with Nord Stream. Merkel is also firmly opposed to extending Nato membership to Ukraine or Georgia \u2013 a red line for the Kremlin, which now says it is entitled to a zone of influence in its near abroad. Merkel has also recently indicated that she is not averse to Gazprom investing in Germany.She still talks about human rights, of course. When Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev visited Germany over the summer, Merkel called for an investigation into the murder of the activist Natalia Estemirova, who was abducted in July from her home in Chechnya's Grozny and shot.Merkel may not be buddies with Medvedev. But she clearly prefers dealing with him to meeting Putin. As everyone in Russia knows, however, Medvedev is not actually the man in charge.", "tags": ["Germany", "Russia", "Angela Merkel", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Gas", "International trade", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany and Russia: likely bedfellows | Luke Harding"},{"date": "2009-09-24T11:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Has Germany taken Prozac? On Sunday, voters will decide who'll be in the next government, yet everything seems so different from four years ago. The mood around the last general parliamentary election seemed feverish by hindsight \u2013 a vote that would decide the future destiny of Germany, a Schicksalswahl. Which government would at last have the strength to modernise our struggling social and welfare systems, adapt to the ageing population, create jobs? Then, there were more than 5 million people unemployed, the mood was dire, consumer spending low, the success of the country's big firms mainly based on exports.The coalition government under former chancellor Gerhard Schr\u00f6der (Social Democrats) and his foreign secretary, Joschka Fischer (Green party), seemed so out of their depth after having tried to adopt Tony Blair's New Labour reforms to a quite different German labour market system. Even traditional left-leaning voters considered voting for the other side \u2013 Angela Merkel and her conservative CDU. The Merkel of 2005 seemed to be a classic market liberal, demanding more freedom for big firms, lower taxes for companies and less regulation for financial businesses. She had promised to simplify Germany's convoluted tax system and she seemed to have big plans for the bureaucratic and expensive healthcare system. When she became chancellor, people compared her to Margaret Thatcher, the Iron Lady.Four years on, we are in the middle of the biggest financial and economic crisis yet the mood is completely different. The election is surrounded by a certain boredom, with people distracting themselves by keeping the economy going, ie shopping. Consumer spending remains defiantly high, and while the unemployment figures don't look too bad, 3.5 million people are without jobs. For the next year the Nuremberg-based labour institute IAB forecasts 4.1 million unemployed, fewer than 2005. The German system of short-time-work, Kurzarbeit, where workers work fewer hours and their wages are subsidised by the government-run Bundesagentur f\u00fcr Arbeit, seems to be paying off. It's designed to enable companies to keep their workforce even in hard times, so when the economy picks up, they don't waste time looking for qualified staff. It has been extended to the end of the year, well after the election. That's also a reason why unemployment figures remain comparatively low.Also, forecasts of growth rates look better than expected. The Institute for Economic Research recently said the economy would grow modestly at 1.5% next year. It's less than before the crisis, but still a sign that Germany will recover from the crisis more quickly than expected. It comes with a big price tag for the taxpayer though.Due to the crisis, the country has moved more towards the left, illustrated by the incredible success of the Left party (the former East German communists) \u2013 and Merkel has moved with it. The price for the calm is high \u2013 the government has spent hundreds of billions of euros in investment programmes to battle the crisis. It leaves Germany with a record public debt. And nobody compares Merkel with Thatcher any more.What an irony: a CDU chancellor with a natural distrust for state power has introduced more state power: she rescued banks, she rescued companies. In time for the election, Merkel's coalition also saved the struggling car-maker Opel by striking a deal with the Canadian-Austrian manufacturer Magna, in which Russia plays a big role. The deal is supported by a Russian state-owned bank, Sberbank. In effect, she has given taxpayers' money to help Russia's prime minister, Vladimir Putin, buy Opel \u2013 \u20ac4.5bn are supposed to go into the deal. According to news magazine Der Spiegel, she has assured Russian president Dmitry Medvedev the help, to get investment for a dying shipbuilding company at the Baltic Sea coast, near Merkel's constituency.The government has also invented another highly expensive, highly questionable programme in the scrappage scheme, designed to keep the dying car industry going. It was highly popular \u2013 and supported an old-fashioned, polluting car industry because there were hardly any incentives to buy green technology. At the recent car fair in Frankfurt, Germany's car industry was massively lagging behind in building electric cars.The scrappage scheme worked like this: You got \u20ac2,500 if you scrapped your old, at least nine years old, car, and bought any new one. The government invested \u20ac5bn but the money ran out three weeks ago. In August alone, 280,000 new cars have been registered.There are big posters in various public places in Berlin, \"We're voting for the chancellor\", beside a picture of Merkel with a beaming smile, brimming with confidence, Merkel remains chancellor, it seems to say, what ever happens. It feels almost smug. She knows the most likely coalition is a continuation of the grand coalition, under her leadership.", "tags": ["Germany", "Angela Merkel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Business as usual in Germany | Sabine Rennefanz"},{"date": "2009-09-25T23:06:07Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Whether at home or abroad, the British political class dislikes coalitions. \"Set Angela free,\" the Economist implored German voters last week. \"Unleash Merkel,\" chorused the Times yesterday. There are two main problems with this British wish for Germany to experience the smack of firm government under Angela Merkel. The first is that every plausible outcome of tomorrow's German general election will produce a coalition of some sort \u2013 with all the compromises and postponements of difficult choices which this involves. The second is that during the campaign the German electorate has shown very little sign of wanting to reject the \"grand coalition\" between the centre-right CDU and the centre-left SPD over which Mrs Merkel has presided for the past four years.Ideological partisans reflexively assume that crisply defined government in their own image is or ought to be the norm. The trouble is that partisan government prospers more easily under unfair electoral systems like Britain's first-past-the-post system \u2013 and even better without any elections at all \u2013 than it does under fairer ones like Germany's checked and balanced proportional system. If the polls in Germany are even approximately reliable this time, no party in the next Bundestag is likely to have much more than a third of the electorate's support. According to yesterday's Stern-Forsa poll, the CDU-CSU is on 33% and the SPD on 25%, with the liberal FDP 14%, the Left 12% and the Greens 10%. A coalition government is therefore all but inevitable. The only questions are which coalition it should be and whether it is strong enough to govern effectively.As the poll figures show, there seems to be no majority in Germany for a coalition of either the left or the right. Perhaps tomorrow's voting will spring a surprise. But the logical conclusion from the 2009 election campaign is that Germans have been reasonably happy with the grand coalition of the centre parties and would like it to continue, almost certainly under the popular and consensual Mrs Merkel. Who, least of all in this more unsettled country, is to say they are wrong? These have been difficult times for all industrial economies. A coalition which balances the CDU's historic commitment to the social market with the SPD's jobs and social justice concerns during such upheaval makes more sense than some of the alternatives.British observers may sneer. But maybe we should be more humble. Part of what is wrong with our politics is our unfair electoral system. With a fairer system \u2013 and perhaps even without one \u2013 we too may one day face the need for coalition government. In such circumstances, a peacetime British grand coalition might not be as unthinkable as it seems right now.", "tags": ["Germany", "European elections", "Angela Merkel", "Proportional representation", "Politics", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Grand bargain"},{"date": "2009-09-28T23:05:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday 30 September 2009In the article below analysing the German election result we noted that the CDU-CSU parnership gained 33.8% of the vote, but went astray in saying this compared with 40.8% of the vote four years ago. In the 2005 election this pairing won 35.2%. There have been four general elections in the elite group of the world's most powerful economies since the global financial crisis first erupted. Two of them, in the US and Japan, have produced decisive moves to the left in favour of change. The two others, in Canada and the weekend federal election in Germany, have produced much less radical outcomes, keeping competent centre-right governments in power.The most important feature of the German election result is that Angela Merkel's CDU-CSU has been returned to office in a new coalition with the liberal FDP. But the most striking aspect of Sunday's poll is that the two previously dominant parties have been cut down to size. Four years ago, the CDU-CSU took 40.8% of the vote and was forced into a centrist \"grand\" coalition with the centre-left SPD. This time, Mrs Merkel's vote fell to 33.8%. She has been helped in retaining power by the rise in the FDP vote, which went from 9.8% in 2005 to 14.6% today. This was the liberals' year. Their success means a narrow majority for tax cuts and renewed public service reforms, and for nuclear power; whether the new coalition will be able to put either policy into practice will be the key domestic test for Germany.Much of that will depend on what happens to the now seriously weakened and divided German left. It is 11 years since the SPD ousted Helmut Kohl and formed a majority coalition with the Greens. Now, however, the SPD's vote has hit its lowest-ever mark of 23% and the CDU-FDP coalition is back. (By coincidence, a ComRes poll in yesterday's Independent showed Labour on 23% in this country too; times are tough for social democrats in many parts of Europe.) The strength of the Left party, which polled 12% and gets its most concentrated support in the old East Germany, is a challenge to which the SPD has failed to respond.All in all, however, the two big parties which have headed every German government since the second world war are now down to less than 57% of the vote. All the minor parties polled strongly and increased their shares. For the first time in modern Germany, all the parties in the new Bundestag have polled more than 10% but less than 40%. Multi-party politics has never been more deeply entrenched in Germany than it is now. Germans have nevertheless rewarded Mrs Merkel for steering a coalition with the SPD through turbulent economic times, without presiding over economic disaster or abandoning popular social programmes. Germans have not voted for radical change. They have given a vote of confidence to their tried and tested social market model, but in a very different way from before.\u2022 This article was amended on 1 October 2009. The original said that the FDP took only 4.7% of the vote in 2005. It also said that the 2009 election result cut the two major parties down to size in an unprecedented way. These errors have been corrected.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Back to party politics"},{"date": "2009-09-25T15:30:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It was the most excruciating moment in German-Russian relations. Asked what he thought of Vladimir Putin, given Russia's alarming slide on press freedom, human rights and many other matters, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der came up with a memorable phrase. Putin, Schr\u00f6der said, was \"a lupenrein democrat\" \u2013 a word that translates as flawless or immaculate.Given Russia's second brutal entry into Chechnya, Putin's decision in 2004 to abolish gubernatorial elections, and the squeeze on Russia's opposition, Schr\u00f6der's comment was embarrassing and ridiculous. During his time as chancellor, Schr\u00f6der cultivated what came to be known as a M\u00e4nnerfreundschaft: a close male buddy relationship in which the two leaders \u2013 Putin's German is fluent from his spy days in Dresden \u2014 used the backslapping \"Du\" form.Under Schr\u00f6der, little was said on Russia's dismal human rights record. And Putin's belief that he could buy up Europe's political elite was depressingly proved correct when, weeks after leaving office in late 2005, the ex-chancellor took a big-paying job as supervisory chairman on the Nord Stream project. The German-Russian pipeline \u2013 which will see Russian gas transported under the Baltic Sea, avoiding Poland \u2013 predictably enrages and irritates Germany's eastern EU neighbours, as well as Sweden.An interesting question ahead of Sunday's general election is how much Germany's Russia policy has changed under chancellor Angela Merkel. At first it appeared Merkel would take a more critical tone in her dealings with Putin. Merkel, of course, grew up in communist East Germany, a Soviet client state. She warily understands the KGB, Putin's old employer. An outstanding student, she won prizes for her Russian. (During an early teenage trip to Moscow, she returned to her rustic pastor family home with the Beatles' Yellow Submarine.)During her first visit to Russia as chancellor, in January 2006, Merkel made a point of meeting human rights activists \u2013 an apparent break with the sleazy Schr\u00f6der era. She also promised to visit Warsaw (though she never actually got there) in an attempt to assuage the unhappy Poles and Baltic states over Nord Stream. And though I can't vouch for their private conversations, it seems unlikely that Volodya and Angie use the \"Du\" form with each other.In reality, however, Germany's Russian policy under Merkel hasn't changed \u2014 and is simply a more sober form of Schr\u00f6derism. This isn't surprising. Schr\u00f6der's former chief of staff, Franz-Walter Steinmeier, the architect of Schr\u00f6der's pro-Russian foreign policy, has spent the past four years sitting in Germany's grand coalition government as Merkel's foreign minister. A fierce opponent of all attempts to \"isolate\" Russia, Steinmeier is now her rival for the chancellorship.Germany's pro-Russian business lobbies remain as strong as ever. And while there are differences in emphasis between Merkel's Christian Democrats and Steinmeier's Social Democrats on Russia, both agree that Germany needs Russia's energy. Gazprom even sponsors a German football team, Schalke 04. (The political scientist Jochen Franzke dubs the SPD attitude as \"Keep quiet and gas\". The CDU attitude, he says, is \"Talk but gas\".)As Alexander Rahr, the programme director of the German Council on Foreign Relations, points out, Merkel is pursuing the same Russia policy with Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev as Schr\u00f6der did with Putin, and as her political mentor Helmut Kohl did with Boris Yeltsin.Summed up, it goes like this: Germany is Russia's closest ally inside Europe. Berlin remains a pragmatic advocate for Russia within the EU and Nato \u2013 to the point of defending Moscow from attacks by the new EU members of eastern Europe.There are, of course, sound reasons for this: Germany is Russia's biggest export and trading partner. Germany is also the biggest EU customer for Russian oil and gas. Three million Russians, meanwhile, most of them of Jewish heritage, now live in Germany, forming the second largest non-German population after the Turks. Germany has an embassy and four consulates in Russia, as well more than 300 NGOs actively involved in work with Moscow.According to Rahr, there is a historical explanation for Germany's Sonderverh\u00e4ltnis, or special relationship, with Russia, which appears to have survived two devastating world wars. (Russia puts its dead from the last one at 27 million. The fact that Germany isn't a geopolitical rival to Russia, like the US, may also help.)\"Germany has a special relationship with Russia over centuries, going back not just to Bismarck, but to the Russian kings. We have closer links than the French, the Swiss, or the Austrians, and the Poles and the Swedes,\" Rahr says. \"Education and German universities are less critical of Russian history, more interested in the allure of Russia, and more understanding of Russia's role in Europe than in other countries,\" he adds.Over the past two years Merkel has demonstrated that her politics are every bit as pro-Russian as Schr\u00f6der's. She has consolidated several of the deals begun by the Schr\u00f6der administration. She is pressing ahead with Nord Stream. Merkel is also firmly opposed to extending Nato membership to Ukraine or Georgia \u2013 a red line for the Kremlin, which now says it is entitled to a zone of influence in its near abroad. Merkel has also recently indicated that she is not averse to Gazprom investing in Germany.She still talks about human rights, of course. When Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev visited Germany over the summer, Merkel called for an investigation into the murder of the activist Natalia Estemirova, who was abducted in July from her home in Chechnya's Grozny and shot.Merkel may not be buddies with Medvedev. But she clearly prefers dealing with him to meeting Putin. As everyone in Russia knows, however, Medvedev is not actually the man in charge.", "tags": ["Germany", "Russia", "Angela Merkel", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Gas", "International trade", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany and Russia: likely bedfellows | Luke Harding"},{"date": "2009-09-24T11:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Has Germany taken Prozac? On Sunday, voters will decide who'll be in the next government, yet everything seems so different from four years ago. The mood around the last general parliamentary election seemed feverish by hindsight \u2013 a vote that would decide the future destiny of Germany, a Schicksalswahl. Which government would at last have the strength to modernise our struggling social and welfare systems, adapt to the ageing population, create jobs? Then, there were more than 5 million people unemployed, the mood was dire, consumer spending low, the success of the country's big firms mainly based on exports.The coalition government under former chancellor Gerhard Schr\u00f6der (Social Democrats) and his foreign secretary, Joschka Fischer (Green party), seemed so out of their depth after having tried to adopt Tony Blair's New Labour reforms to a quite different German labour market system. Even traditional left-leaning voters considered voting for the other side \u2013 Angela Merkel and her conservative CDU. The Merkel of 2005 seemed to be a classic market liberal, demanding more freedom for big firms, lower taxes for companies and less regulation for financial businesses. She had promised to simplify Germany's convoluted tax system and she seemed to have big plans for the bureaucratic and expensive healthcare system. When she became chancellor, people compared her to Margaret Thatcher, the Iron Lady.Four years on, we are in the middle of the biggest financial and economic crisis yet the mood is completely different. The election is surrounded by a certain boredom, with people distracting themselves by keeping the economy going, ie shopping. Consumer spending remains defiantly high, and while the unemployment figures don't look too bad, 3.5 million people are without jobs. For the next year the Nuremberg-based labour institute IAB forecasts 4.1 million unemployed, fewer than 2005. The German system of short-time-work, Kurzarbeit, where workers work fewer hours and their wages are subsidised by the government-run Bundesagentur f\u00fcr Arbeit, seems to be paying off. It's designed to enable companies to keep their workforce even in hard times, so when the economy picks up, they don't waste time looking for qualified staff. It has been extended to the end of the year, well after the election. That's also a reason why unemployment figures remain comparatively low.Also, forecasts of growth rates look better than expected. The Institute for Economic Research recently said the economy would grow modestly at 1.5% next year. It's less than before the crisis, but still a sign that Germany will recover from the crisis more quickly than expected. It comes with a big price tag for the taxpayer though.Due to the crisis, the country has moved more towards the left, illustrated by the incredible success of the Left party (the former East German communists) \u2013 and Merkel has moved with it. The price for the calm is high \u2013 the government has spent hundreds of billions of euros in investment programmes to battle the crisis. It leaves Germany with a record public debt. And nobody compares Merkel with Thatcher any more.What an irony: a CDU chancellor with a natural distrust for state power has introduced more state power: she rescued banks, she rescued companies. In time for the election, Merkel's coalition also saved the struggling car-maker Opel by striking a deal with the Canadian-Austrian manufacturer Magna, in which Russia plays a big role. The deal is supported by a Russian state-owned bank, Sberbank. In effect, she has given taxpayers' money to help Russia's prime minister, Vladimir Putin, buy Opel \u2013 \u20ac4.5bn are supposed to go into the deal. According to news magazine Der Spiegel, she has assured Russian president Dmitry Medvedev the help, to get investment for a dying shipbuilding company at the Baltic Sea coast, near Merkel's constituency.The government has also invented another highly expensive, highly questionable programme in the scrappage scheme, designed to keep the dying car industry going. It was highly popular \u2013 and supported an old-fashioned, polluting car industry because there were hardly any incentives to buy green technology. At the recent car fair in Frankfurt, Germany's car industry was massively lagging behind in building electric cars.The scrappage scheme worked like this: You got \u20ac2,500 if you scrapped your old, at least nine years old, car, and bought any new one. The government invested \u20ac5bn but the money ran out three weeks ago. In August alone, 280,000 new cars have been registered.There are big posters in various public places in Berlin, \"We're voting for the chancellor\", beside a picture of Merkel with a beaming smile, brimming with confidence, Merkel remains chancellor, it seems to say, what ever happens. It feels almost smug. She knows the most likely coalition is a continuation of the grand coalition, under her leadership.", "tags": ["Germany", "Angela Merkel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Business as usual in Germany | Sabine Rennefanz"},{"date": "2009-09-23T16:00:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germans like to complain that this is the most boring election they've ever held. Perhaps they are still dazzled by the American election last year; perhaps they expect similar fireworks in the weeks before the Big Day.Maybe they forget that they live under a multiparty parliamentary system, where the excitement only begins when the polls close. Put that way, this election could end up a turning point \u2013 especially for German-American relations.Here's the good news: if, as expected, the election renews the coalition's mandate, Germany won't be pulling out of Afghanistan any time soon. Nor will the chancellor, Angela Merkel, or vice chancellor, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, immediately take a more confrontational approach on issues like climate change. But neither party prefers the existing arrangement, and most observers expect them to immediately begin positioning themselves for the next elections, which could come well before the mandated 2013 poll.Over time, that dynamic will push parts of the government toward a more critical stance vis-a-vis the US. As soon as the coalition is set, the SPD (Social Democratic party) will almost certainly try to win back voters on the left. The party has suffered from the rise of the Left party, a synthesis of disaffected western German SPD members and eastern German ex-communists.Consistently polling at about 10% (compared with the SPD at about 23%) and led by former SPD bigwig Oskar Lafontaine, on foreign policy the Left calls for a withdrawal from Nato, a curtailing of certain EU commitments and a reduction in military spending, among other goals.Steinmeier has ruled out a coalition with the Left on the national level, but there are many within the SPD who feel the only way back to fighting weight is to either win back the Left's voters or merge the two parties.Since the latter is unlikely with the SPD in a coalition government, there's a good possibility that the Social Democrats will start tacking left, particularly on issues like Afghanistan and climate change, where there exists the potential for significant disagreement between the Christian Democrats (CDU) and the SPD.In the short term, such positioning will remain just talk \u2013 though Steinmeier is and would remain foreign minister, Merkel and the chancellery are the real seat of foreign policymaking. But with the German public increasingly vocal in its opposition to the country's Afghanistan presence, there is little chance that the coalition would permit a new deployment of troops, as President Obama has consistently demanded, and a good chance that Steinmeier could push Merkel into setting an explicit timetable for withdrawal. Either option would be a substantial blow to America's AfPak mission.Climate policy is another place where Obama can expect turbulence, no matter what the outcome on Sunday. European officials at both the national and EU level have been increasingly critical of US inaction on climate change and its apparent lack of resolve in the run-up to December's Copenhagen summit, but Germany has been noticeably mum. That will likely change after the election, particularly as Steinmeier looks to steal support from the Left and the Greens.What if the coalition doesn't continue? The second most likely outcome, at least according to conventional wisdom, is a coalition between the CDU and the free-market Free Democrats (FDP). Both are strong supporters of the Afghanistan deployment and relatively lukewarm on climate policy, making this the best outcome for the US.But two other possible outcomes \u2013 three-way coalitions among the CDU, FDP, and Greens or the SPD, Left, and Greens \u2013 portend significant foreign policy changes. The Greens, who will likely get a vote total in the mid-teens, could easily become the kingmaker in a scenario in which the two other parties can't make a majority on their own. Either would likely mean a speedier Afghanistan withdrawal, or at least pressure on Obama to lessen Germany's military obligation. And it would definitely mean more vocal criticism on climate policy, at a time when the US needs Germany to be at least a quiet part of the opposition, if not an ally.German-American relations have improved dramatically since the 2002 election, when Gerhard Schr\u00f6der used Bush-bashing as a campaign tactic. And despite steady opposition to the US on security and climate policy, Obama remains a personally popular figure among the German public.But for that very reason, the post-election environment in Germany is one ripe for the politician savvy enough to take on American foreign policy without pushing too hard against Obama himself \u2013 indeed, his charisma may be the only reason it hasn't happened yet. Nevertheless, Obama probably wasn't speaking off the cuff when, earlier this summer, he told a press conference that he'd like to see Merkel continue as Germany's chancellor.He knows he needs the status quo in German foreign policy to give him international breathing room. The only problem is, come 28 September, even the status quo means change.", "tags": ["Germany", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Climate change", "Afghanistan", "Environment", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany turns away from America | Clay Risen"},{"date": "2009-09-25T23:06:07Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Whether at home or abroad, the British political class dislikes coalitions. \"Set Angela free,\" the Economist implored German voters last week. \"Unleash Merkel,\" chorused the Times yesterday. There are two main problems with this British wish for Germany to experience the smack of firm government under Angela Merkel. The first is that every plausible outcome of tomorrow's German general election will produce a coalition of some sort \u2013 with all the compromises and postponements of difficult choices which this involves. The second is that during the campaign the German electorate has shown very little sign of wanting to reject the \"grand coalition\" between the centre-right CDU and the centre-left SPD over which Mrs Merkel has presided for the past four years.Ideological partisans reflexively assume that crisply defined government in their own image is or ought to be the norm. The trouble is that partisan government prospers more easily under unfair electoral systems like Britain's first-past-the-post system \u2013 and even better without any elections at all \u2013 than it does under fairer ones like Germany's checked and balanced proportional system. If the polls in Germany are even approximately reliable this time, no party in the next Bundestag is likely to have much more than a third of the electorate's support. According to yesterday's Stern-Forsa poll, the CDU-CSU is on 33% and the SPD on 25%, with the liberal FDP 14%, the Left 12% and the Greens 10%. A coalition government is therefore all but inevitable. The only questions are which coalition it should be and whether it is strong enough to govern effectively.As the poll figures show, there seems to be no majority in Germany for a coalition of either the left or the right. Perhaps tomorrow's voting will spring a surprise. But the logical conclusion from the 2009 election campaign is that Germans have been reasonably happy with the grand coalition of the centre parties and would like it to continue, almost certainly under the popular and consensual Mrs Merkel. Who, least of all in this more unsettled country, is to say they are wrong? These have been difficult times for all industrial economies. A coalition which balances the CDU's historic commitment to the social market with the SPD's jobs and social justice concerns during such upheaval makes more sense than some of the alternatives.British observers may sneer. But maybe we should be more humble. Part of what is wrong with our politics is our unfair electoral system. With a fairer system \u2013 and perhaps even without one \u2013 we too may one day face the need for coalition government. In such circumstances, a peacetime British grand coalition might not be as unthinkable as it seems right now.", "tags": ["Germany", "European elections", "Angela Merkel", "Proportional representation", "Politics", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Grand bargain"},{"date": "2009-09-28T23:05:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday 30 September 2009In the article below analysing the German election result we noted that the CDU-CSU parnership gained 33.8% of the vote, but went astray in saying this compared with 40.8% of the vote four years ago. In the 2005 election this pairing won 35.2%. There have been four general elections in the elite group of the world's most powerful economies since the global financial crisis first erupted. Two of them, in the US and Japan, have produced decisive moves to the left in favour of change. The two others, in Canada and the weekend federal election in Germany, have produced much less radical outcomes, keeping competent centre-right governments in power.The most important feature of the German election result is that Angela Merkel's CDU-CSU has been returned to office in a new coalition with the liberal FDP. But the most striking aspect of Sunday's poll is that the two previously dominant parties have been cut down to size. Four years ago, the CDU-CSU took 40.8% of the vote and was forced into a centrist \"grand\" coalition with the centre-left SPD. This time, Mrs Merkel's vote fell to 33.8%. She has been helped in retaining power by the rise in the FDP vote, which went from 9.8% in 2005 to 14.6% today. This was the liberals' year. Their success means a narrow majority for tax cuts and renewed public service reforms, and for nuclear power; whether the new coalition will be able to put either policy into practice will be the key domestic test for Germany.Much of that will depend on what happens to the now seriously weakened and divided German left. It is 11 years since the SPD ousted Helmut Kohl and formed a majority coalition with the Greens. Now, however, the SPD's vote has hit its lowest-ever mark of 23% and the CDU-FDP coalition is back. (By coincidence, a ComRes poll in yesterday's Independent showed Labour on 23% in this country too; times are tough for social democrats in many parts of Europe.) The strength of the Left party, which polled 12% and gets its most concentrated support in the old East Germany, is a challenge to which the SPD has failed to respond.All in all, however, the two big parties which have headed every German government since the second world war are now down to less than 57% of the vote. All the minor parties polled strongly and increased their shares. For the first time in modern Germany, all the parties in the new Bundestag have polled more than 10% but less than 40%. Multi-party politics has never been more deeply entrenched in Germany than it is now. Germans have nevertheless rewarded Mrs Merkel for steering a coalition with the SPD through turbulent economic times, without presiding over economic disaster or abandoning popular social programmes. Germans have not voted for radical change. They have given a vote of confidence to their tried and tested social market model, but in a very different way from before.\u2022 This article was amended on 1 October 2009. The original said that the FDP took only 4.7% of the vote in 2005. It also said that the 2009 election result cut the two major parties down to size in an unprecedented way. These errors have been corrected.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Back to party politics"},{"date": "2009-09-25T15:30:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It was the most excruciating moment in German-Russian relations. Asked what he thought of Vladimir Putin, given Russia's alarming slide on press freedom, human rights and many other matters, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der came up with a memorable phrase. Putin, Schr\u00f6der said, was \"a lupenrein democrat\" \u2013 a word that translates as flawless or immaculate.Given Russia's second brutal entry into Chechnya, Putin's decision in 2004 to abolish gubernatorial elections, and the squeeze on Russia's opposition, Schr\u00f6der's comment was embarrassing and ridiculous. During his time as chancellor, Schr\u00f6der cultivated what came to be known as a M\u00e4nnerfreundschaft: a close male buddy relationship in which the two leaders \u2013 Putin's German is fluent from his spy days in Dresden \u2014 used the backslapping \"Du\" form.Under Schr\u00f6der, little was said on Russia's dismal human rights record. And Putin's belief that he could buy up Europe's political elite was depressingly proved correct when, weeks after leaving office in late 2005, the ex-chancellor took a big-paying job as supervisory chairman on the Nord Stream project. The German-Russian pipeline \u2013 which will see Russian gas transported under the Baltic Sea, avoiding Poland \u2013 predictably enrages and irritates Germany's eastern EU neighbours, as well as Sweden.An interesting question ahead of Sunday's general election is how much Germany's Russia policy has changed under chancellor Angela Merkel. At first it appeared Merkel would take a more critical tone in her dealings with Putin. Merkel, of course, grew up in communist East Germany, a Soviet client state. She warily understands the KGB, Putin's old employer. An outstanding student, she won prizes for her Russian. (During an early teenage trip to Moscow, she returned to her rustic pastor family home with the Beatles' Yellow Submarine.)During her first visit to Russia as chancellor, in January 2006, Merkel made a point of meeting human rights activists \u2013 an apparent break with the sleazy Schr\u00f6der era. She also promised to visit Warsaw (though she never actually got there) in an attempt to assuage the unhappy Poles and Baltic states over Nord Stream. And though I can't vouch for their private conversations, it seems unlikely that Volodya and Angie use the \"Du\" form with each other.In reality, however, Germany's Russian policy under Merkel hasn't changed \u2014 and is simply a more sober form of Schr\u00f6derism. This isn't surprising. Schr\u00f6der's former chief of staff, Franz-Walter Steinmeier, the architect of Schr\u00f6der's pro-Russian foreign policy, has spent the past four years sitting in Germany's grand coalition government as Merkel's foreign minister. A fierce opponent of all attempts to \"isolate\" Russia, Steinmeier is now her rival for the chancellorship.Germany's pro-Russian business lobbies remain as strong as ever. And while there are differences in emphasis between Merkel's Christian Democrats and Steinmeier's Social Democrats on Russia, both agree that Germany needs Russia's energy. Gazprom even sponsors a German football team, Schalke 04. (The political scientist Jochen Franzke dubs the SPD attitude as \"Keep quiet and gas\". The CDU attitude, he says, is \"Talk but gas\".)As Alexander Rahr, the programme director of the German Council on Foreign Relations, points out, Merkel is pursuing the same Russia policy with Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev as Schr\u00f6der did with Putin, and as her political mentor Helmut Kohl did with Boris Yeltsin.Summed up, it goes like this: Germany is Russia's closest ally inside Europe. Berlin remains a pragmatic advocate for Russia within the EU and Nato \u2013 to the point of defending Moscow from attacks by the new EU members of eastern Europe.There are, of course, sound reasons for this: Germany is Russia's biggest export and trading partner. Germany is also the biggest EU customer for Russian oil and gas. Three million Russians, meanwhile, most of them of Jewish heritage, now live in Germany, forming the second largest non-German population after the Turks. Germany has an embassy and four consulates in Russia, as well more than 300 NGOs actively involved in work with Moscow.According to Rahr, there is a historical explanation for Germany's Sonderverh\u00e4ltnis, or special relationship, with Russia, which appears to have survived two devastating world wars. (Russia puts its dead from the last one at 27 million. The fact that Germany isn't a geopolitical rival to Russia, like the US, may also help.)\"Germany has a special relationship with Russia over centuries, going back not just to Bismarck, but to the Russian kings. We have closer links than the French, the Swiss, or the Austrians, and the Poles and the Swedes,\" Rahr says. \"Education and German universities are less critical of Russian history, more interested in the allure of Russia, and more understanding of Russia's role in Europe than in other countries,\" he adds.Over the past two years Merkel has demonstrated that her politics are every bit as pro-Russian as Schr\u00f6der's. She has consolidated several of the deals begun by the Schr\u00f6der administration. She is pressing ahead with Nord Stream. Merkel is also firmly opposed to extending Nato membership to Ukraine or Georgia \u2013 a red line for the Kremlin, which now says it is entitled to a zone of influence in its near abroad. Merkel has also recently indicated that she is not averse to Gazprom investing in Germany.She still talks about human rights, of course. When Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev visited Germany over the summer, Merkel called for an investigation into the murder of the activist Natalia Estemirova, who was abducted in July from her home in Chechnya's Grozny and shot.Merkel may not be buddies with Medvedev. But she clearly prefers dealing with him to meeting Putin. As everyone in Russia knows, however, Medvedev is not actually the man in charge.", "tags": ["Germany", "Russia", "Angela Merkel", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Gas", "International trade", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany and Russia: likely bedfellows | Luke Harding"},{"date": "2009-09-24T11:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Has Germany taken Prozac? On Sunday, voters will decide who'll be in the next government, yet everything seems so different from four years ago. The mood around the last general parliamentary election seemed feverish by hindsight \u2013 a vote that would decide the future destiny of Germany, a Schicksalswahl. Which government would at last have the strength to modernise our struggling social and welfare systems, adapt to the ageing population, create jobs? Then, there were more than 5 million people unemployed, the mood was dire, consumer spending low, the success of the country's big firms mainly based on exports.The coalition government under former chancellor Gerhard Schr\u00f6der (Social Democrats) and his foreign secretary, Joschka Fischer (Green party), seemed so out of their depth after having tried to adopt Tony Blair's New Labour reforms to a quite different German labour market system. Even traditional left-leaning voters considered voting for the other side \u2013 Angela Merkel and her conservative CDU. The Merkel of 2005 seemed to be a classic market liberal, demanding more freedom for big firms, lower taxes for companies and less regulation for financial businesses. She had promised to simplify Germany's convoluted tax system and she seemed to have big plans for the bureaucratic and expensive healthcare system. When she became chancellor, people compared her to Margaret Thatcher, the Iron Lady.Four years on, we are in the middle of the biggest financial and economic crisis yet the mood is completely different. The election is surrounded by a certain boredom, with people distracting themselves by keeping the economy going, ie shopping. Consumer spending remains defiantly high, and while the unemployment figures don't look too bad, 3.5 million people are without jobs. For the next year the Nuremberg-based labour institute IAB forecasts 4.1 million unemployed, fewer than 2005. The German system of short-time-work, Kurzarbeit, where workers work fewer hours and their wages are subsidised by the government-run Bundesagentur f\u00fcr Arbeit, seems to be paying off. It's designed to enable companies to keep their workforce even in hard times, so when the economy picks up, they don't waste time looking for qualified staff. It has been extended to the end of the year, well after the election. That's also a reason why unemployment figures remain comparatively low.Also, forecasts of growth rates look better than expected. The Institute for Economic Research recently said the economy would grow modestly at 1.5% next year. It's less than before the crisis, but still a sign that Germany will recover from the crisis more quickly than expected. It comes with a big price tag for the taxpayer though.Due to the crisis, the country has moved more towards the left, illustrated by the incredible success of the Left party (the former East German communists) \u2013 and Merkel has moved with it. The price for the calm is high \u2013 the government has spent hundreds of billions of euros in investment programmes to battle the crisis. It leaves Germany with a record public debt. And nobody compares Merkel with Thatcher any more.What an irony: a CDU chancellor with a natural distrust for state power has introduced more state power: she rescued banks, she rescued companies. In time for the election, Merkel's coalition also saved the struggling car-maker Opel by striking a deal with the Canadian-Austrian manufacturer Magna, in which Russia plays a big role. The deal is supported by a Russian state-owned bank, Sberbank. In effect, she has given taxpayers' money to help Russia's prime minister, Vladimir Putin, buy Opel \u2013 \u20ac4.5bn are supposed to go into the deal. According to news magazine Der Spiegel, she has assured Russian president Dmitry Medvedev the help, to get investment for a dying shipbuilding company at the Baltic Sea coast, near Merkel's constituency.The government has also invented another highly expensive, highly questionable programme in the scrappage scheme, designed to keep the dying car industry going. It was highly popular \u2013 and supported an old-fashioned, polluting car industry because there were hardly any incentives to buy green technology. At the recent car fair in Frankfurt, Germany's car industry was massively lagging behind in building electric cars.The scrappage scheme worked like this: You got \u20ac2,500 if you scrapped your old, at least nine years old, car, and bought any new one. The government invested \u20ac5bn but the money ran out three weeks ago. In August alone, 280,000 new cars have been registered.There are big posters in various public places in Berlin, \"We're voting for the chancellor\", beside a picture of Merkel with a beaming smile, brimming with confidence, Merkel remains chancellor, it seems to say, what ever happens. It feels almost smug. She knows the most likely coalition is a continuation of the grand coalition, under her leadership.", "tags": ["Germany", "Angela Merkel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Business as usual in Germany | Sabine Rennefanz"},{"date": "2009-09-23T16:00:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germans like to complain that this is the most boring election they've ever held. Perhaps they are still dazzled by the American election last year; perhaps they expect similar fireworks in the weeks before the Big Day.Maybe they forget that they live under a multiparty parliamentary system, where the excitement only begins when the polls close. Put that way, this election could end up a turning point \u2013 especially for German-American relations.Here's the good news: if, as expected, the election renews the coalition's mandate, Germany won't be pulling out of Afghanistan any time soon. Nor will the chancellor, Angela Merkel, or vice chancellor, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, immediately take a more confrontational approach on issues like climate change. But neither party prefers the existing arrangement, and most observers expect them to immediately begin positioning themselves for the next elections, which could come well before the mandated 2013 poll.Over time, that dynamic will push parts of the government toward a more critical stance vis-a-vis the US. As soon as the coalition is set, the SPD (Social Democratic party) will almost certainly try to win back voters on the left. The party has suffered from the rise of the Left party, a synthesis of disaffected western German SPD members and eastern German ex-communists.Consistently polling at about 10% (compared with the SPD at about 23%) and led by former SPD bigwig Oskar Lafontaine, on foreign policy the Left calls for a withdrawal from Nato, a curtailing of certain EU commitments and a reduction in military spending, among other goals.Steinmeier has ruled out a coalition with the Left on the national level, but there are many within the SPD who feel the only way back to fighting weight is to either win back the Left's voters or merge the two parties.Since the latter is unlikely with the SPD in a coalition government, there's a good possibility that the Social Democrats will start tacking left, particularly on issues like Afghanistan and climate change, where there exists the potential for significant disagreement between the Christian Democrats (CDU) and the SPD.In the short term, such positioning will remain just talk \u2013 though Steinmeier is and would remain foreign minister, Merkel and the chancellery are the real seat of foreign policymaking. But with the German public increasingly vocal in its opposition to the country's Afghanistan presence, there is little chance that the coalition would permit a new deployment of troops, as President Obama has consistently demanded, and a good chance that Steinmeier could push Merkel into setting an explicit timetable for withdrawal. Either option would be a substantial blow to America's AfPak mission.Climate policy is another place where Obama can expect turbulence, no matter what the outcome on Sunday. European officials at both the national and EU level have been increasingly critical of US inaction on climate change and its apparent lack of resolve in the run-up to December's Copenhagen summit, but Germany has been noticeably mum. That will likely change after the election, particularly as Steinmeier looks to steal support from the Left and the Greens.What if the coalition doesn't continue? The second most likely outcome, at least according to conventional wisdom, is a coalition between the CDU and the free-market Free Democrats (FDP). Both are strong supporters of the Afghanistan deployment and relatively lukewarm on climate policy, making this the best outcome for the US.But two other possible outcomes \u2013 three-way coalitions among the CDU, FDP, and Greens or the SPD, Left, and Greens \u2013 portend significant foreign policy changes. The Greens, who will likely get a vote total in the mid-teens, could easily become the kingmaker in a scenario in which the two other parties can't make a majority on their own. Either would likely mean a speedier Afghanistan withdrawal, or at least pressure on Obama to lessen Germany's military obligation. And it would definitely mean more vocal criticism on climate policy, at a time when the US needs Germany to be at least a quiet part of the opposition, if not an ally.German-American relations have improved dramatically since the 2002 election, when Gerhard Schr\u00f6der used Bush-bashing as a campaign tactic. And despite steady opposition to the US on security and climate policy, Obama remains a personally popular figure among the German public.But for that very reason, the post-election environment in Germany is one ripe for the politician savvy enough to take on American foreign policy without pushing too hard against Obama himself \u2013 indeed, his charisma may be the only reason it hasn't happened yet. Nevertheless, Obama probably wasn't speaking off the cuff when, earlier this summer, he told a press conference that he'd like to see Merkel continue as Germany's chancellor.He knows he needs the status quo in German foreign policy to give him international breathing room. The only problem is, come 28 September, even the status quo means change.", "tags": ["Germany", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Climate change", "Afghanistan", "Environment", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany turns away from America | Clay Risen"},{"date": "2009-09-21T12:15:09Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany had been taking a noticeably tougher line with Iran lately. In past years Berlin has been the most ambivalent about sanctions and has a high volume of trade with the Islamic Republic. But at the moment Angela Merkel is talking up the need for more sanctions if there is no movement from Iran on uranium enrichment. London and Berlin are coordinating ahead of the UN general assembly this week so that they will both deliver the same stern message.There may well be a connection between this stiffening of Berlin's line and a strange case playing out in the German courts. The defendant is a German-Iranian trader called Mohsen Vanaki who was charged in 2007 with brokering the export of dual-use equipment with nuclear weapons applications to Iran through front companies in the Gulf.The exports included high speed cameras, which according to the Washington-based Institute for Science and International Security (there is a concise account and analysis of the Vanaki case on its website) have several conventional military uses as well as a role in developing nuclear warheads. They can help analyse the hemispheric array of explosives in an implosion device, of the sort IAEA inspectors say the Iranians have \"probably tested\" according to the \"secret annexe\" to the agency's Iran report leaked last week. Vanaki was also charged with exporting radiation detectors built to withstand harsh conditions. The extraordinary element in his trial was the use by Vanaki's lawyers of the US National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) on Iran, which had been just published at the time of the trial, and which judged \"with high confidence\" that weaponisation stopped in 2003 for \"at least several years\". If there was no weapons programme, the lawyers argued in the Frankfurt am Main court, Vanaki could not be a proliferator. The judges agreed and dismissed the charges.However, the prosecutors appealed against the verdict and in March this year, the appeal was upheld by a federal court, on the basis of evidence presented by German intelligence, the BND, that there was an Iranian weapons programme underway at the time of Vanaki's exports. The retrial began earlier this month.Vanaki insists he is innocent, but whatever the outcome of the trial, the striking thing about it is the BND has publicly revealed it believes Iran is continuing work on weaponisation. I checked with the Germans and they agreed with that interpretation.The British have always been sceptical about the NIE suggestion that weaponisation stopped in 2003, and briefed against the US estimate. One official I talked to recently said: \"We think something stopped in 2003-2004, but it is another leap to say everything stopped back then.\" It is worth remembering that the NIE only assessed \"with moderate confidence\" that work on weapons had not restarted as of mid-2007. There is not necessarily a contradiction here. It will be interesting to see whether the NIE is overridden in the coming months if the impasse over Iranian enrichment continues. On the one hand, there will be a desire to turn up the pressure on Iran, but on the other hand, western governments will be reluctant to give what Israel might interpret as a green light for military action. In any case, any briefings on intelligence clearly intended to align with western policy of the day will be treated with a fair degree of scepticism after Iraq. Russia and China will make up their own minds.", "tags": ["Nuclear weapons", "Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "The Mohsen Vanaki case in Germany"},{"date": "2009-09-25T23:06:07Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Whether at home or abroad, the British political class dislikes coalitions. \"Set Angela free,\" the Economist implored German voters last week. \"Unleash Merkel,\" chorused the Times yesterday. There are two main problems with this British wish for Germany to experience the smack of firm government under Angela Merkel. The first is that every plausible outcome of tomorrow's German general election will produce a coalition of some sort \u2013 with all the compromises and postponements of difficult choices which this involves. The second is that during the campaign the German electorate has shown very little sign of wanting to reject the \"grand coalition\" between the centre-right CDU and the centre-left SPD over which Mrs Merkel has presided for the past four years.Ideological partisans reflexively assume that crisply defined government in their own image is or ought to be the norm. The trouble is that partisan government prospers more easily under unfair electoral systems like Britain's first-past-the-post system \u2013 and even better without any elections at all \u2013 than it does under fairer ones like Germany's checked and balanced proportional system. If the polls in Germany are even approximately reliable this time, no party in the next Bundestag is likely to have much more than a third of the electorate's support. According to yesterday's Stern-Forsa poll, the CDU-CSU is on 33% and the SPD on 25%, with the liberal FDP 14%, the Left 12% and the Greens 10%. A coalition government is therefore all but inevitable. The only questions are which coalition it should be and whether it is strong enough to govern effectively.As the poll figures show, there seems to be no majority in Germany for a coalition of either the left or the right. Perhaps tomorrow's voting will spring a surprise. But the logical conclusion from the 2009 election campaign is that Germans have been reasonably happy with the grand coalition of the centre parties and would like it to continue, almost certainly under the popular and consensual Mrs Merkel. Who, least of all in this more unsettled country, is to say they are wrong? These have been difficult times for all industrial economies. A coalition which balances the CDU's historic commitment to the social market with the SPD's jobs and social justice concerns during such upheaval makes more sense than some of the alternatives.British observers may sneer. But maybe we should be more humble. Part of what is wrong with our politics is our unfair electoral system. With a fairer system \u2013 and perhaps even without one \u2013 we too may one day face the need for coalition government. In such circumstances, a peacetime British grand coalition might not be as unthinkable as it seems right now.", "tags": ["Germany", "European elections", "Angela Merkel", "Proportional representation", "Politics", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Grand bargain"},{"date": "2009-09-28T23:05:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday 30 September 2009In the article below analysing the German election result we noted that the CDU-CSU parnership gained 33.8% of the vote, but went astray in saying this compared with 40.8% of the vote four years ago. In the 2005 election this pairing won 35.2%. There have been four general elections in the elite group of the world's most powerful economies since the global financial crisis first erupted. Two of them, in the US and Japan, have produced decisive moves to the left in favour of change. The two others, in Canada and the weekend federal election in Germany, have produced much less radical outcomes, keeping competent centre-right governments in power.The most important feature of the German election result is that Angela Merkel's CDU-CSU has been returned to office in a new coalition with the liberal FDP. But the most striking aspect of Sunday's poll is that the two previously dominant parties have been cut down to size. Four years ago, the CDU-CSU took 40.8% of the vote and was forced into a centrist \"grand\" coalition with the centre-left SPD. This time, Mrs Merkel's vote fell to 33.8%. She has been helped in retaining power by the rise in the FDP vote, which went from 9.8% in 2005 to 14.6% today. This was the liberals' year. Their success means a narrow majority for tax cuts and renewed public service reforms, and for nuclear power; whether the new coalition will be able to put either policy into practice will be the key domestic test for Germany.Much of that will depend on what happens to the now seriously weakened and divided German left. It is 11 years since the SPD ousted Helmut Kohl and formed a majority coalition with the Greens. Now, however, the SPD's vote has hit its lowest-ever mark of 23% and the CDU-FDP coalition is back. (By coincidence, a ComRes poll in yesterday's Independent showed Labour on 23% in this country too; times are tough for social democrats in many parts of Europe.) The strength of the Left party, which polled 12% and gets its most concentrated support in the old East Germany, is a challenge to which the SPD has failed to respond.All in all, however, the two big parties which have headed every German government since the second world war are now down to less than 57% of the vote. All the minor parties polled strongly and increased their shares. For the first time in modern Germany, all the parties in the new Bundestag have polled more than 10% but less than 40%. Multi-party politics has never been more deeply entrenched in Germany than it is now. Germans have nevertheless rewarded Mrs Merkel for steering a coalition with the SPD through turbulent economic times, without presiding over economic disaster or abandoning popular social programmes. Germans have not voted for radical change. They have given a vote of confidence to their tried and tested social market model, but in a very different way from before.\u2022 This article was amended on 1 October 2009. The original said that the FDP took only 4.7% of the vote in 2005. It also said that the 2009 election result cut the two major parties down to size in an unprecedented way. These errors have been corrected.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Back to party politics"},{"date": "2009-09-25T15:30:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It was the most excruciating moment in German-Russian relations. Asked what he thought of Vladimir Putin, given Russia's alarming slide on press freedom, human rights and many other matters, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der came up with a memorable phrase. Putin, Schr\u00f6der said, was \"a lupenrein democrat\" \u2013 a word that translates as flawless or immaculate.Given Russia's second brutal entry into Chechnya, Putin's decision in 2004 to abolish gubernatorial elections, and the squeeze on Russia's opposition, Schr\u00f6der's comment was embarrassing and ridiculous. During his time as chancellor, Schr\u00f6der cultivated what came to be known as a M\u00e4nnerfreundschaft: a close male buddy relationship in which the two leaders \u2013 Putin's German is fluent from his spy days in Dresden \u2014 used the backslapping \"Du\" form.Under Schr\u00f6der, little was said on Russia's dismal human rights record. And Putin's belief that he could buy up Europe's political elite was depressingly proved correct when, weeks after leaving office in late 2005, the ex-chancellor took a big-paying job as supervisory chairman on the Nord Stream project. The German-Russian pipeline \u2013 which will see Russian gas transported under the Baltic Sea, avoiding Poland \u2013 predictably enrages and irritates Germany's eastern EU neighbours, as well as Sweden.An interesting question ahead of Sunday's general election is how much Germany's Russia policy has changed under chancellor Angela Merkel. At first it appeared Merkel would take a more critical tone in her dealings with Putin. Merkel, of course, grew up in communist East Germany, a Soviet client state. She warily understands the KGB, Putin's old employer. An outstanding student, she won prizes for her Russian. (During an early teenage trip to Moscow, she returned to her rustic pastor family home with the Beatles' Yellow Submarine.)During her first visit to Russia as chancellor, in January 2006, Merkel made a point of meeting human rights activists \u2013 an apparent break with the sleazy Schr\u00f6der era. She also promised to visit Warsaw (though she never actually got there) in an attempt to assuage the unhappy Poles and Baltic states over Nord Stream. And though I can't vouch for their private conversations, it seems unlikely that Volodya and Angie use the \"Du\" form with each other.In reality, however, Germany's Russian policy under Merkel hasn't changed \u2014 and is simply a more sober form of Schr\u00f6derism. This isn't surprising. Schr\u00f6der's former chief of staff, Franz-Walter Steinmeier, the architect of Schr\u00f6der's pro-Russian foreign policy, has spent the past four years sitting in Germany's grand coalition government as Merkel's foreign minister. A fierce opponent of all attempts to \"isolate\" Russia, Steinmeier is now her rival for the chancellorship.Germany's pro-Russian business lobbies remain as strong as ever. And while there are differences in emphasis between Merkel's Christian Democrats and Steinmeier's Social Democrats on Russia, both agree that Germany needs Russia's energy. Gazprom even sponsors a German football team, Schalke 04. (The political scientist Jochen Franzke dubs the SPD attitude as \"Keep quiet and gas\". The CDU attitude, he says, is \"Talk but gas\".)As Alexander Rahr, the programme director of the German Council on Foreign Relations, points out, Merkel is pursuing the same Russia policy with Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev as Schr\u00f6der did with Putin, and as her political mentor Helmut Kohl did with Boris Yeltsin.Summed up, it goes like this: Germany is Russia's closest ally inside Europe. Berlin remains a pragmatic advocate for Russia within the EU and Nato \u2013 to the point of defending Moscow from attacks by the new EU members of eastern Europe.There are, of course, sound reasons for this: Germany is Russia's biggest export and trading partner. Germany is also the biggest EU customer for Russian oil and gas. Three million Russians, meanwhile, most of them of Jewish heritage, now live in Germany, forming the second largest non-German population after the Turks. Germany has an embassy and four consulates in Russia, as well more than 300 NGOs actively involved in work with Moscow.According to Rahr, there is a historical explanation for Germany's Sonderverh\u00e4ltnis, or special relationship, with Russia, which appears to have survived two devastating world wars. (Russia puts its dead from the last one at 27 million. The fact that Germany isn't a geopolitical rival to Russia, like the US, may also help.)\"Germany has a special relationship with Russia over centuries, going back not just to Bismarck, but to the Russian kings. We have closer links than the French, the Swiss, or the Austrians, and the Poles and the Swedes,\" Rahr says. \"Education and German universities are less critical of Russian history, more interested in the allure of Russia, and more understanding of Russia's role in Europe than in other countries,\" he adds.Over the past two years Merkel has demonstrated that her politics are every bit as pro-Russian as Schr\u00f6der's. She has consolidated several of the deals begun by the Schr\u00f6der administration. She is pressing ahead with Nord Stream. Merkel is also firmly opposed to extending Nato membership to Ukraine or Georgia \u2013 a red line for the Kremlin, which now says it is entitled to a zone of influence in its near abroad. Merkel has also recently indicated that she is not averse to Gazprom investing in Germany.She still talks about human rights, of course. When Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev visited Germany over the summer, Merkel called for an investigation into the murder of the activist Natalia Estemirova, who was abducted in July from her home in Chechnya's Grozny and shot.Merkel may not be buddies with Medvedev. But she clearly prefers dealing with him to meeting Putin. As everyone in Russia knows, however, Medvedev is not actually the man in charge.", "tags": ["Germany", "Russia", "Angela Merkel", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Gas", "International trade", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany and Russia: likely bedfellows | Luke Harding"},{"date": "2009-09-24T11:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Has Germany taken Prozac? On Sunday, voters will decide who'll be in the next government, yet everything seems so different from four years ago. The mood around the last general parliamentary election seemed feverish by hindsight \u2013 a vote that would decide the future destiny of Germany, a Schicksalswahl. Which government would at last have the strength to modernise our struggling social and welfare systems, adapt to the ageing population, create jobs? Then, there were more than 5 million people unemployed, the mood was dire, consumer spending low, the success of the country's big firms mainly based on exports.The coalition government under former chancellor Gerhard Schr\u00f6der (Social Democrats) and his foreign secretary, Joschka Fischer (Green party), seemed so out of their depth after having tried to adopt Tony Blair's New Labour reforms to a quite different German labour market system. Even traditional left-leaning voters considered voting for the other side \u2013 Angela Merkel and her conservative CDU. The Merkel of 2005 seemed to be a classic market liberal, demanding more freedom for big firms, lower taxes for companies and less regulation for financial businesses. She had promised to simplify Germany's convoluted tax system and she seemed to have big plans for the bureaucratic and expensive healthcare system. When she became chancellor, people compared her to Margaret Thatcher, the Iron Lady.Four years on, we are in the middle of the biggest financial and economic crisis yet the mood is completely different. The election is surrounded by a certain boredom, with people distracting themselves by keeping the economy going, ie shopping. Consumer spending remains defiantly high, and while the unemployment figures don't look too bad, 3.5 million people are without jobs. For the next year the Nuremberg-based labour institute IAB forecasts 4.1 million unemployed, fewer than 2005. The German system of short-time-work, Kurzarbeit, where workers work fewer hours and their wages are subsidised by the government-run Bundesagentur f\u00fcr Arbeit, seems to be paying off. It's designed to enable companies to keep their workforce even in hard times, so when the economy picks up, they don't waste time looking for qualified staff. It has been extended to the end of the year, well after the election. That's also a reason why unemployment figures remain comparatively low.Also, forecasts of growth rates look better than expected. The Institute for Economic Research recently said the economy would grow modestly at 1.5% next year. It's less than before the crisis, but still a sign that Germany will recover from the crisis more quickly than expected. It comes with a big price tag for the taxpayer though.Due to the crisis, the country has moved more towards the left, illustrated by the incredible success of the Left party (the former East German communists) \u2013 and Merkel has moved with it. The price for the calm is high \u2013 the government has spent hundreds of billions of euros in investment programmes to battle the crisis. It leaves Germany with a record public debt. And nobody compares Merkel with Thatcher any more.What an irony: a CDU chancellor with a natural distrust for state power has introduced more state power: she rescued banks, she rescued companies. In time for the election, Merkel's coalition also saved the struggling car-maker Opel by striking a deal with the Canadian-Austrian manufacturer Magna, in which Russia plays a big role. The deal is supported by a Russian state-owned bank, Sberbank. In effect, she has given taxpayers' money to help Russia's prime minister, Vladimir Putin, buy Opel \u2013 \u20ac4.5bn are supposed to go into the deal. According to news magazine Der Spiegel, she has assured Russian president Dmitry Medvedev the help, to get investment for a dying shipbuilding company at the Baltic Sea coast, near Merkel's constituency.The government has also invented another highly expensive, highly questionable programme in the scrappage scheme, designed to keep the dying car industry going. It was highly popular \u2013 and supported an old-fashioned, polluting car industry because there were hardly any incentives to buy green technology. At the recent car fair in Frankfurt, Germany's car industry was massively lagging behind in building electric cars.The scrappage scheme worked like this: You got \u20ac2,500 if you scrapped your old, at least nine years old, car, and bought any new one. The government invested \u20ac5bn but the money ran out three weeks ago. In August alone, 280,000 new cars have been registered.There are big posters in various public places in Berlin, \"We're voting for the chancellor\", beside a picture of Merkel with a beaming smile, brimming with confidence, Merkel remains chancellor, it seems to say, what ever happens. It feels almost smug. She knows the most likely coalition is a continuation of the grand coalition, under her leadership.", "tags": ["Germany", "Angela Merkel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Business as usual in Germany | Sabine Rennefanz"},{"date": "2009-09-23T16:00:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germans like to complain that this is the most boring election they've ever held. Perhaps they are still dazzled by the American election last year; perhaps they expect similar fireworks in the weeks before the Big Day.Maybe they forget that they live under a multiparty parliamentary system, where the excitement only begins when the polls close. Put that way, this election could end up a turning point \u2013 especially for German-American relations.Here's the good news: if, as expected, the election renews the coalition's mandate, Germany won't be pulling out of Afghanistan any time soon. Nor will the chancellor, Angela Merkel, or vice chancellor, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, immediately take a more confrontational approach on issues like climate change. But neither party prefers the existing arrangement, and most observers expect them to immediately begin positioning themselves for the next elections, which could come well before the mandated 2013 poll.Over time, that dynamic will push parts of the government toward a more critical stance vis-a-vis the US. As soon as the coalition is set, the SPD (Social Democratic party) will almost certainly try to win back voters on the left. The party has suffered from the rise of the Left party, a synthesis of disaffected western German SPD members and eastern German ex-communists.Consistently polling at about 10% (compared with the SPD at about 23%) and led by former SPD bigwig Oskar Lafontaine, on foreign policy the Left calls for a withdrawal from Nato, a curtailing of certain EU commitments and a reduction in military spending, among other goals.Steinmeier has ruled out a coalition with the Left on the national level, but there are many within the SPD who feel the only way back to fighting weight is to either win back the Left's voters or merge the two parties.Since the latter is unlikely with the SPD in a coalition government, there's a good possibility that the Social Democrats will start tacking left, particularly on issues like Afghanistan and climate change, where there exists the potential for significant disagreement between the Christian Democrats (CDU) and the SPD.In the short term, such positioning will remain just talk \u2013 though Steinmeier is and would remain foreign minister, Merkel and the chancellery are the real seat of foreign policymaking. But with the German public increasingly vocal in its opposition to the country's Afghanistan presence, there is little chance that the coalition would permit a new deployment of troops, as President Obama has consistently demanded, and a good chance that Steinmeier could push Merkel into setting an explicit timetable for withdrawal. Either option would be a substantial blow to America's AfPak mission.Climate policy is another place where Obama can expect turbulence, no matter what the outcome on Sunday. European officials at both the national and EU level have been increasingly critical of US inaction on climate change and its apparent lack of resolve in the run-up to December's Copenhagen summit, but Germany has been noticeably mum. That will likely change after the election, particularly as Steinmeier looks to steal support from the Left and the Greens.What if the coalition doesn't continue? The second most likely outcome, at least according to conventional wisdom, is a coalition between the CDU and the free-market Free Democrats (FDP). Both are strong supporters of the Afghanistan deployment and relatively lukewarm on climate policy, making this the best outcome for the US.But two other possible outcomes \u2013 three-way coalitions among the CDU, FDP, and Greens or the SPD, Left, and Greens \u2013 portend significant foreign policy changes. The Greens, who will likely get a vote total in the mid-teens, could easily become the kingmaker in a scenario in which the two other parties can't make a majority on their own. Either would likely mean a speedier Afghanistan withdrawal, or at least pressure on Obama to lessen Germany's military obligation. And it would definitely mean more vocal criticism on climate policy, at a time when the US needs Germany to be at least a quiet part of the opposition, if not an ally.German-American relations have improved dramatically since the 2002 election, when Gerhard Schr\u00f6der used Bush-bashing as a campaign tactic. And despite steady opposition to the US on security and climate policy, Obama remains a personally popular figure among the German public.But for that very reason, the post-election environment in Germany is one ripe for the politician savvy enough to take on American foreign policy without pushing too hard against Obama himself \u2013 indeed, his charisma may be the only reason it hasn't happened yet. Nevertheless, Obama probably wasn't speaking off the cuff when, earlier this summer, he told a press conference that he'd like to see Merkel continue as Germany's chancellor.He knows he needs the status quo in German foreign policy to give him international breathing room. The only problem is, come 28 September, even the status quo means change.", "tags": ["Germany", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Climate change", "Afghanistan", "Environment", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany turns away from America | Clay Risen"},{"date": "2009-09-21T12:15:09Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany had been taking a noticeably tougher line with Iran lately. In past years Berlin has been the most ambivalent about sanctions and has a high volume of trade with the Islamic Republic. But at the moment Angela Merkel is talking up the need for more sanctions if there is no movement from Iran on uranium enrichment. London and Berlin are coordinating ahead of the UN general assembly this week so that they will both deliver the same stern message.There may well be a connection between this stiffening of Berlin's line and a strange case playing out in the German courts. The defendant is a German-Iranian trader called Mohsen Vanaki who was charged in 2007 with brokering the export of dual-use equipment with nuclear weapons applications to Iran through front companies in the Gulf.The exports included high speed cameras, which according to the Washington-based Institute for Science and International Security (there is a concise account and analysis of the Vanaki case on its website) have several conventional military uses as well as a role in developing nuclear warheads. They can help analyse the hemispheric array of explosives in an implosion device, of the sort IAEA inspectors say the Iranians have \"probably tested\" according to the \"secret annexe\" to the agency's Iran report leaked last week. Vanaki was also charged with exporting radiation detectors built to withstand harsh conditions. The extraordinary element in his trial was the use by Vanaki's lawyers of the US National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) on Iran, which had been just published at the time of the trial, and which judged \"with high confidence\" that weaponisation stopped in 2003 for \"at least several years\". If there was no weapons programme, the lawyers argued in the Frankfurt am Main court, Vanaki could not be a proliferator. The judges agreed and dismissed the charges.However, the prosecutors appealed against the verdict and in March this year, the appeal was upheld by a federal court, on the basis of evidence presented by German intelligence, the BND, that there was an Iranian weapons programme underway at the time of Vanaki's exports. The retrial began earlier this month.Vanaki insists he is innocent, but whatever the outcome of the trial, the striking thing about it is the BND has publicly revealed it believes Iran is continuing work on weaponisation. I checked with the Germans and they agreed with that interpretation.The British have always been sceptical about the NIE suggestion that weaponisation stopped in 2003, and briefed against the US estimate. One official I talked to recently said: \"We think something stopped in 2003-2004, but it is another leap to say everything stopped back then.\" It is worth remembering that the NIE only assessed \"with moderate confidence\" that work on weapons had not restarted as of mid-2007. There is not necessarily a contradiction here. It will be interesting to see whether the NIE is overridden in the coming months if the impasse over Iranian enrichment continues. On the one hand, there will be a desire to turn up the pressure on Iran, but on the other hand, western governments will be reluctant to give what Israel might interpret as a green light for military action. In any case, any briefings on intelligence clearly intended to align with western policy of the day will be treated with a fair degree of scepticism after Iraq. Russia and China will make up their own minds.", "tags": ["Nuclear weapons", "Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "The Mohsen Vanaki case in Germany"},{"date": "2009-09-09T14:50:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Finger pointing is the defence of the concerned and the cornered. So it reflects very poorly on Nato that allies are bickering with one another over an attack that killed an unknown number of Afghan civilians last week. Nato says up to 125 died when German forces ordered a strike on a hijacked Nato fuel tanker. The Germans initially said that the dead were all militants and argued that the tanker could have been used to attack Nato forces (Berlin has since admitted civilians may have been killed). The Afghan government says many of the dead were civilians and it lashed out at the Germans for being reckless. The French government has called the attack \"wrong\" and the US has criticised the Germans for waiting too long to determine whether civilians were among the dead.The allies need to take a deep breath. The last thing the Nato mission needs is more acrimony. Already, the allied publics think so poorly of the Afghan operation that the governments are coming under serious pressure to withdraw troops.Clearly, in most cases the death of civilians is not only tragic, it is also monumentally wrong. Nato has recently \u2013 and belatedly \u2013 recognised that it must reduce civilian casualties if it is to win the hearts and minds of ordinary Afghans. Only time and a proper investigation will tell what the German air traffic controllers, who called in the attack, knew, and when. The rest of the allies should recognise that if German troops indeed felt that the tankers were to be used in an imminent attack on Nato troops, they may have been right to order them bombed.The Germans owe it to the Afghans and the rest of Nato to explain their actions. Serious questions remain: the hijacked tankers were stuck in a river, so why were they a danger to Nato? The German military says its troops thought that only militants were present on the scene \u2013 an assessment that, the Germans say, was confirmed by an informant on the ground. But how could they been so sure given the number of people on the scene, and given that night-vision images (the attack happened at 2.30am) are far less clear than daytime imagery?The US has, in my mind, erred too, in inviting journalists along on a mission to assess the impact of the bombing, and allowing them to sit in on closed-door meetings between US and German officials where the bombing was discussed. The commander of US and Nato forces in Afghanistan, General Stanley McChrystal, is fighting two wars: besides the one in Afghanistan, he is also trying to keep the increasingly nervous governments at home from withdrawing troops. It is not obvious how he hoped to strengthen German support for the mission by inviting the media to lambast the German troops before a proper investigation had been completed.The tanker-bombing incident has completely obscured an important new reality. In recent months, the allies have narrowed their differences over the course of action for Afghanistan, and Gen McChrystal's new strategy has at last given Nato governments some grounds to hope for a turnaround. Among other things, the strategy puts clear emphasis on minimising civilian casualties. The recent strike is a tragic and important deviation from the strategy. It should be treated as such, investigated and closed. Instead of arguing, the allied governments need to focus on letting the new strategy work, and to give commanders on the ground time to prove it successful.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa", "Nato", "Defence policy"], "title": "Germany owes Afghanistan an explanation | Tomas Valasek"},{"date": "2009-09-25T23:06:07Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Whether at home or abroad, the British political class dislikes coalitions. \"Set Angela free,\" the Economist implored German voters last week. \"Unleash Merkel,\" chorused the Times yesterday. There are two main problems with this British wish for Germany to experience the smack of firm government under Angela Merkel. The first is that every plausible outcome of tomorrow's German general election will produce a coalition of some sort \u2013 with all the compromises and postponements of difficult choices which this involves. The second is that during the campaign the German electorate has shown very little sign of wanting to reject the \"grand coalition\" between the centre-right CDU and the centre-left SPD over which Mrs Merkel has presided for the past four years.Ideological partisans reflexively assume that crisply defined government in their own image is or ought to be the norm. The trouble is that partisan government prospers more easily under unfair electoral systems like Britain's first-past-the-post system \u2013 and even better without any elections at all \u2013 than it does under fairer ones like Germany's checked and balanced proportional system. If the polls in Germany are even approximately reliable this time, no party in the next Bundestag is likely to have much more than a third of the electorate's support. According to yesterday's Stern-Forsa poll, the CDU-CSU is on 33% and the SPD on 25%, with the liberal FDP 14%, the Left 12% and the Greens 10%. A coalition government is therefore all but inevitable. The only questions are which coalition it should be and whether it is strong enough to govern effectively.As the poll figures show, there seems to be no majority in Germany for a coalition of either the left or the right. Perhaps tomorrow's voting will spring a surprise. But the logical conclusion from the 2009 election campaign is that Germans have been reasonably happy with the grand coalition of the centre parties and would like it to continue, almost certainly under the popular and consensual Mrs Merkel. Who, least of all in this more unsettled country, is to say they are wrong? These have been difficult times for all industrial economies. A coalition which balances the CDU's historic commitment to the social market with the SPD's jobs and social justice concerns during such upheaval makes more sense than some of the alternatives.British observers may sneer. But maybe we should be more humble. Part of what is wrong with our politics is our unfair electoral system. With a fairer system \u2013 and perhaps even without one \u2013 we too may one day face the need for coalition government. In such circumstances, a peacetime British grand coalition might not be as unthinkable as it seems right now.", "tags": ["Germany", "European elections", "Angela Merkel", "Proportional representation", "Politics", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Grand bargain"},{"date": "2009-09-28T23:05:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday 30 September 2009In the article below analysing the German election result we noted that the CDU-CSU parnership gained 33.8% of the vote, but went astray in saying this compared with 40.8% of the vote four years ago. In the 2005 election this pairing won 35.2%. There have been four general elections in the elite group of the world's most powerful economies since the global financial crisis first erupted. Two of them, in the US and Japan, have produced decisive moves to the left in favour of change. The two others, in Canada and the weekend federal election in Germany, have produced much less radical outcomes, keeping competent centre-right governments in power.The most important feature of the German election result is that Angela Merkel's CDU-CSU has been returned to office in a new coalition with the liberal FDP. But the most striking aspect of Sunday's poll is that the two previously dominant parties have been cut down to size. Four years ago, the CDU-CSU took 40.8% of the vote and was forced into a centrist \"grand\" coalition with the centre-left SPD. This time, Mrs Merkel's vote fell to 33.8%. She has been helped in retaining power by the rise in the FDP vote, which went from 9.8% in 2005 to 14.6% today. This was the liberals' year. Their success means a narrow majority for tax cuts and renewed public service reforms, and for nuclear power; whether the new coalition will be able to put either policy into practice will be the key domestic test for Germany.Much of that will depend on what happens to the now seriously weakened and divided German left. It is 11 years since the SPD ousted Helmut Kohl and formed a majority coalition with the Greens. Now, however, the SPD's vote has hit its lowest-ever mark of 23% and the CDU-FDP coalition is back. (By coincidence, a ComRes poll in yesterday's Independent showed Labour on 23% in this country too; times are tough for social democrats in many parts of Europe.) The strength of the Left party, which polled 12% and gets its most concentrated support in the old East Germany, is a challenge to which the SPD has failed to respond.All in all, however, the two big parties which have headed every German government since the second world war are now down to less than 57% of the vote. All the minor parties polled strongly and increased their shares. For the first time in modern Germany, all the parties in the new Bundestag have polled more than 10% but less than 40%. Multi-party politics has never been more deeply entrenched in Germany than it is now. Germans have nevertheless rewarded Mrs Merkel for steering a coalition with the SPD through turbulent economic times, without presiding over economic disaster or abandoning popular social programmes. Germans have not voted for radical change. They have given a vote of confidence to their tried and tested social market model, but in a very different way from before.\u2022 This article was amended on 1 October 2009. The original said that the FDP took only 4.7% of the vote in 2005. It also said that the 2009 election result cut the two major parties down to size in an unprecedented way. These errors have been corrected.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: Back to party politics"},{"date": "2009-09-25T15:30:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It was the most excruciating moment in German-Russian relations. Asked what he thought of Vladimir Putin, given Russia's alarming slide on press freedom, human rights and many other matters, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der came up with a memorable phrase. Putin, Schr\u00f6der said, was \"a lupenrein democrat\" \u2013 a word that translates as flawless or immaculate.Given Russia's second brutal entry into Chechnya, Putin's decision in 2004 to abolish gubernatorial elections, and the squeeze on Russia's opposition, Schr\u00f6der's comment was embarrassing and ridiculous. During his time as chancellor, Schr\u00f6der cultivated what came to be known as a M\u00e4nnerfreundschaft: a close male buddy relationship in which the two leaders \u2013 Putin's German is fluent from his spy days in Dresden \u2014 used the backslapping \"Du\" form.Under Schr\u00f6der, little was said on Russia's dismal human rights record. And Putin's belief that he could buy up Europe's political elite was depressingly proved correct when, weeks after leaving office in late 2005, the ex-chancellor took a big-paying job as supervisory chairman on the Nord Stream project. The German-Russian pipeline \u2013 which will see Russian gas transported under the Baltic Sea, avoiding Poland \u2013 predictably enrages and irritates Germany's eastern EU neighbours, as well as Sweden.An interesting question ahead of Sunday's general election is how much Germany's Russia policy has changed under chancellor Angela Merkel. At first it appeared Merkel would take a more critical tone in her dealings with Putin. Merkel, of course, grew up in communist East Germany, a Soviet client state. She warily understands the KGB, Putin's old employer. An outstanding student, she won prizes for her Russian. (During an early teenage trip to Moscow, she returned to her rustic pastor family home with the Beatles' Yellow Submarine.)During her first visit to Russia as chancellor, in January 2006, Merkel made a point of meeting human rights activists \u2013 an apparent break with the sleazy Schr\u00f6der era. She also promised to visit Warsaw (though she never actually got there) in an attempt to assuage the unhappy Poles and Baltic states over Nord Stream. And though I can't vouch for their private conversations, it seems unlikely that Volodya and Angie use the \"Du\" form with each other.In reality, however, Germany's Russian policy under Merkel hasn't changed \u2014 and is simply a more sober form of Schr\u00f6derism. This isn't surprising. Schr\u00f6der's former chief of staff, Franz-Walter Steinmeier, the architect of Schr\u00f6der's pro-Russian foreign policy, has spent the past four years sitting in Germany's grand coalition government as Merkel's foreign minister. A fierce opponent of all attempts to \"isolate\" Russia, Steinmeier is now her rival for the chancellorship.Germany's pro-Russian business lobbies remain as strong as ever. And while there are differences in emphasis between Merkel's Christian Democrats and Steinmeier's Social Democrats on Russia, both agree that Germany needs Russia's energy. Gazprom even sponsors a German football team, Schalke 04. (The political scientist Jochen Franzke dubs the SPD attitude as \"Keep quiet and gas\". The CDU attitude, he says, is \"Talk but gas\".)As Alexander Rahr, the programme director of the German Council on Foreign Relations, points out, Merkel is pursuing the same Russia policy with Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev as Schr\u00f6der did with Putin, and as her political mentor Helmut Kohl did with Boris Yeltsin.Summed up, it goes like this: Germany is Russia's closest ally inside Europe. Berlin remains a pragmatic advocate for Russia within the EU and Nato \u2013 to the point of defending Moscow from attacks by the new EU members of eastern Europe.There are, of course, sound reasons for this: Germany is Russia's biggest export and trading partner. Germany is also the biggest EU customer for Russian oil and gas. Three million Russians, meanwhile, most of them of Jewish heritage, now live in Germany, forming the second largest non-German population after the Turks. Germany has an embassy and four consulates in Russia, as well more than 300 NGOs actively involved in work with Moscow.According to Rahr, there is a historical explanation for Germany's Sonderverh\u00e4ltnis, or special relationship, with Russia, which appears to have survived two devastating world wars. (Russia puts its dead from the last one at 27 million. The fact that Germany isn't a geopolitical rival to Russia, like the US, may also help.)\"Germany has a special relationship with Russia over centuries, going back not just to Bismarck, but to the Russian kings. We have closer links than the French, the Swiss, or the Austrians, and the Poles and the Swedes,\" Rahr says. \"Education and German universities are less critical of Russian history, more interested in the allure of Russia, and more understanding of Russia's role in Europe than in other countries,\" he adds.Over the past two years Merkel has demonstrated that her politics are every bit as pro-Russian as Schr\u00f6der's. She has consolidated several of the deals begun by the Schr\u00f6der administration. She is pressing ahead with Nord Stream. Merkel is also firmly opposed to extending Nato membership to Ukraine or Georgia \u2013 a red line for the Kremlin, which now says it is entitled to a zone of influence in its near abroad. Merkel has also recently indicated that she is not averse to Gazprom investing in Germany.She still talks about human rights, of course. When Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev visited Germany over the summer, Merkel called for an investigation into the murder of the activist Natalia Estemirova, who was abducted in July from her home in Chechnya's Grozny and shot.Merkel may not be buddies with Medvedev. But she clearly prefers dealing with him to meeting Putin. As everyone in Russia knows, however, Medvedev is not actually the man in charge.", "tags": ["Germany", "Russia", "Angela Merkel", "Vladimir Putin", "Dmitry Medvedev", "Gas", "International trade", "Business", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany and Russia: likely bedfellows | Luke Harding"},{"date": "2009-09-24T11:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Has Germany taken Prozac? On Sunday, voters will decide who'll be in the next government, yet everything seems so different from four years ago. The mood around the last general parliamentary election seemed feverish by hindsight \u2013 a vote that would decide the future destiny of Germany, a Schicksalswahl. Which government would at last have the strength to modernise our struggling social and welfare systems, adapt to the ageing population, create jobs? Then, there were more than 5 million people unemployed, the mood was dire, consumer spending low, the success of the country's big firms mainly based on exports.The coalition government under former chancellor Gerhard Schr\u00f6der (Social Democrats) and his foreign secretary, Joschka Fischer (Green party), seemed so out of their depth after having tried to adopt Tony Blair's New Labour reforms to a quite different German labour market system. Even traditional left-leaning voters considered voting for the other side \u2013 Angela Merkel and her conservative CDU. The Merkel of 2005 seemed to be a classic market liberal, demanding more freedom for big firms, lower taxes for companies and less regulation for financial businesses. She had promised to simplify Germany's convoluted tax system and she seemed to have big plans for the bureaucratic and expensive healthcare system. When she became chancellor, people compared her to Margaret Thatcher, the Iron Lady.Four years on, we are in the middle of the biggest financial and economic crisis yet the mood is completely different. The election is surrounded by a certain boredom, with people distracting themselves by keeping the economy going, ie shopping. Consumer spending remains defiantly high, and while the unemployment figures don't look too bad, 3.5 million people are without jobs. For the next year the Nuremberg-based labour institute IAB forecasts 4.1 million unemployed, fewer than 2005. The German system of short-time-work, Kurzarbeit, where workers work fewer hours and their wages are subsidised by the government-run Bundesagentur f\u00fcr Arbeit, seems to be paying off. It's designed to enable companies to keep their workforce even in hard times, so when the economy picks up, they don't waste time looking for qualified staff. It has been extended to the end of the year, well after the election. That's also a reason why unemployment figures remain comparatively low.Also, forecasts of growth rates look better than expected. The Institute for Economic Research recently said the economy would grow modestly at 1.5% next year. It's less than before the crisis, but still a sign that Germany will recover from the crisis more quickly than expected. It comes with a big price tag for the taxpayer though.Due to the crisis, the country has moved more towards the left, illustrated by the incredible success of the Left party (the former East German communists) \u2013 and Merkel has moved with it. The price for the calm is high \u2013 the government has spent hundreds of billions of euros in investment programmes to battle the crisis. It leaves Germany with a record public debt. And nobody compares Merkel with Thatcher any more.What an irony: a CDU chancellor with a natural distrust for state power has introduced more state power: she rescued banks, she rescued companies. In time for the election, Merkel's coalition also saved the struggling car-maker Opel by striking a deal with the Canadian-Austrian manufacturer Magna, in which Russia plays a big role. The deal is supported by a Russian state-owned bank, Sberbank. In effect, she has given taxpayers' money to help Russia's prime minister, Vladimir Putin, buy Opel \u2013 \u20ac4.5bn are supposed to go into the deal. According to news magazine Der Spiegel, she has assured Russian president Dmitry Medvedev the help, to get investment for a dying shipbuilding company at the Baltic Sea coast, near Merkel's constituency.The government has also invented another highly expensive, highly questionable programme in the scrappage scheme, designed to keep the dying car industry going. It was highly popular \u2013 and supported an old-fashioned, polluting car industry because there were hardly any incentives to buy green technology. At the recent car fair in Frankfurt, Germany's car industry was massively lagging behind in building electric cars.The scrappage scheme worked like this: You got \u20ac2,500 if you scrapped your old, at least nine years old, car, and bought any new one. The government invested \u20ac5bn but the money ran out three weeks ago. In August alone, 280,000 new cars have been registered.There are big posters in various public places in Berlin, \"We're voting for the chancellor\", beside a picture of Merkel with a beaming smile, brimming with confidence, Merkel remains chancellor, it seems to say, what ever happens. It feels almost smug. She knows the most likely coalition is a continuation of the grand coalition, under her leadership.", "tags": ["Germany", "Angela Merkel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Business as usual in Germany | Sabine Rennefanz"},{"date": "2009-09-23T16:00:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germans like to complain that this is the most boring election they've ever held. Perhaps they are still dazzled by the American election last year; perhaps they expect similar fireworks in the weeks before the Big Day.Maybe they forget that they live under a multiparty parliamentary system, where the excitement only begins when the polls close. Put that way, this election could end up a turning point \u2013 especially for German-American relations.Here's the good news: if, as expected, the election renews the coalition's mandate, Germany won't be pulling out of Afghanistan any time soon. Nor will the chancellor, Angela Merkel, or vice chancellor, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, immediately take a more confrontational approach on issues like climate change. But neither party prefers the existing arrangement, and most observers expect them to immediately begin positioning themselves for the next elections, which could come well before the mandated 2013 poll.Over time, that dynamic will push parts of the government toward a more critical stance vis-a-vis the US. As soon as the coalition is set, the SPD (Social Democratic party) will almost certainly try to win back voters on the left. The party has suffered from the rise of the Left party, a synthesis of disaffected western German SPD members and eastern German ex-communists.Consistently polling at about 10% (compared with the SPD at about 23%) and led by former SPD bigwig Oskar Lafontaine, on foreign policy the Left calls for a withdrawal from Nato, a curtailing of certain EU commitments and a reduction in military spending, among other goals.Steinmeier has ruled out a coalition with the Left on the national level, but there are many within the SPD who feel the only way back to fighting weight is to either win back the Left's voters or merge the two parties.Since the latter is unlikely with the SPD in a coalition government, there's a good possibility that the Social Democrats will start tacking left, particularly on issues like Afghanistan and climate change, where there exists the potential for significant disagreement between the Christian Democrats (CDU) and the SPD.In the short term, such positioning will remain just talk \u2013 though Steinmeier is and would remain foreign minister, Merkel and the chancellery are the real seat of foreign policymaking. But with the German public increasingly vocal in its opposition to the country's Afghanistan presence, there is little chance that the coalition would permit a new deployment of troops, as President Obama has consistently demanded, and a good chance that Steinmeier could push Merkel into setting an explicit timetable for withdrawal. Either option would be a substantial blow to America's AfPak mission.Climate policy is another place where Obama can expect turbulence, no matter what the outcome on Sunday. European officials at both the national and EU level have been increasingly critical of US inaction on climate change and its apparent lack of resolve in the run-up to December's Copenhagen summit, but Germany has been noticeably mum. That will likely change after the election, particularly as Steinmeier looks to steal support from the Left and the Greens.What if the coalition doesn't continue? The second most likely outcome, at least according to conventional wisdom, is a coalition between the CDU and the free-market Free Democrats (FDP). Both are strong supporters of the Afghanistan deployment and relatively lukewarm on climate policy, making this the best outcome for the US.But two other possible outcomes \u2013 three-way coalitions among the CDU, FDP, and Greens or the SPD, Left, and Greens \u2013 portend significant foreign policy changes. The Greens, who will likely get a vote total in the mid-teens, could easily become the kingmaker in a scenario in which the two other parties can't make a majority on their own. Either would likely mean a speedier Afghanistan withdrawal, or at least pressure on Obama to lessen Germany's military obligation. And it would definitely mean more vocal criticism on climate policy, at a time when the US needs Germany to be at least a quiet part of the opposition, if not an ally.German-American relations have improved dramatically since the 2002 election, when Gerhard Schr\u00f6der used Bush-bashing as a campaign tactic. And despite steady opposition to the US on security and climate policy, Obama remains a personally popular figure among the German public.But for that very reason, the post-election environment in Germany is one ripe for the politician savvy enough to take on American foreign policy without pushing too hard against Obama himself \u2013 indeed, his charisma may be the only reason it hasn't happened yet. Nevertheless, Obama probably wasn't speaking off the cuff when, earlier this summer, he told a press conference that he'd like to see Merkel continue as Germany's chancellor.He knows he needs the status quo in German foreign policy to give him international breathing room. The only problem is, come 28 September, even the status quo means change.", "tags": ["Germany", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Climate change", "Afghanistan", "Environment", "Europe"], "title": "Germany Now | Germany turns away from America | Clay Risen"},{"date": "2009-09-21T12:15:09Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany had been taking a noticeably tougher line with Iran lately. In past years Berlin has been the most ambivalent about sanctions and has a high volume of trade with the Islamic Republic. But at the moment Angela Merkel is talking up the need for more sanctions if there is no movement from Iran on uranium enrichment. London and Berlin are coordinating ahead of the UN general assembly this week so that they will both deliver the same stern message.There may well be a connection between this stiffening of Berlin's line and a strange case playing out in the German courts. The defendant is a German-Iranian trader called Mohsen Vanaki who was charged in 2007 with brokering the export of dual-use equipment with nuclear weapons applications to Iran through front companies in the Gulf.The exports included high speed cameras, which according to the Washington-based Institute for Science and International Security (there is a concise account and analysis of the Vanaki case on its website) have several conventional military uses as well as a role in developing nuclear warheads. They can help analyse the hemispheric array of explosives in an implosion device, of the sort IAEA inspectors say the Iranians have \"probably tested\" according to the \"secret annexe\" to the agency's Iran report leaked last week. Vanaki was also charged with exporting radiation detectors built to withstand harsh conditions. The extraordinary element in his trial was the use by Vanaki's lawyers of the US National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) on Iran, which had been just published at the time of the trial, and which judged \"with high confidence\" that weaponisation stopped in 2003 for \"at least several years\". If there was no weapons programme, the lawyers argued in the Frankfurt am Main court, Vanaki could not be a proliferator. The judges agreed and dismissed the charges.However, the prosecutors appealed against the verdict and in March this year, the appeal was upheld by a federal court, on the basis of evidence presented by German intelligence, the BND, that there was an Iranian weapons programme underway at the time of Vanaki's exports. The retrial began earlier this month.Vanaki insists he is innocent, but whatever the outcome of the trial, the striking thing about it is the BND has publicly revealed it believes Iran is continuing work on weaponisation. I checked with the Germans and they agreed with that interpretation.The British have always been sceptical about the NIE suggestion that weaponisation stopped in 2003, and briefed against the US estimate. One official I talked to recently said: \"We think something stopped in 2003-2004, but it is another leap to say everything stopped back then.\" It is worth remembering that the NIE only assessed \"with moderate confidence\" that work on weapons had not restarted as of mid-2007. There is not necessarily a contradiction here. It will be interesting to see whether the NIE is overridden in the coming months if the impasse over Iranian enrichment continues. On the one hand, there will be a desire to turn up the pressure on Iran, but on the other hand, western governments will be reluctant to give what Israel might interpret as a green light for military action. In any case, any briefings on intelligence clearly intended to align with western policy of the day will be treated with a fair degree of scepticism after Iraq. Russia and China will make up their own minds.", "tags": ["Nuclear weapons", "Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "The Mohsen Vanaki case in Germany"},{"date": "2009-09-09T14:50:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Finger pointing is the defence of the concerned and the cornered. So it reflects very poorly on Nato that allies are bickering with one another over an attack that killed an unknown number of Afghan civilians last week. Nato says up to 125 died when German forces ordered a strike on a hijacked Nato fuel tanker. The Germans initially said that the dead were all militants and argued that the tanker could have been used to attack Nato forces (Berlin has since admitted civilians may have been killed). The Afghan government says many of the dead were civilians and it lashed out at the Germans for being reckless. The French government has called the attack \"wrong\" and the US has criticised the Germans for waiting too long to determine whether civilians were among the dead.The allies need to take a deep breath. The last thing the Nato mission needs is more acrimony. Already, the allied publics think so poorly of the Afghan operation that the governments are coming under serious pressure to withdraw troops.Clearly, in most cases the death of civilians is not only tragic, it is also monumentally wrong. Nato has recently \u2013 and belatedly \u2013 recognised that it must reduce civilian casualties if it is to win the hearts and minds of ordinary Afghans. Only time and a proper investigation will tell what the German air traffic controllers, who called in the attack, knew, and when. The rest of the allies should recognise that if German troops indeed felt that the tankers were to be used in an imminent attack on Nato troops, they may have been right to order them bombed.The Germans owe it to the Afghans and the rest of Nato to explain their actions. Serious questions remain: the hijacked tankers were stuck in a river, so why were they a danger to Nato? The German military says its troops thought that only militants were present on the scene \u2013 an assessment that, the Germans say, was confirmed by an informant on the ground. But how could they been so sure given the number of people on the scene, and given that night-vision images (the attack happened at 2.30am) are far less clear than daytime imagery?The US has, in my mind, erred too, in inviting journalists along on a mission to assess the impact of the bombing, and allowing them to sit in on closed-door meetings between US and German officials where the bombing was discussed. The commander of US and Nato forces in Afghanistan, General Stanley McChrystal, is fighting two wars: besides the one in Afghanistan, he is also trying to keep the increasingly nervous governments at home from withdrawing troops. It is not obvious how he hoped to strengthen German support for the mission by inviting the media to lambast the German troops before a proper investigation had been completed.The tanker-bombing incident has completely obscured an important new reality. In recent months, the allies have narrowed their differences over the course of action for Afghanistan, and Gen McChrystal's new strategy has at last given Nato governments some grounds to hope for a turnaround. Among other things, the strategy puts clear emphasis on minimising civilian casualties. The recent strike is a tragic and important deviation from the strategy. It should be treated as such, investigated and closed. Instead of arguing, the allied governments need to focus on letting the new strategy work, and to give commanders on the ground time to prove it successful.", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa", "Nato", "Defence policy"], "title": "Germany owes Afghanistan an explanation | Tomas Valasek"},{"date": "2009-09-24T11:01:46Z", "country": "germany", "content": "ITV Studios has sold the format of the daytime talkshow Loose Women to Germany.The show, which consists of a group of women discussing the day's events and interviewing celebrities, regularly pulls in more than 1 million viewers in its lunchtime slot on ITV1.The 42-part German version, to be called Frauenzimmer, will air on the Vox channel, which is owned by the RTL Group, later this year and will be produced by an offshoot of ITV Studios, Granada Germany. The channel has already set up a website based on the show.Kai Sturm, the editor-in-chief of Vox, said: \"Granada Germany found seven extraordinary and witty women for Loose Women and we're looking forward to the launch date.\"The Vox commission will be the first international format for Loose Women, which first launched on ITV in 1999.\u2022 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["ITV plc", "Television industry", "Media business", "Media", "Daytime TV"], "title": "ITV sells Loose Women format to Germany"},{"date": "2009-12-10T21:02:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Gordon Brown claimed a victory for the government tonight after securing the support of France and Germany for its supertax on City bonuses amid signs that major Wall Street firms were attempting to prevent a similar clampdown by the Obama administration.Goldman Sachs, the highest profile firm on Wall Street, became the first to blink in the face of the public outcry over its expected handout of \u00a314bn in pay and bonuses this year, by suspending cash bonuses for its top 30 executives.The decision, which will affect six of its executives in London, is expected to set the tone for rivals on Wall Street and could send ripples across the Atlantic. It is believed to be among the options being considered by Barclays as part of a review of remuneration.The warm international reception for Brown's bonus tax held out the prospect that the prime minister could secure a much-needed political boost, as he did when other countries followed his lead on recapitalising the banks last year.The momentum building up in Europe behind the clampdown on bonuses followed conversations between Treasury officials and those in G7 countries on Wednesday after the pre-budget report outlined the 50% tax on bankers' bonuses of more than \u00a325,000.President Nicolas Sarkozy of France decided to follow the UK in imposing the one-off penalties on bonuses over \u20ac27,000 after weeks of feuding between London and Paris over the regulation of European markets.He had met Brown in Brussels today on the fringes of an EU summit to bury the hatchet after co-authoring an article calling for a global deal on the way banks behave.Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany also sounded sympathetic to the British initiative. She said it was a \"charming idea\" and showed how others could \"learn from the City of London\".While a Downing Street spokesman appeared optimistic that Germany would also follow suit, senior German sources cautioned that despite the sympathetic noises from Berlin, Merkel would not, for legal reasons, be able to replicate the banker-bashing.Brown said: \"I think the French agreement to support what we are doing on one-off bonuses is very important. There is a one-off national insurance premium to be paid by the City, and that will happen in France as well.\"I believe other countries will now want to look at it and we have also an agreement in the international community to look at the relationship between banks and the service they owe to society. France is very supportive on that. The debate in the international community will move forward.\"Merkel prefers a Tobin-style tax on financial transactions, which Brown is attempting to persuade major leaders to endorse.In a letter to the other 26 EU heads of government, Brown said: \"The EU should work actively with our international partners to develop proposals to ensure a better balance of risks, rewards and responsibility between society and the financial sector.\"The US administration is opposed to a Tobin tax but is facing calls to copy the UK's payroll tax on bonuses \u2013 a move that has been greeted with concern in US banking circles.\"Goldman Sachs is worried. They're worried about the public reaction to bonuses they're paying in the worst recession since the war,\" said Alan Charney, programme director for US Action, a union-backed campaign group.The US treasury declined to comment today on its view of Britain's tax on bonuses, although a handful of left-leaning members of Congress have called for a similar levy in the US.Total bonus payouts on Wall Street are due to rise by 40% to $26bn this year. The Obama administration has appointed a so-called \"compensation tsar\", Kenneth Feinberg, to examine pay policies, although his remit extends only to banks being propped up by bailout funds.Steve Hall, a New York-based pay consultant who advises American companies on devising remuneration, said there was concern at the prospect of Brown's tax gaining international impetus after France's decision to follow Britain's lead: \"This is spreading \u2013 this is worse than swine flu.\"In lieu of cash payments, the Goldman executives will receive shares. Under enhanced \"clawback\" powers, the bank will be able to reclaim shares from any employees found to have inflicted \"material financial harm\" on its businesses. And in an unprecedented move for a major US bank, Goldman will put its remuneration policies before a yearly \"say on pay\" vote by shareholders at its annual meetings.A Goldman spokesman said the bank had taken public opinion into consideration: \"The motivation was that these are extraordinary times, that the firm has done well and that that has excited a great deal of comment and not a little criticism.\"Before the financial crisis hit, Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd Blankfein, was the best-paid bank boss on Wall Street, taking home $68.5m in 2007, while two of his top lieutenants earned $67.5m each. The US treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, recently pointed out that Goldman would have collapsed had it not been for the US government's support of the industry.President Obama will host a meeting at the White House on Monday with banking chiefs including the heads of Goldman, Citigroup and Bank of America, where pay policies are sure to be on the agenda.In the City, warnings that the tax would result in an exodus of star players were matched by those insisting that the supertax would be easy to dodge.", "tags": ["Executive pay and bonuses", "Banking", "Economic policy", "Pre-budget report", "Economics", "Goldman Sachs", "UK news", "France", "Germany", "US news", "World news", "Business", "Politics", "Tax", "Gordon Brown", "Pre-budget report 2009", "Europe"], "title": "France and Germany back UK bonus tax"},{"date": "2009-12-10T21:02:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Gordon Brown claimed a victory for the government tonight after securing the support of France and Germany for its supertax on City bonuses amid signs that major Wall Street firms were attempting to prevent a similar clampdown by the Obama administration.Goldman Sachs, the highest profile firm on Wall Street, became the first to blink in the face of the public outcry over its expected handout of \u00a314bn in pay and bonuses this year, by suspending cash bonuses for its top 30 executives.The decision, which will affect six of its executives in London, is expected to set the tone for rivals on Wall Street and could send ripples across the Atlantic. It is believed to be among the options being considered by Barclays as part of a review of remuneration.The warm international reception for Brown's bonus tax held out the prospect that the prime minister could secure a much-needed political boost, as he did when other countries followed his lead on recapitalising the banks last year.The momentum building up in Europe behind the clampdown on bonuses followed conversations between Treasury officials and those in G7 countries on Wednesday after the pre-budget report outlined the 50% tax on bankers' bonuses of more than \u00a325,000.President Nicolas Sarkozy of France decided to follow the UK in imposing the one-off penalties on bonuses over \u20ac27,000 after weeks of feuding between London and Paris over the regulation of European markets.He had met Brown in Brussels today on the fringes of an EU summit to bury the hatchet after co-authoring an article calling for a global deal on the way banks behave.Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany also sounded sympathetic to the British initiative. She said it was a \"charming idea\" and showed how others could \"learn from the City of London\".While a Downing Street spokesman appeared optimistic that Germany would also follow suit, senior German sources cautioned that despite the sympathetic noises from Berlin, Merkel would not, for legal reasons, be able to replicate the banker-bashing.Brown said: \"I think the French agreement to support what we are doing on one-off bonuses is very important. There is a one-off national insurance premium to be paid by the City, and that will happen in France as well.\"I believe other countries will now want to look at it and we have also an agreement in the international community to look at the relationship between banks and the service they owe to society. France is very supportive on that. The debate in the international community will move forward.\"Merkel prefers a Tobin-style tax on financial transactions, which Brown is attempting to persuade major leaders to endorse.In a letter to the other 26 EU heads of government, Brown said: \"The EU should work actively with our international partners to develop proposals to ensure a better balance of risks, rewards and responsibility between society and the financial sector.\"The US administration is opposed to a Tobin tax but is facing calls to copy the UK's payroll tax on bonuses \u2013 a move that has been greeted with concern in US banking circles.\"Goldman Sachs is worried. They're worried about the public reaction to bonuses they're paying in the worst recession since the war,\" said Alan Charney, programme director for US Action, a union-backed campaign group.The US treasury declined to comment today on its view of Britain's tax on bonuses, although a handful of left-leaning members of Congress have called for a similar levy in the US.Total bonus payouts on Wall Street are due to rise by 40% to $26bn this year. The Obama administration has appointed a so-called \"compensation tsar\", Kenneth Feinberg, to examine pay policies, although his remit extends only to banks being propped up by bailout funds.Steve Hall, a New York-based pay consultant who advises American companies on devising remuneration, said there was concern at the prospect of Brown's tax gaining international impetus after France's decision to follow Britain's lead: \"This is spreading \u2013 this is worse than swine flu.\"In lieu of cash payments, the Goldman executives will receive shares. Under enhanced \"clawback\" powers, the bank will be able to reclaim shares from any employees found to have inflicted \"material financial harm\" on its businesses. And in an unprecedented move for a major US bank, Goldman will put its remuneration policies before a yearly \"say on pay\" vote by shareholders at its annual meetings.A Goldman spokesman said the bank had taken public opinion into consideration: \"The motivation was that these are extraordinary times, that the firm has done well and that that has excited a great deal of comment and not a little criticism.\"Before the financial crisis hit, Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd Blankfein, was the best-paid bank boss on Wall Street, taking home $68.5m in 2007, while two of his top lieutenants earned $67.5m each. The US treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, recently pointed out that Goldman would have collapsed had it not been for the US government's support of the industry.President Obama will host a meeting at the White House on Monday with banking chiefs including the heads of Goldman, Citigroup and Bank of America, where pay policies are sure to be on the agenda.In the City, warnings that the tax would result in an exodus of star players were matched by those insisting that the supertax would be easy to dodge.", "tags": ["Executive pay and bonuses", "Banking", "Economic policy", "Pre-budget report", "Economics", "Goldman Sachs", "UK news", "France", "Germany", "US news", "World news", "Business", "Politics", "Tax", "Gordon Brown", "Pre-budget report 2009", "Europe"], "title": "France and Germany back UK bonus tax"},{"date": "2009-11-20T23:57:43Z", "country": "germany", "content": "British troops could be withdrawn from Germany by a future Tory government if other Nato states agreed to take over the UK's commitments there, the shadow defence secretary, Liam Fox, has said.Fox said it is \"no longer necessary\" to keep 20,000 military personnel in Germany, nearly 70 years after the end of the second world war. Ending the deployment would free up forces to carry out vital Nato operations outside Europe, he said.The number of soldiers in Germany has been scaled down over the years and their presence is now centred on Herford, near Hanover, where the 1st Armoured Division is based.In an interview with the Daily Telegraph, Fox signalled his determination to conduct a \"wholesale recasting of our foreign and defence policy \u2026 If other countries are willing to take up roles in continental defence, that leaves Britain and France able to take on expeditionary roles,\" he said.New Nato member states from eastern and central Europe, particularly Poland, should take over Britain's commitments in Germany, he added.A final decision will depend on negotiations with Nato allies, especially France, and on the Ministry of Defence's ability to handle the return of so many soldiers, for whom there is no accommodation in the UK. \"Finding a more creative diplomatic solution in Nato will be a priority for an incoming Conservative government.Fox said he had told civil servants to prepare plans for cutting the MoD's administrative costs by 25% \u2013 some \u00a33bn \u2013 by 2012.The Tories are also looking at fast-tracking younger commanders with combat experience in Iraq and Afghanistan to senior posts.", "tags": ["Military", "Defence policy", "Foreign policy", "Liam Fox", "Politics"], "title": "Tories may pull out troops from Germany"},{"date": "2009-12-10T21:02:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Gordon Brown claimed a victory for the government tonight after securing the support of France and Germany for its supertax on City bonuses amid signs that major Wall Street firms were attempting to prevent a similar clampdown by the Obama administration.Goldman Sachs, the highest profile firm on Wall Street, became the first to blink in the face of the public outcry over its expected handout of \u00a314bn in pay and bonuses this year, by suspending cash bonuses for its top 30 executives.The decision, which will affect six of its executives in London, is expected to set the tone for rivals on Wall Street and could send ripples across the Atlantic. It is believed to be among the options being considered by Barclays as part of a review of remuneration.The warm international reception for Brown's bonus tax held out the prospect that the prime minister could secure a much-needed political boost, as he did when other countries followed his lead on recapitalising the banks last year.The momentum building up in Europe behind the clampdown on bonuses followed conversations between Treasury officials and those in G7 countries on Wednesday after the pre-budget report outlined the 50% tax on bankers' bonuses of more than \u00a325,000.President Nicolas Sarkozy of France decided to follow the UK in imposing the one-off penalties on bonuses over \u20ac27,000 after weeks of feuding between London and Paris over the regulation of European markets.He had met Brown in Brussels today on the fringes of an EU summit to bury the hatchet after co-authoring an article calling for a global deal on the way banks behave.Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany also sounded sympathetic to the British initiative. She said it was a \"charming idea\" and showed how others could \"learn from the City of London\".While a Downing Street spokesman appeared optimistic that Germany would also follow suit, senior German sources cautioned that despite the sympathetic noises from Berlin, Merkel would not, for legal reasons, be able to replicate the banker-bashing.Brown said: \"I think the French agreement to support what we are doing on one-off bonuses is very important. There is a one-off national insurance premium to be paid by the City, and that will happen in France as well.\"I believe other countries will now want to look at it and we have also an agreement in the international community to look at the relationship between banks and the service they owe to society. France is very supportive on that. The debate in the international community will move forward.\"Merkel prefers a Tobin-style tax on financial transactions, which Brown is attempting to persuade major leaders to endorse.In a letter to the other 26 EU heads of government, Brown said: \"The EU should work actively with our international partners to develop proposals to ensure a better balance of risks, rewards and responsibility between society and the financial sector.\"The US administration is opposed to a Tobin tax but is facing calls to copy the UK's payroll tax on bonuses \u2013 a move that has been greeted with concern in US banking circles.\"Goldman Sachs is worried. They're worried about the public reaction to bonuses they're paying in the worst recession since the war,\" said Alan Charney, programme director for US Action, a union-backed campaign group.The US treasury declined to comment today on its view of Britain's tax on bonuses, although a handful of left-leaning members of Congress have called for a similar levy in the US.Total bonus payouts on Wall Street are due to rise by 40% to $26bn this year. The Obama administration has appointed a so-called \"compensation tsar\", Kenneth Feinberg, to examine pay policies, although his remit extends only to banks being propped up by bailout funds.Steve Hall, a New York-based pay consultant who advises American companies on devising remuneration, said there was concern at the prospect of Brown's tax gaining international impetus after France's decision to follow Britain's lead: \"This is spreading \u2013 this is worse than swine flu.\"In lieu of cash payments, the Goldman executives will receive shares. Under enhanced \"clawback\" powers, the bank will be able to reclaim shares from any employees found to have inflicted \"material financial harm\" on its businesses. And in an unprecedented move for a major US bank, Goldman will put its remuneration policies before a yearly \"say on pay\" vote by shareholders at its annual meetings.A Goldman spokesman said the bank had taken public opinion into consideration: \"The motivation was that these are extraordinary times, that the firm has done well and that that has excited a great deal of comment and not a little criticism.\"Before the financial crisis hit, Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd Blankfein, was the best-paid bank boss on Wall Street, taking home $68.5m in 2007, while two of his top lieutenants earned $67.5m each. The US treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, recently pointed out that Goldman would have collapsed had it not been for the US government's support of the industry.President Obama will host a meeting at the White House on Monday with banking chiefs including the heads of Goldman, Citigroup and Bank of America, where pay policies are sure to be on the agenda.In the City, warnings that the tax would result in an exodus of star players were matched by those insisting that the supertax would be easy to dodge.", "tags": ["Executive pay and bonuses", "Banking", "Economic policy", "Pre-budget report", "Economics", "Goldman Sachs", "UK news", "France", "Germany", "US news", "World news", "Business", "Politics", "Tax", "Gordon Brown", "Pre-budget report 2009", "Europe"], "title": "France and Germany back UK bonus tax"},{"date": "2009-11-20T23:57:43Z", "country": "germany", "content": "British troops could be withdrawn from Germany by a future Tory government if other Nato states agreed to take over the UK's commitments there, the shadow defence secretary, Liam Fox, has said.Fox said it is \"no longer necessary\" to keep 20,000 military personnel in Germany, nearly 70 years after the end of the second world war. Ending the deployment would free up forces to carry out vital Nato operations outside Europe, he said.The number of soldiers in Germany has been scaled down over the years and their presence is now centred on Herford, near Hanover, where the 1st Armoured Division is based.In an interview with the Daily Telegraph, Fox signalled his determination to conduct a \"wholesale recasting of our foreign and defence policy \u2026 If other countries are willing to take up roles in continental defence, that leaves Britain and France able to take on expeditionary roles,\" he said.New Nato member states from eastern and central Europe, particularly Poland, should take over Britain's commitments in Germany, he added.A final decision will depend on negotiations with Nato allies, especially France, and on the Ministry of Defence's ability to handle the return of so many soldiers, for whom there is no accommodation in the UK. \"Finding a more creative diplomatic solution in Nato will be a priority for an incoming Conservative government.Fox said he had told civil servants to prepare plans for cutting the MoD's administrative costs by 25% \u2013 some \u00a33bn \u2013 by 2012.The Tories are also looking at fast-tracking younger commanders with combat experience in Iraq and Afghanistan to senior posts.", "tags": ["Military", "Defence policy", "Foreign policy", "Liam Fox", "Politics"], "title": "Tories may pull out troops from Germany"},{"date": "2009-10-14T17:33:34Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Pint-sized, plastic and the height of kitsch they may be, but no one in Germany would usually think twice about seeing a garden gnome, given there are 25 million of them across the country.But a battery of 1,250 of them that appeared on a square in a Bavarian town has caused an outcry, not least because their arms are in a Nazi salute.The artist Ottmar H\u00f6rl placed the gnomes in the town of Straubing, close to Munich, in an installation called Dance With the Devil.It follows controversy sparked by a single, golden Hitler-saluting gnome crafted by H\u00f6rl that prosecutors tried to remove from an art gallery in the summer on the grounds that Nazi symbols were prohibited in public.They later dropped the case, recognising that the piece was satirical, and the artist has since seen a run on requests for his creations.H\u00f6rl, 59, who has made other mass reproductions, including a group of praying dwarfs made in the image of Pope Benedict that provoked a similar row, said his gnomes were meant to highlight the rise of fascism in Germany and were a \"historical social gesture\".\"I want to show that there is far-right thought in the heads of all of us,\" he said, adding that gnomes were a particularly fitting method for conveying his message \"in a lighter and unpatronising way, at the same time as being strong enough to provoke a reaction.\"As long as I manage to polarise, I'm on the right track,\" he added.H\u00f6rl's 39cm plastic gnomes, which went on display today for five days, were financed by the local wing of the Social Democratic party (SPD).Hans Lohmeier, of the SPD, said the party agreed to cover the \u20ac20,000 cost of the installation after the town's cultural committee twice refused to do so. Summing up the local reaction, he said: \"There are some who say 'what do we want with this tripe?', others who say it's endangering their kids, but many others have understood what this is all about.\"", "tags": ["Germany", "Art", "Art and design", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Nazi gnomes cause outcry in Germany"},{"date": "2009-12-10T21:02:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Gordon Brown claimed a victory for the government tonight after securing the support of France and Germany for its supertax on City bonuses amid signs that major Wall Street firms were attempting to prevent a similar clampdown by the Obama administration.Goldman Sachs, the highest profile firm on Wall Street, became the first to blink in the face of the public outcry over its expected handout of \u00a314bn in pay and bonuses this year, by suspending cash bonuses for its top 30 executives.The decision, which will affect six of its executives in London, is expected to set the tone for rivals on Wall Street and could send ripples across the Atlantic. It is believed to be among the options being considered by Barclays as part of a review of remuneration.The warm international reception for Brown's bonus tax held out the prospect that the prime minister could secure a much-needed political boost, as he did when other countries followed his lead on recapitalising the banks last year.The momentum building up in Europe behind the clampdown on bonuses followed conversations between Treasury officials and those in G7 countries on Wednesday after the pre-budget report outlined the 50% tax on bankers' bonuses of more than \u00a325,000.President Nicolas Sarkozy of France decided to follow the UK in imposing the one-off penalties on bonuses over \u20ac27,000 after weeks of feuding between London and Paris over the regulation of European markets.He had met Brown in Brussels today on the fringes of an EU summit to bury the hatchet after co-authoring an article calling for a global deal on the way banks behave.Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany also sounded sympathetic to the British initiative. She said it was a \"charming idea\" and showed how others could \"learn from the City of London\".While a Downing Street spokesman appeared optimistic that Germany would also follow suit, senior German sources cautioned that despite the sympathetic noises from Berlin, Merkel would not, for legal reasons, be able to replicate the banker-bashing.Brown said: \"I think the French agreement to support what we are doing on one-off bonuses is very important. There is a one-off national insurance premium to be paid by the City, and that will happen in France as well.\"I believe other countries will now want to look at it and we have also an agreement in the international community to look at the relationship between banks and the service they owe to society. France is very supportive on that. The debate in the international community will move forward.\"Merkel prefers a Tobin-style tax on financial transactions, which Brown is attempting to persuade major leaders to endorse.In a letter to the other 26 EU heads of government, Brown said: \"The EU should work actively with our international partners to develop proposals to ensure a better balance of risks, rewards and responsibility between society and the financial sector.\"The US administration is opposed to a Tobin tax but is facing calls to copy the UK's payroll tax on bonuses \u2013 a move that has been greeted with concern in US banking circles.\"Goldman Sachs is worried. They're worried about the public reaction to bonuses they're paying in the worst recession since the war,\" said Alan Charney, programme director for US Action, a union-backed campaign group.The US treasury declined to comment today on its view of Britain's tax on bonuses, although a handful of left-leaning members of Congress have called for a similar levy in the US.Total bonus payouts on Wall Street are due to rise by 40% to $26bn this year. The Obama administration has appointed a so-called \"compensation tsar\", Kenneth Feinberg, to examine pay policies, although his remit extends only to banks being propped up by bailout funds.Steve Hall, a New York-based pay consultant who advises American companies on devising remuneration, said there was concern at the prospect of Brown's tax gaining international impetus after France's decision to follow Britain's lead: \"This is spreading \u2013 this is worse than swine flu.\"In lieu of cash payments, the Goldman executives will receive shares. Under enhanced \"clawback\" powers, the bank will be able to reclaim shares from any employees found to have inflicted \"material financial harm\" on its businesses. And in an unprecedented move for a major US bank, Goldman will put its remuneration policies before a yearly \"say on pay\" vote by shareholders at its annual meetings.A Goldman spokesman said the bank had taken public opinion into consideration: \"The motivation was that these are extraordinary times, that the firm has done well and that that has excited a great deal of comment and not a little criticism.\"Before the financial crisis hit, Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd Blankfein, was the best-paid bank boss on Wall Street, taking home $68.5m in 2007, while two of his top lieutenants earned $67.5m each. The US treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, recently pointed out that Goldman would have collapsed had it not been for the US government's support of the industry.President Obama will host a meeting at the White House on Monday with banking chiefs including the heads of Goldman, Citigroup and Bank of America, where pay policies are sure to be on the agenda.In the City, warnings that the tax would result in an exodus of star players were matched by those insisting that the supertax would be easy to dodge.", "tags": ["Executive pay and bonuses", "Banking", "Economic policy", "Pre-budget report", "Economics", "Goldman Sachs", "UK news", "France", "Germany", "US news", "World news", "Business", "Politics", "Tax", "Gordon Brown", "Pre-budget report 2009", "Europe"], "title": "France and Germany back UK bonus tax"},{"date": "2009-11-20T23:57:43Z", "country": "germany", "content": "British troops could be withdrawn from Germany by a future Tory government if other Nato states agreed to take over the UK's commitments there, the shadow defence secretary, Liam Fox, has said.Fox said it is \"no longer necessary\" to keep 20,000 military personnel in Germany, nearly 70 years after the end of the second world war. Ending the deployment would free up forces to carry out vital Nato operations outside Europe, he said.The number of soldiers in Germany has been scaled down over the years and their presence is now centred on Herford, near Hanover, where the 1st Armoured Division is based.In an interview with the Daily Telegraph, Fox signalled his determination to conduct a \"wholesale recasting of our foreign and defence policy \u2026 If other countries are willing to take up roles in continental defence, that leaves Britain and France able to take on expeditionary roles,\" he said.New Nato member states from eastern and central Europe, particularly Poland, should take over Britain's commitments in Germany, he added.A final decision will depend on negotiations with Nato allies, especially France, and on the Ministry of Defence's ability to handle the return of so many soldiers, for whom there is no accommodation in the UK. \"Finding a more creative diplomatic solution in Nato will be a priority for an incoming Conservative government.Fox said he had told civil servants to prepare plans for cutting the MoD's administrative costs by 25% \u2013 some \u00a33bn \u2013 by 2012.The Tories are also looking at fast-tracking younger commanders with combat experience in Iraq and Afghanistan to senior posts.", "tags": ["Military", "Defence policy", "Foreign policy", "Liam Fox", "Politics"], "title": "Tories may pull out troops from Germany"},{"date": "2009-10-14T17:33:34Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Pint-sized, plastic and the height of kitsch they may be, but no one in Germany would usually think twice about seeing a garden gnome, given there are 25 million of them across the country.But a battery of 1,250 of them that appeared on a square in a Bavarian town has caused an outcry, not least because their arms are in a Nazi salute.The artist Ottmar H\u00f6rl placed the gnomes in the town of Straubing, close to Munich, in an installation called Dance With the Devil.It follows controversy sparked by a single, golden Hitler-saluting gnome crafted by H\u00f6rl that prosecutors tried to remove from an art gallery in the summer on the grounds that Nazi symbols were prohibited in public.They later dropped the case, recognising that the piece was satirical, and the artist has since seen a run on requests for his creations.H\u00f6rl, 59, who has made other mass reproductions, including a group of praying dwarfs made in the image of Pope Benedict that provoked a similar row, said his gnomes were meant to highlight the rise of fascism in Germany and were a \"historical social gesture\".\"I want to show that there is far-right thought in the heads of all of us,\" he said, adding that gnomes were a particularly fitting method for conveying his message \"in a lighter and unpatronising way, at the same time as being strong enough to provoke a reaction.\"As long as I manage to polarise, I'm on the right track,\" he added.H\u00f6rl's 39cm plastic gnomes, which went on display today for five days, were financed by the local wing of the Social Democratic party (SPD).Hans Lohmeier, of the SPD, said the party agreed to cover the \u20ac20,000 cost of the installation after the town's cultural committee twice refused to do so. Summing up the local reaction, he said: \"There are some who say 'what do we want with this tripe?', others who say it's endangering their kids, but many others have understood what this is all about.\"", "tags": ["Germany", "Art", "Art and design", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Nazi gnomes cause outcry in Germany"},{"date": "2009-11-17T09:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Berliner Br\u00fccke, which spans the river Ruhr and the Rhein-Herne canal on the autobahn 59, offers a good view of the city. Here you can appreciate the extent of industrial activity still taking place in Duisburg. Looking west towards the Rhine you can see the harbour with a forest of swivelling cranes. North towards Hamborn there are a frightening number of stacks and cooling towers, most of them still active. And just to the right of these is the dome of the new mosque, the biggest in Germany.All the big names in steel are still here: Krupp, Mannesmann, Thyssen and Haniel. More steel is produced here than in almost any other city in the world. This has earned Duisburg its sobriquet The City of a Thousand Fires. Off the motorway, the city is a conglomeration of mainly dormitory suburbs consisting of rather dull streets.And yet living in Duisburg has some moments of serendipity and idiosyncrasy. The main part of the city is a narrow strip, about 4km in width stretching about 3km along the right bank of the Rhine. Bordering on the city and infiltrating it in places is the Duisburger Forest. It is nearly as long as the city itself.About a year after I arrived here, I learned that there was a holy well somewhere in the forest. One day I set out to find it. I walked for several hours through this magnificent wood consisting mainly of mature oak and beech. It had an almost Brothers Grimm quality. I had almost given up hope of finding the well when I met a woodcutter \u2013 she was snipping some twigs to decorate her apartment.Following her directions I soon found a marker pointing towards the well. I was parched with thirst and looked forward to a deep draught of pure limpid water. When I arrived I was confronted with two signs: One said Heiliger Brunnen (holy well), the other said Kein Trinkwasser (not potable). I decided to put my faith in the first one.Not far from the holy well is Der Ort f\u00fcr Waldgottesdienst, or the Place of Forest Worship. There was no building in sight. It is a simple clearing surrounded by 200-year-old trees, where in the summer religious services are held on the first Sunday of the month. This is where pagans get their money's worth as surprisingly, perhaps, there is a collection during the services.", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Germany", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: a quest for holy water ends well"},{"date": "2009-12-10T21:02:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Gordon Brown claimed a victory for the government tonight after securing the support of France and Germany for its supertax on City bonuses amid signs that major Wall Street firms were attempting to prevent a similar clampdown by the Obama administration.Goldman Sachs, the highest profile firm on Wall Street, became the first to blink in the face of the public outcry over its expected handout of \u00a314bn in pay and bonuses this year, by suspending cash bonuses for its top 30 executives.The decision, which will affect six of its executives in London, is expected to set the tone for rivals on Wall Street and could send ripples across the Atlantic. It is believed to be among the options being considered by Barclays as part of a review of remuneration.The warm international reception for Brown's bonus tax held out the prospect that the prime minister could secure a much-needed political boost, as he did when other countries followed his lead on recapitalising the banks last year.The momentum building up in Europe behind the clampdown on bonuses followed conversations between Treasury officials and those in G7 countries on Wednesday after the pre-budget report outlined the 50% tax on bankers' bonuses of more than \u00a325,000.President Nicolas Sarkozy of France decided to follow the UK in imposing the one-off penalties on bonuses over \u20ac27,000 after weeks of feuding between London and Paris over the regulation of European markets.He had met Brown in Brussels today on the fringes of an EU summit to bury the hatchet after co-authoring an article calling for a global deal on the way banks behave.Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany also sounded sympathetic to the British initiative. She said it was a \"charming idea\" and showed how others could \"learn from the City of London\".While a Downing Street spokesman appeared optimistic that Germany would also follow suit, senior German sources cautioned that despite the sympathetic noises from Berlin, Merkel would not, for legal reasons, be able to replicate the banker-bashing.Brown said: \"I think the French agreement to support what we are doing on one-off bonuses is very important. There is a one-off national insurance premium to be paid by the City, and that will happen in France as well.\"I believe other countries will now want to look at it and we have also an agreement in the international community to look at the relationship between banks and the service they owe to society. France is very supportive on that. The debate in the international community will move forward.\"Merkel prefers a Tobin-style tax on financial transactions, which Brown is attempting to persuade major leaders to endorse.In a letter to the other 26 EU heads of government, Brown said: \"The EU should work actively with our international partners to develop proposals to ensure a better balance of risks, rewards and responsibility between society and the financial sector.\"The US administration is opposed to a Tobin tax but is facing calls to copy the UK's payroll tax on bonuses \u2013 a move that has been greeted with concern in US banking circles.\"Goldman Sachs is worried. They're worried about the public reaction to bonuses they're paying in the worst recession since the war,\" said Alan Charney, programme director for US Action, a union-backed campaign group.The US treasury declined to comment today on its view of Britain's tax on bonuses, although a handful of left-leaning members of Congress have called for a similar levy in the US.Total bonus payouts on Wall Street are due to rise by 40% to $26bn this year. The Obama administration has appointed a so-called \"compensation tsar\", Kenneth Feinberg, to examine pay policies, although his remit extends only to banks being propped up by bailout funds.Steve Hall, a New York-based pay consultant who advises American companies on devising remuneration, said there was concern at the prospect of Brown's tax gaining international impetus after France's decision to follow Britain's lead: \"This is spreading \u2013 this is worse than swine flu.\"In lieu of cash payments, the Goldman executives will receive shares. Under enhanced \"clawback\" powers, the bank will be able to reclaim shares from any employees found to have inflicted \"material financial harm\" on its businesses. And in an unprecedented move for a major US bank, Goldman will put its remuneration policies before a yearly \"say on pay\" vote by shareholders at its annual meetings.A Goldman spokesman said the bank had taken public opinion into consideration: \"The motivation was that these are extraordinary times, that the firm has done well and that that has excited a great deal of comment and not a little criticism.\"Before the financial crisis hit, Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd Blankfein, was the best-paid bank boss on Wall Street, taking home $68.5m in 2007, while two of his top lieutenants earned $67.5m each. The US treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, recently pointed out that Goldman would have collapsed had it not been for the US government's support of the industry.President Obama will host a meeting at the White House on Monday with banking chiefs including the heads of Goldman, Citigroup and Bank of America, where pay policies are sure to be on the agenda.In the City, warnings that the tax would result in an exodus of star players were matched by those insisting that the supertax would be easy to dodge.", "tags": ["Executive pay and bonuses", "Banking", "Economic policy", "Pre-budget report", "Economics", "Goldman Sachs", "UK news", "France", "Germany", "US news", "World news", "Business", "Politics", "Tax", "Gordon Brown", "Pre-budget report 2009", "Europe"], "title": "France and Germany back UK bonus tax"},{"date": "2009-11-20T23:57:43Z", "country": "germany", "content": "British troops could be withdrawn from Germany by a future Tory government if other Nato states agreed to take over the UK's commitments there, the shadow defence secretary, Liam Fox, has said.Fox said it is \"no longer necessary\" to keep 20,000 military personnel in Germany, nearly 70 years after the end of the second world war. Ending the deployment would free up forces to carry out vital Nato operations outside Europe, he said.The number of soldiers in Germany has been scaled down over the years and their presence is now centred on Herford, near Hanover, where the 1st Armoured Division is based.In an interview with the Daily Telegraph, Fox signalled his determination to conduct a \"wholesale recasting of our foreign and defence policy \u2026 If other countries are willing to take up roles in continental defence, that leaves Britain and France able to take on expeditionary roles,\" he said.New Nato member states from eastern and central Europe, particularly Poland, should take over Britain's commitments in Germany, he added.A final decision will depend on negotiations with Nato allies, especially France, and on the Ministry of Defence's ability to handle the return of so many soldiers, for whom there is no accommodation in the UK. \"Finding a more creative diplomatic solution in Nato will be a priority for an incoming Conservative government.Fox said he had told civil servants to prepare plans for cutting the MoD's administrative costs by 25% \u2013 some \u00a33bn \u2013 by 2012.The Tories are also looking at fast-tracking younger commanders with combat experience in Iraq and Afghanistan to senior posts.", "tags": ["Military", "Defence policy", "Foreign policy", "Liam Fox", "Politics"], "title": "Tories may pull out troops from Germany"},{"date": "2009-10-14T17:33:34Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Pint-sized, plastic and the height of kitsch they may be, but no one in Germany would usually think twice about seeing a garden gnome, given there are 25 million of them across the country.But a battery of 1,250 of them that appeared on a square in a Bavarian town has caused an outcry, not least because their arms are in a Nazi salute.The artist Ottmar H\u00f6rl placed the gnomes in the town of Straubing, close to Munich, in an installation called Dance With the Devil.It follows controversy sparked by a single, golden Hitler-saluting gnome crafted by H\u00f6rl that prosecutors tried to remove from an art gallery in the summer on the grounds that Nazi symbols were prohibited in public.They later dropped the case, recognising that the piece was satirical, and the artist has since seen a run on requests for his creations.H\u00f6rl, 59, who has made other mass reproductions, including a group of praying dwarfs made in the image of Pope Benedict that provoked a similar row, said his gnomes were meant to highlight the rise of fascism in Germany and were a \"historical social gesture\".\"I want to show that there is far-right thought in the heads of all of us,\" he said, adding that gnomes were a particularly fitting method for conveying his message \"in a lighter and unpatronising way, at the same time as being strong enough to provoke a reaction.\"As long as I manage to polarise, I'm on the right track,\" he added.H\u00f6rl's 39cm plastic gnomes, which went on display today for five days, were financed by the local wing of the Social Democratic party (SPD).Hans Lohmeier, of the SPD, said the party agreed to cover the \u20ac20,000 cost of the installation after the town's cultural committee twice refused to do so. Summing up the local reaction, he said: \"There are some who say 'what do we want with this tripe?', others who say it's endangering their kids, but many others have understood what this is all about.\"", "tags": ["Germany", "Art", "Art and design", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Nazi gnomes cause outcry in Germany"},{"date": "2009-11-17T09:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Berliner Br\u00fccke, which spans the river Ruhr and the Rhein-Herne canal on the autobahn 59, offers a good view of the city. Here you can appreciate the extent of industrial activity still taking place in Duisburg. Looking west towards the Rhine you can see the harbour with a forest of swivelling cranes. North towards Hamborn there are a frightening number of stacks and cooling towers, most of them still active. And just to the right of these is the dome of the new mosque, the biggest in Germany.All the big names in steel are still here: Krupp, Mannesmann, Thyssen and Haniel. More steel is produced here than in almost any other city in the world. This has earned Duisburg its sobriquet The City of a Thousand Fires. Off the motorway, the city is a conglomeration of mainly dormitory suburbs consisting of rather dull streets.And yet living in Duisburg has some moments of serendipity and idiosyncrasy. The main part of the city is a narrow strip, about 4km in width stretching about 3km along the right bank of the Rhine. Bordering on the city and infiltrating it in places is the Duisburger Forest. It is nearly as long as the city itself.About a year after I arrived here, I learned that there was a holy well somewhere in the forest. One day I set out to find it. I walked for several hours through this magnificent wood consisting mainly of mature oak and beech. It had an almost Brothers Grimm quality. I had almost given up hope of finding the well when I met a woodcutter \u2013 she was snipping some twigs to decorate her apartment.Following her directions I soon found a marker pointing towards the well. I was parched with thirst and looked forward to a deep draught of pure limpid water. When I arrived I was confronted with two signs: One said Heiliger Brunnen (holy well), the other said Kein Trinkwasser (not potable). I decided to put my faith in the first one.Not far from the holy well is Der Ort f\u00fcr Waldgottesdienst, or the Place of Forest Worship. There was no building in sight. It is a simple clearing surrounded by 200-year-old trees, where in the summer religious services are held on the first Sunday of the month. This is where pagans get their money's worth as surprisingly, perhaps, there is a collection during the services.", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Germany", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: a quest for holy water ends well"},{"date": "2009-11-10T10:06:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Rammstein's Liebe ist f\u00fcr alle da, the No 2 album in Europe, can no longer be \"publicly displayed\" in German shops. According to the German ministry responsible for protecting children, the industrial-metal group's sixth studio album is \"harmful\" to young people with its provocative art, lyrics and song titles.The ruling by the Office for the Examination of Media Harmful to Young People takes effect tomorrow (11 November), from which point Rammstein's album may only be sold \"under the counter\" and one track, Ich tu dir weh (I Want to Hurt You), will be banned from live performance. The album can no longer be advertised or made accessible to people under the age of 18.Rammstein happily court controversy, and with their new album they haven't changed their tune so much as played it louder than usual. The album's cover \u2013 a painting featuring the band eating the flesh of a naked woman \u2013 isn't worse than many other heavy-metal album covers, nor do their lyrics (\"Bites, kicks, heavy blows, nails, pincers, blunt saws \u2013 tell me what you want\") break new ground in hard-rock horror.Then again, Rammstein aren't like many other metal acts. Their last five albums have reached No 1 in the German charts, and Liebe ist f\u00fcr alle da has done the same in Switzerland, Austria, Denmark, the Czech Republic, Finland and the Netherlands. It was No 2 in France, No 13 in the US and reached No 16 in the UK when it was released last month.German officials are not among the group's fans. The order to remove the album from display was made under section 18 of the Youth Protection Act, which can only be invoked after a major institution \u2013 like the German youth welfare department \u2013 registers a complaint, according to Billboard. This is the first time a Rammstein album has been added to the list.On their Facebook page, Rammstein acknowledged the ruling and reminded fans to \"take proof of your age with you when you go to [buy the album]\". Presumably, this is especially true if you plan to buy the \"special edition\" of Liebe ist f\u00fcr alle da \u2013 a box set featuring six pink latex replicas of the band-members' penises.Although the Office for the Examination of Media Harmful to Young People only banned 116 albums last year, and 131 in 2007, they have ruled against 966 albums in 2009 so far. A spokesperson told Billboard this was due to a sharp increase in releases that \"glorify violence or are of a racist or pornographic nature\".", "tags": ["Rammstein", "Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Germany", "Metal", "Europe"], "title": "Rammstein album to be banned from display in Germany"},{"date": "2009-12-10T21:02:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Gordon Brown claimed a victory for the government tonight after securing the support of France and Germany for its supertax on City bonuses amid signs that major Wall Street firms were attempting to prevent a similar clampdown by the Obama administration.Goldman Sachs, the highest profile firm on Wall Street, became the first to blink in the face of the public outcry over its expected handout of \u00a314bn in pay and bonuses this year, by suspending cash bonuses for its top 30 executives.The decision, which will affect six of its executives in London, is expected to set the tone for rivals on Wall Street and could send ripples across the Atlantic. It is believed to be among the options being considered by Barclays as part of a review of remuneration.The warm international reception for Brown's bonus tax held out the prospect that the prime minister could secure a much-needed political boost, as he did when other countries followed his lead on recapitalising the banks last year.The momentum building up in Europe behind the clampdown on bonuses followed conversations between Treasury officials and those in G7 countries on Wednesday after the pre-budget report outlined the 50% tax on bankers' bonuses of more than \u00a325,000.President Nicolas Sarkozy of France decided to follow the UK in imposing the one-off penalties on bonuses over \u20ac27,000 after weeks of feuding between London and Paris over the regulation of European markets.He had met Brown in Brussels today on the fringes of an EU summit to bury the hatchet after co-authoring an article calling for a global deal on the way banks behave.Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany also sounded sympathetic to the British initiative. She said it was a \"charming idea\" and showed how others could \"learn from the City of London\".While a Downing Street spokesman appeared optimistic that Germany would also follow suit, senior German sources cautioned that despite the sympathetic noises from Berlin, Merkel would not, for legal reasons, be able to replicate the banker-bashing.Brown said: \"I think the French agreement to support what we are doing on one-off bonuses is very important. There is a one-off national insurance premium to be paid by the City, and that will happen in France as well.\"I believe other countries will now want to look at it and we have also an agreement in the international community to look at the relationship between banks and the service they owe to society. France is very supportive on that. The debate in the international community will move forward.\"Merkel prefers a Tobin-style tax on financial transactions, which Brown is attempting to persuade major leaders to endorse.In a letter to the other 26 EU heads of government, Brown said: \"The EU should work actively with our international partners to develop proposals to ensure a better balance of risks, rewards and responsibility between society and the financial sector.\"The US administration is opposed to a Tobin tax but is facing calls to copy the UK's payroll tax on bonuses \u2013 a move that has been greeted with concern in US banking circles.\"Goldman Sachs is worried. They're worried about the public reaction to bonuses they're paying in the worst recession since the war,\" said Alan Charney, programme director for US Action, a union-backed campaign group.The US treasury declined to comment today on its view of Britain's tax on bonuses, although a handful of left-leaning members of Congress have called for a similar levy in the US.Total bonus payouts on Wall Street are due to rise by 40% to $26bn this year. The Obama administration has appointed a so-called \"compensation tsar\", Kenneth Feinberg, to examine pay policies, although his remit extends only to banks being propped up by bailout funds.Steve Hall, a New York-based pay consultant who advises American companies on devising remuneration, said there was concern at the prospect of Brown's tax gaining international impetus after France's decision to follow Britain's lead: \"This is spreading \u2013 this is worse than swine flu.\"In lieu of cash payments, the Goldman executives will receive shares. Under enhanced \"clawback\" powers, the bank will be able to reclaim shares from any employees found to have inflicted \"material financial harm\" on its businesses. And in an unprecedented move for a major US bank, Goldman will put its remuneration policies before a yearly \"say on pay\" vote by shareholders at its annual meetings.A Goldman spokesman said the bank had taken public opinion into consideration: \"The motivation was that these are extraordinary times, that the firm has done well and that that has excited a great deal of comment and not a little criticism.\"Before the financial crisis hit, Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd Blankfein, was the best-paid bank boss on Wall Street, taking home $68.5m in 2007, while two of his top lieutenants earned $67.5m each. The US treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, recently pointed out that Goldman would have collapsed had it not been for the US government's support of the industry.President Obama will host a meeting at the White House on Monday with banking chiefs including the heads of Goldman, Citigroup and Bank of America, where pay policies are sure to be on the agenda.In the City, warnings that the tax would result in an exodus of star players were matched by those insisting that the supertax would be easy to dodge.", "tags": ["Executive pay and bonuses", "Banking", "Economic policy", "Pre-budget report", "Economics", "Goldman Sachs", "UK news", "France", "Germany", "US news", "World news", "Business", "Politics", "Tax", "Gordon Brown", "Pre-budget report 2009", "Europe"], "title": "France and Germany back UK bonus tax"},{"date": "2009-11-20T23:57:43Z", "country": "germany", "content": "British troops could be withdrawn from Germany by a future Tory government if other Nato states agreed to take over the UK's commitments there, the shadow defence secretary, Liam Fox, has said.Fox said it is \"no longer necessary\" to keep 20,000 military personnel in Germany, nearly 70 years after the end of the second world war. Ending the deployment would free up forces to carry out vital Nato operations outside Europe, he said.The number of soldiers in Germany has been scaled down over the years and their presence is now centred on Herford, near Hanover, where the 1st Armoured Division is based.In an interview with the Daily Telegraph, Fox signalled his determination to conduct a \"wholesale recasting of our foreign and defence policy \u2026 If other countries are willing to take up roles in continental defence, that leaves Britain and France able to take on expeditionary roles,\" he said.New Nato member states from eastern and central Europe, particularly Poland, should take over Britain's commitments in Germany, he added.A final decision will depend on negotiations with Nato allies, especially France, and on the Ministry of Defence's ability to handle the return of so many soldiers, for whom there is no accommodation in the UK. \"Finding a more creative diplomatic solution in Nato will be a priority for an incoming Conservative government.Fox said he had told civil servants to prepare plans for cutting the MoD's administrative costs by 25% \u2013 some \u00a33bn \u2013 by 2012.The Tories are also looking at fast-tracking younger commanders with combat experience in Iraq and Afghanistan to senior posts.", "tags": ["Military", "Defence policy", "Foreign policy", "Liam Fox", "Politics"], "title": "Tories may pull out troops from Germany"},{"date": "2009-10-14T17:33:34Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Pint-sized, plastic and the height of kitsch they may be, but no one in Germany would usually think twice about seeing a garden gnome, given there are 25 million of them across the country.But a battery of 1,250 of them that appeared on a square in a Bavarian town has caused an outcry, not least because their arms are in a Nazi salute.The artist Ottmar H\u00f6rl placed the gnomes in the town of Straubing, close to Munich, in an installation called Dance With the Devil.It follows controversy sparked by a single, golden Hitler-saluting gnome crafted by H\u00f6rl that prosecutors tried to remove from an art gallery in the summer on the grounds that Nazi symbols were prohibited in public.They later dropped the case, recognising that the piece was satirical, and the artist has since seen a run on requests for his creations.H\u00f6rl, 59, who has made other mass reproductions, including a group of praying dwarfs made in the image of Pope Benedict that provoked a similar row, said his gnomes were meant to highlight the rise of fascism in Germany and were a \"historical social gesture\".\"I want to show that there is far-right thought in the heads of all of us,\" he said, adding that gnomes were a particularly fitting method for conveying his message \"in a lighter and unpatronising way, at the same time as being strong enough to provoke a reaction.\"As long as I manage to polarise, I'm on the right track,\" he added.H\u00f6rl's 39cm plastic gnomes, which went on display today for five days, were financed by the local wing of the Social Democratic party (SPD).Hans Lohmeier, of the SPD, said the party agreed to cover the \u20ac20,000 cost of the installation after the town's cultural committee twice refused to do so. Summing up the local reaction, he said: \"There are some who say 'what do we want with this tripe?', others who say it's endangering their kids, but many others have understood what this is all about.\"", "tags": ["Germany", "Art", "Art and design", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Nazi gnomes cause outcry in Germany"},{"date": "2009-11-17T09:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Berliner Br\u00fccke, which spans the river Ruhr and the Rhein-Herne canal on the autobahn 59, offers a good view of the city. Here you can appreciate the extent of industrial activity still taking place in Duisburg. Looking west towards the Rhine you can see the harbour with a forest of swivelling cranes. North towards Hamborn there are a frightening number of stacks and cooling towers, most of them still active. And just to the right of these is the dome of the new mosque, the biggest in Germany.All the big names in steel are still here: Krupp, Mannesmann, Thyssen and Haniel. More steel is produced here than in almost any other city in the world. This has earned Duisburg its sobriquet The City of a Thousand Fires. Off the motorway, the city is a conglomeration of mainly dormitory suburbs consisting of rather dull streets.And yet living in Duisburg has some moments of serendipity and idiosyncrasy. The main part of the city is a narrow strip, about 4km in width stretching about 3km along the right bank of the Rhine. Bordering on the city and infiltrating it in places is the Duisburger Forest. It is nearly as long as the city itself.About a year after I arrived here, I learned that there was a holy well somewhere in the forest. One day I set out to find it. I walked for several hours through this magnificent wood consisting mainly of mature oak and beech. It had an almost Brothers Grimm quality. I had almost given up hope of finding the well when I met a woodcutter \u2013 she was snipping some twigs to decorate her apartment.Following her directions I soon found a marker pointing towards the well. I was parched with thirst and looked forward to a deep draught of pure limpid water. When I arrived I was confronted with two signs: One said Heiliger Brunnen (holy well), the other said Kein Trinkwasser (not potable). I decided to put my faith in the first one.Not far from the holy well is Der Ort f\u00fcr Waldgottesdienst, or the Place of Forest Worship. There was no building in sight. It is a simple clearing surrounded by 200-year-old trees, where in the summer religious services are held on the first Sunday of the month. This is where pagans get their money's worth as surprisingly, perhaps, there is a collection during the services.", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Germany", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: a quest for holy water ends well"},{"date": "2009-11-10T10:06:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Rammstein's Liebe ist f\u00fcr alle da, the No 2 album in Europe, can no longer be \"publicly displayed\" in German shops. According to the German ministry responsible for protecting children, the industrial-metal group's sixth studio album is \"harmful\" to young people with its provocative art, lyrics and song titles.The ruling by the Office for the Examination of Media Harmful to Young People takes effect tomorrow (11 November), from which point Rammstein's album may only be sold \"under the counter\" and one track, Ich tu dir weh (I Want to Hurt You), will be banned from live performance. The album can no longer be advertised or made accessible to people under the age of 18.Rammstein happily court controversy, and with their new album they haven't changed their tune so much as played it louder than usual. The album's cover \u2013 a painting featuring the band eating the flesh of a naked woman \u2013 isn't worse than many other heavy-metal album covers, nor do their lyrics (\"Bites, kicks, heavy blows, nails, pincers, blunt saws \u2013 tell me what you want\") break new ground in hard-rock horror.Then again, Rammstein aren't like many other metal acts. Their last five albums have reached No 1 in the German charts, and Liebe ist f\u00fcr alle da has done the same in Switzerland, Austria, Denmark, the Czech Republic, Finland and the Netherlands. It was No 2 in France, No 13 in the US and reached No 16 in the UK when it was released last month.German officials are not among the group's fans. The order to remove the album from display was made under section 18 of the Youth Protection Act, which can only be invoked after a major institution \u2013 like the German youth welfare department \u2013 registers a complaint, according to Billboard. This is the first time a Rammstein album has been added to the list.On their Facebook page, Rammstein acknowledged the ruling and reminded fans to \"take proof of your age with you when you go to [buy the album]\". Presumably, this is especially true if you plan to buy the \"special edition\" of Liebe ist f\u00fcr alle da \u2013 a box set featuring six pink latex replicas of the band-members' penises.Although the Office for the Examination of Media Harmful to Young People only banned 116 albums last year, and 131 in 2007, they have ruled against 966 albums in 2009 so far. A spokesperson told Billboard this was due to a sharp increase in releases that \"glorify violence or are of a racist or pornographic nature\".", "tags": ["Rammstein", "Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Germany", "Metal", "Europe"], "title": "Rammstein album to be banned from display in Germany"},{"date": "2009-11-04T10:27:29Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Business secretary Lord Mandelson has demanded urgent talks with General Motors following the US carmaker's decision to scrap its plans to sell Vauxhall.GM's surprise move last night has delighted UK union leaders but enraged German politicians and unions \u2013 who are threatening industrial action tomorrow in protest.The UK government has already indicated it may be prepared to offer GM financial support to help guarantee the long-term future of Britain's Vauxhall factories.\"I am keen for very early discussions with GM over their plans for the business and how they will affect British plants and workers,\" said Mandelson this morning. \"I have always said that if the right long-term sustainable solution is identified, then the government would be willing to support this.\"The German government called on GM to present a restructuring plan for its European arm, which includes Germany's Opel and Britain's Vauxhall brands, as soon as possible. It described the car giant's sudden U-turn as \"totally unacceptable\".Opel's works council has called for workers to down tools across Europe to protest against GM's decision not to sell Opel to the Magna-Sberbank consortium. Klaus Franz, Opel's top employee representative, said that brief \"warning strikes\" were set to begin tomorrow at Opel's four German plants, and would spread to other Opel locations in Europe on Friday.After a six-hour meeting in Detroit, the GM board decided last night to ditch the planned sale of its European business to Canadian car parts maker Magna International and its Russian partner Sberbank \u2013 a deal which had threatened thousands of jobs at factories across Europe.It is not clear what impact the decision will have on 5,500 workers employed by Vauxhall in the UK, mainly at Ellesmere Port and Luton. Workers arriving at the plants this morning expressed \"cautious optimism\" that the U-turn would be better for the long-term security of their jobs.Tony Woodley, joint leader of the Unite union, and a former Vauxhall worker himself, said the move was a \"fantastic decision\", adding: \"There's no logic in breaking up the company. I believe it is the right decision in spite of a good deal that we'd struck with Magna.\"It is the best decision for Britain and our plants. I am absolutely delighted that General Motors have finally done the right thing for them and for us.\"John Featherstone, Unite's convenor at Ellesmere Port, said he hoped Mandelson would now demand that GM gives guarantees about future production.About 2,200 workers are employed at Ellesmere Port, producing the Astra on two shifts, but Featherstone said he hoped the plant could step up to three shifts.GM's president and chief executive Fritz Henderson said encouraging global sales figures and an improvement in the European business environment had prompted them to change their minds about offloading the European business, which employs 55,000 people.The German government, which had brokered the Magna deal by agreeing to provide \u20ac4.5bn (\u00a34bn) in financial aid, is furious.It expects to get back the money it loaned GM to help loss-making Opel. Germany's economy minister, Rainer Bruederle, said in Berlin this morning: \"We will get the taxpayer's money back.\"Juergen Reinholz, economy minister of Thuringia, one of the German states that has Opel factories, said GM had signalled it would pay back a \u20ac1.5bn bridging loan for Opel by the end of the month.There had been speculation that the Magna deal meant that Vauxhall's factories were more at risk of closure than their German counterparts, even though the two UK plants are some of GM Europe's most efficient.Instead of selling the operation to Magna, GM intends to spend \u20ac3bn on restructuring the division \"in earnest\" \u2013 a process still likely to involve government aid and that may yet lead to significant job cuts.The U-turn was greeted phlegmatically by Magna which had hoped to transform itself from a components player to an all-round vehicle manufacturer. Magna's chairman, Frank Stronach, told Canada's Globe and Mail that \"life goes on\". He added: \"You take it as it comes and you go look for other opportunities.\"Monthly sales figures released yesterday provided an indication that business was improving. GM's US car sales in October were up 4% in comparison with the same month in 2008 \u2013 the first year-on-year rise since January last year.", "tags": ["Vauxhall", "Peter Mandelson", "General Motors", "Politics", "Business", "Germany", "UK news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Mandelson demands talks over Vauxhall's future as Germany seethes"},{"date": "2010-03-21T23:00:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The crisis facing the eurozone looks at first sight as German efficiency clashing with Portuguese, Irish, Greek and Spanish sloppiness. But\u00a0in many respects Germany has performed worse than the \"peripheral\" countries in\u00a0the last decade. The largest economy of the eurozone has been marked by slow growth, poor domestic demand, weak investment, high unemployment, and minuscule productivity gains.The only area in which Germany has excelled is exports, where it has chalked up large surpluses, while peripheral nations have had large deficits. But this imbalance is due to the skewed nature of the European monetary union. The eurozone has imposed a single monetary policy and tight fiscal policy. Member countries have applied systematic pressure on wages and working conditions across the zone; in Germany, wages have barely risen in real terms for 15 years, helped by the absence of unions in the old East Germany and easy access to the labour markets of other eastern countries.However, German investment has been weak, and productivity generally rose less than in peripheral countries. In\u00a0the past the exchange rates of these countries would have fallen, allowing them to improve their exports. But the euro makes this impossible.In addition, during the 2007-09 crisis, European banks faced big problems because of speculative investments in\u00a0mortgage-backed securities. The European Central Bank (ECB) provided abundant liquidity to banks and kept interest rates\u00a0very low. But when countries faced heavy borrowing needs, it behaved very\u00a0differently.Public debt rose in 2009 mostly because states rescued the financial system and tax revenue collapsed as the recession unfolded. Profligacy and public inefficiency had little to do with it. But, unlike banks, countries were left to fend for themselves. The ECB simply watched as financiers proceeded to bite their saviour by speculating on public debt.Dealing with the crisis so far has revealed policy chaos at the heart of the eurozone. Statements by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, her finance minister and others are incoherent and vacillating, not to mention replete with moral posturing. Does the German establishment comprehend what is at stake?The policy that has emerged almost by\u00a0default is to impose austerity on the peripheral nations, while refusing to lend fresh money to ease the transition. This is unsustainable for Greece and possibly for Portugal, Spain and others. Greece has applied an enormous squeeze on its workers, exacerbating the recession. The state gathers money through new taxes and wage cuts, and uses it to pay exorbitant rates of interest to the financial markets. The eurozone, meanwhile, tells Greeks to liberalise and reduce bureaucracy. This has no prospect of leading to sustained growth.A fundamental problem of the policy of austerity for the periphery is that it does not deal with the structural imbalance within the monetary union. As long as Germany stagnates and squeezes its workers, much of the eurozone will remain in trouble. Recent comments by the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, indicate though that the French establishment has begun to sense the danger to its own interests.And there are two strategic alternatives: the first is to aim for a \"good euro\". Several steps could be taken, for example, restoring some fiscal freedom to member states, expanding the European budget, instituting fiscal transfers from rich to poor, and introducing a minimum wage and unemployment insurance. The\u00a0ECB might also be allowed to buy state debt. The \"good euro\" relies on creating a radical cross-European political alliance, the prospects of which are slim. And it would probably weaken the international role of the euro.The other strategy is \"progressive exit\" from the eurozone. This more radical approach would involve devaluation, restructuring of foreign debt, and capital controls. The productive sector would benefit but the initial shock would be substantial. To protect the economy there would have to be public control of banks and other key areas of the economy, including transport, energy and telecommunications. Peripheral economies might then be shifted in a more productive direction \u2013 for example, supporting the transition to low-carbon activities.Finally, exit by the periphery might also help German workers appreciate the extent to which the eurozone has been tormenting them, leading to much-needed corrective action at the core.", "tags": ["European Central Bank", "European monetary union", "European Union", "Germany", "Greece", "Euro", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: a euro laggard | Costas Lapavitsas"},{"date": "2010-03-21T23:00:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The crisis facing the eurozone looks at first sight as German efficiency clashing with Portuguese, Irish, Greek and Spanish sloppiness. But\u00a0in many respects Germany has performed worse than the \"peripheral\" countries in\u00a0the last decade. The largest economy of the eurozone has been marked by slow growth, poor domestic demand, weak investment, high unemployment, and minuscule productivity gains.The only area in which Germany has excelled is exports, where it has chalked up large surpluses, while peripheral nations have had large deficits. But this imbalance is due to the skewed nature of the European monetary union. The eurozone has imposed a single monetary policy and tight fiscal policy. Member countries have applied systematic pressure on wages and working conditions across the zone; in Germany, wages have barely risen in real terms for 15 years, helped by the absence of unions in the old East Germany and easy access to the labour markets of other eastern countries.However, German investment has been weak, and productivity generally rose less than in peripheral countries. In\u00a0the past the exchange rates of these countries would have fallen, allowing them to improve their exports. But the euro makes this impossible.In addition, during the 2007-09 crisis, European banks faced big problems because of speculative investments in\u00a0mortgage-backed securities. The European Central Bank (ECB) provided abundant liquidity to banks and kept interest rates\u00a0very low. But when countries faced heavy borrowing needs, it behaved very\u00a0differently.Public debt rose in 2009 mostly because states rescued the financial system and tax revenue collapsed as the recession unfolded. Profligacy and public inefficiency had little to do with it. But, unlike banks, countries were left to fend for themselves. The ECB simply watched as financiers proceeded to bite their saviour by speculating on public debt.Dealing with the crisis so far has revealed policy chaos at the heart of the eurozone. Statements by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, her finance minister and others are incoherent and vacillating, not to mention replete with moral posturing. Does the German establishment comprehend what is at stake?The policy that has emerged almost by\u00a0default is to impose austerity on the peripheral nations, while refusing to lend fresh money to ease the transition. This is unsustainable for Greece and possibly for Portugal, Spain and others. Greece has applied an enormous squeeze on its workers, exacerbating the recession. The state gathers money through new taxes and wage cuts, and uses it to pay exorbitant rates of interest to the financial markets. The eurozone, meanwhile, tells Greeks to liberalise and reduce bureaucracy. This has no prospect of leading to sustained growth.A fundamental problem of the policy of austerity for the periphery is that it does not deal with the structural imbalance within the monetary union. As long as Germany stagnates and squeezes its workers, much of the eurozone will remain in trouble. Recent comments by the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, indicate though that the French establishment has begun to sense the danger to its own interests.And there are two strategic alternatives: the first is to aim for a \"good euro\". Several steps could be taken, for example, restoring some fiscal freedom to member states, expanding the European budget, instituting fiscal transfers from rich to poor, and introducing a minimum wage and unemployment insurance. The\u00a0ECB might also be allowed to buy state debt. The \"good euro\" relies on creating a radical cross-European political alliance, the prospects of which are slim. And it would probably weaken the international role of the euro.The other strategy is \"progressive exit\" from the eurozone. This more radical approach would involve devaluation, restructuring of foreign debt, and capital controls. The productive sector would benefit but the initial shock would be substantial. To protect the economy there would have to be public control of banks and other key areas of the economy, including transport, energy and telecommunications. Peripheral economies might then be shifted in a more productive direction \u2013 for example, supporting the transition to low-carbon activities.Finally, exit by the periphery might also help German workers appreciate the extent to which the eurozone has been tormenting them, leading to much-needed corrective action at the core.", "tags": ["European Central Bank", "European monetary union", "European Union", "Germany", "Greece", "Euro", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: a euro laggard | Costas Lapavitsas"},{"date": "2010-02-11T23:33:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Resistance in Germany towards \u00adhelping bail out Greece, its troubled eurozone partner, was growing today amid fears that financial assistance for \u00adAthens would be hard to justify to the German voter.\"Germany is going to have to \u00adshoulder Greece's debt burden \u2026 but no one dares tell the German taxpayer,\" wrote Henryk Muller in the online version of Der Spiegel.Some commentators suggested calls would grow for the return of the beloved currency the Germans relinquished just over a decade ago, in return for economic stability in Europe.\"At this rate the Germans will wish the return of the deutschmark,\" said the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung in an acerbic editorial, stressing that Germany had not signed up to the euro \"in order that it could pay for Greece's debts \u2026 this is not how they sold the euro to the Germans\". Most German politicians were cautious about \u00adcriticising Greece for its poor public spending management.But within the Free Democrats (FDP), the junior partner in Angela Merkel's coalition government, the dissent was loudest.\"We cannot expect the citizens, whose taxes are already too high, to go along with supporting the erroneous financial and budget policy of other states of the eurozone,\" said \u00adKarl-Ludwig Thiele, the vice-chief whip of the FDP, adding that Greece's \u00adfinancial crisis was \"not a result of the economic crisis, but self-made\".Addressing the German public's \u00adconcerns about what the effect on German finances might be if it helped Greece by agreeing to buy Greek debt, Die Welt said \"it would have a negative impact on Germany's \u00adcreditworthiness\", and could end up \"costing every \u00adGerman taxpayer an extra 40 euros this year\".An indication of how truly stoked German fears were was the FAZ's \u00adconcern that Germany may even end up paying for Greece's retirees.\"The Greeks go onto the streets to protest against the increase of the \u00adpension age from 61 to 63.\"Does that mean that the Germans should in future extend the working age from 67 to 69, so that the Greeks can enjoy their \u00adretirement?\"Several German \u00adeconomists warned that the collapse of the euro was a possibility.\"If Greece is bust, it could bring the whole euro system down,\" said \u00adfinancial markets expert Rudolf Hickel, of the institute for labour and \u00adeconomy at the University of Bremen.\"There are enough people \u00adspeculating on the markets about the possible bankruptcy of Greece, and once Greece goes, they would then turn their attentions to Spain and Italy, and Germany and France would be forced to step in once again,\" he said.Reports that prices of imported goods would probably rise over the next few weeks if the euro continued to weaken were also rife.\"The less the euro is worth, the more we'll have to pay for petrol, heating oil and gas,\" wrote a commentator in the tabloid Bild under the heading: The desperate fight to save the euro has begun.On the positive side though, the paper suggested that demand for \u00adGerman exports, which has taken a savage hit during the financial crisis because they have been too expensive abroad, would rise as the euro weakened.", "tags": ["Euro", "Germany", "Greece", "Business", "World news", "Economics", "France", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Greek debt crisis: the view from Germany"},{"date": "2010-03-21T23:00:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The crisis facing the eurozone looks at first sight as German efficiency clashing with Portuguese, Irish, Greek and Spanish sloppiness. But\u00a0in many respects Germany has performed worse than the \"peripheral\" countries in\u00a0the last decade. The largest economy of the eurozone has been marked by slow growth, poor domestic demand, weak investment, high unemployment, and minuscule productivity gains.The only area in which Germany has excelled is exports, where it has chalked up large surpluses, while peripheral nations have had large deficits. But this imbalance is due to the skewed nature of the European monetary union. The eurozone has imposed a single monetary policy and tight fiscal policy. Member countries have applied systematic pressure on wages and working conditions across the zone; in Germany, wages have barely risen in real terms for 15 years, helped by the absence of unions in the old East Germany and easy access to the labour markets of other eastern countries.However, German investment has been weak, and productivity generally rose less than in peripheral countries. In\u00a0the past the exchange rates of these countries would have fallen, allowing them to improve their exports. But the euro makes this impossible.In addition, during the 2007-09 crisis, European banks faced big problems because of speculative investments in\u00a0mortgage-backed securities. The European Central Bank (ECB) provided abundant liquidity to banks and kept interest rates\u00a0very low. But when countries faced heavy borrowing needs, it behaved very\u00a0differently.Public debt rose in 2009 mostly because states rescued the financial system and tax revenue collapsed as the recession unfolded. Profligacy and public inefficiency had little to do with it. But, unlike banks, countries were left to fend for themselves. The ECB simply watched as financiers proceeded to bite their saviour by speculating on public debt.Dealing with the crisis so far has revealed policy chaos at the heart of the eurozone. Statements by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, her finance minister and others are incoherent and vacillating, not to mention replete with moral posturing. Does the German establishment comprehend what is at stake?The policy that has emerged almost by\u00a0default is to impose austerity on the peripheral nations, while refusing to lend fresh money to ease the transition. This is unsustainable for Greece and possibly for Portugal, Spain and others. Greece has applied an enormous squeeze on its workers, exacerbating the recession. The state gathers money through new taxes and wage cuts, and uses it to pay exorbitant rates of interest to the financial markets. The eurozone, meanwhile, tells Greeks to liberalise and reduce bureaucracy. This has no prospect of leading to sustained growth.A fundamental problem of the policy of austerity for the periphery is that it does not deal with the structural imbalance within the monetary union. As long as Germany stagnates and squeezes its workers, much of the eurozone will remain in trouble. Recent comments by the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, indicate though that the French establishment has begun to sense the danger to its own interests.And there are two strategic alternatives: the first is to aim for a \"good euro\". Several steps could be taken, for example, restoring some fiscal freedom to member states, expanding the European budget, instituting fiscal transfers from rich to poor, and introducing a minimum wage and unemployment insurance. The\u00a0ECB might also be allowed to buy state debt. The \"good euro\" relies on creating a radical cross-European political alliance, the prospects of which are slim. And it would probably weaken the international role of the euro.The other strategy is \"progressive exit\" from the eurozone. This more radical approach would involve devaluation, restructuring of foreign debt, and capital controls. The productive sector would benefit but the initial shock would be substantial. To protect the economy there would have to be public control of banks and other key areas of the economy, including transport, energy and telecommunications. Peripheral economies might then be shifted in a more productive direction \u2013 for example, supporting the transition to low-carbon activities.Finally, exit by the periphery might also help German workers appreciate the extent to which the eurozone has been tormenting them, leading to much-needed corrective action at the core.", "tags": ["European Central Bank", "European monetary union", "European Union", "Germany", "Greece", "Euro", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: a euro laggard | Costas Lapavitsas"},{"date": "2010-02-11T23:33:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Resistance in Germany towards \u00adhelping bail out Greece, its troubled eurozone partner, was growing today amid fears that financial assistance for \u00adAthens would be hard to justify to the German voter.\"Germany is going to have to \u00adshoulder Greece's debt burden \u2026 but no one dares tell the German taxpayer,\" wrote Henryk Muller in the online version of Der Spiegel.Some commentators suggested calls would grow for the return of the beloved currency the Germans relinquished just over a decade ago, in return for economic stability in Europe.\"At this rate the Germans will wish the return of the deutschmark,\" said the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung in an acerbic editorial, stressing that Germany had not signed up to the euro \"in order that it could pay for Greece's debts \u2026 this is not how they sold the euro to the Germans\". Most German politicians were cautious about \u00adcriticising Greece for its poor public spending management.But within the Free Democrats (FDP), the junior partner in Angela Merkel's coalition government, the dissent was loudest.\"We cannot expect the citizens, whose taxes are already too high, to go along with supporting the erroneous financial and budget policy of other states of the eurozone,\" said \u00adKarl-Ludwig Thiele, the vice-chief whip of the FDP, adding that Greece's \u00adfinancial crisis was \"not a result of the economic crisis, but self-made\".Addressing the German public's \u00adconcerns about what the effect on German finances might be if it helped Greece by agreeing to buy Greek debt, Die Welt said \"it would have a negative impact on Germany's \u00adcreditworthiness\", and could end up \"costing every \u00adGerman taxpayer an extra 40 euros this year\".An indication of how truly stoked German fears were was the FAZ's \u00adconcern that Germany may even end up paying for Greece's retirees.\"The Greeks go onto the streets to protest against the increase of the \u00adpension age from 61 to 63.\"Does that mean that the Germans should in future extend the working age from 67 to 69, so that the Greeks can enjoy their \u00adretirement?\"Several German \u00adeconomists warned that the collapse of the euro was a possibility.\"If Greece is bust, it could bring the whole euro system down,\" said \u00adfinancial markets expert Rudolf Hickel, of the institute for labour and \u00adeconomy at the University of Bremen.\"There are enough people \u00adspeculating on the markets about the possible bankruptcy of Greece, and once Greece goes, they would then turn their attentions to Spain and Italy, and Germany and France would be forced to step in once again,\" he said.Reports that prices of imported goods would probably rise over the next few weeks if the euro continued to weaken were also rife.\"The less the euro is worth, the more we'll have to pay for petrol, heating oil and gas,\" wrote a commentator in the tabloid Bild under the heading: The desperate fight to save the euro has begun.On the positive side though, the paper suggested that demand for \u00adGerman exports, which has taken a savage hit during the financial crisis because they have been too expensive abroad, would rise as the euro weakened.", "tags": ["Euro", "Germany", "Greece", "Business", "World news", "Economics", "France", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Greek debt crisis: the view from Germany"},{"date": "2010-02-28T21:00:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany is planning to stop what it sees as a British campaign to dominate European foreign policy-making under Lady Catherine Ashton, the Guardian can disclose.Amid growing criticism across the EU of the performance of Baroness Ashton of Upholland, the EU's new high representative for foreign and security policy, Berlin and Paris are alarmed at the prominence of British officials in the new EU diplomatic service being formed under Ashton.A confidential German foreign ministry document analysing the creation of the EU's new diplomatic service, seen by the Guardian, has concluded that Britain has grabbed an \"excessive\" and \"over-proportionate\" role.Berlin and Paris are anxious that they are losing the battle to win key positions in the new service which is to be the main vehicle for projecting European power globally under the Lisbon Treaty.Brussels is currently embroiled in tense negotiations to establish its first worldwide diplomatic corps and integrated foreign policy apparatus, known as the European External Action Service (EEAS). It is to be led by Lady Ashton, the EU's new high representative for foreign and security policy.\"Excessive GB participation [in the EEAS] is evident,\" says the German document. \"Over-proportionate GB influence on the establishment [of the EEAS] and staffing is to be avoided.\"\"There's clearly an anxiety in Paris and Berlin that the overall balance will be satisfactory,\" said Thomas Klau, a German analyst who heads the Paris office of the European Council on Foreign Relations. \"No one has anything against good British candidates, but if it looks like a takeover, it's different.\"With Ashton coming under increasing attack across the EU for what is seen as weak and lacklustre performance as the EU's first foreign and security policy chief, Berlin and Paris fear they are being out-manoeuvred in the tussle for the posts which will shape the new regime.The Germans and the French point to the predominance of British figures in many of the pivotal positions in the new service. Senior sources complain that of the 12 staff appointed to Ashton's office, four are British, including her chief of staff and her private secretary.Additionally, British officials are conspicuous in heading several of the key departments crucial to the operation of the new service. These include the head of the EU's intelligence cell, its military staff, the official recently appointed to overseeing recruitment to what are to be more than 130 EU embassies abroad, as well as Robert Cooper, the EU's top foreign and security policy strategist.\"The inroads to the decision-taking level are easier for the UK than for anyone else,\" said a former German diplomat closely following the politics behind the building of the EEAS. \"A lot of people are very unhappy. But the French are the only ones doing something about this British dominance.\"A European Commission official said: \"What are the French really complaining about? Everything comes back to the British, that it's all a British plot.\"Another EU official said: \"It's a very highly charged political environment. It's getting very messy.\" The diplomats and officials declined to be named.The French contend that the inexperienced Ashton is being schooled in policy-making by the Foreign Office. Diplomats and officials in Brussels also see Britain's hand in one of Ashton's first appointments, made last week. She named Vygaudas U\u0161ackas, a former Lithuanian foreign minister and ambassador in London, as the EU's special envoy to Afghanistan. He was widely seen as the UK's favoured contender after Britain withdrew its own candidate because it secured the post of Nato envoy in Kabul.The Germans are also increasingly unhappy at what they see as the erosion of their influence and being cut out of decision-taking.The EEAS, like Ashton's job, was created by the Lisbon treaty which came into force late last year and is aimed at streamlining EU decision-taking and enabling it to exercise greater political clout around the world through Ashton's \"single voice\" articulating common foreign and security policy.The EEAS is to supply the foreign policy machinery, converting 136 European Commission offices around the world into EU embassies.The Germans, who are the said sources, were incensed at not being consulted when Ashton turned 54 commission offices into EU embassies at the beginning of the year.Ashton has to decide and obtain agreement by the end of April on the fundamental structures, staffing, and budgets for the new service, not least because there are fears across Europe that a UK conservative government may enter office in May and could at best seek to delay its establishment.", "tags": ["European commission", "European Union", "Lady Ashton", "Germany", "France", "UK news", "Politics", "Europe"], "title": "Germany and France dispute Lady Ashton's 'excessive' EU powers"},{"date": "2010-03-21T23:00:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The crisis facing the eurozone looks at first sight as German efficiency clashing with Portuguese, Irish, Greek and Spanish sloppiness. But\u00a0in many respects Germany has performed worse than the \"peripheral\" countries in\u00a0the last decade. The largest economy of the eurozone has been marked by slow growth, poor domestic demand, weak investment, high unemployment, and minuscule productivity gains.The only area in which Germany has excelled is exports, where it has chalked up large surpluses, while peripheral nations have had large deficits. But this imbalance is due to the skewed nature of the European monetary union. The eurozone has imposed a single monetary policy and tight fiscal policy. Member countries have applied systematic pressure on wages and working conditions across the zone; in Germany, wages have barely risen in real terms for 15 years, helped by the absence of unions in the old East Germany and easy access to the labour markets of other eastern countries.However, German investment has been weak, and productivity generally rose less than in peripheral countries. In\u00a0the past the exchange rates of these countries would have fallen, allowing them to improve their exports. But the euro makes this impossible.In addition, during the 2007-09 crisis, European banks faced big problems because of speculative investments in\u00a0mortgage-backed securities. The European Central Bank (ECB) provided abundant liquidity to banks and kept interest rates\u00a0very low. But when countries faced heavy borrowing needs, it behaved very\u00a0differently.Public debt rose in 2009 mostly because states rescued the financial system and tax revenue collapsed as the recession unfolded. Profligacy and public inefficiency had little to do with it. But, unlike banks, countries were left to fend for themselves. The ECB simply watched as financiers proceeded to bite their saviour by speculating on public debt.Dealing with the crisis so far has revealed policy chaos at the heart of the eurozone. Statements by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, her finance minister and others are incoherent and vacillating, not to mention replete with moral posturing. Does the German establishment comprehend what is at stake?The policy that has emerged almost by\u00a0default is to impose austerity on the peripheral nations, while refusing to lend fresh money to ease the transition. This is unsustainable for Greece and possibly for Portugal, Spain and others. Greece has applied an enormous squeeze on its workers, exacerbating the recession. The state gathers money through new taxes and wage cuts, and uses it to pay exorbitant rates of interest to the financial markets. The eurozone, meanwhile, tells Greeks to liberalise and reduce bureaucracy. This has no prospect of leading to sustained growth.A fundamental problem of the policy of austerity for the periphery is that it does not deal with the structural imbalance within the monetary union. As long as Germany stagnates and squeezes its workers, much of the eurozone will remain in trouble. Recent comments by the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, indicate though that the French establishment has begun to sense the danger to its own interests.And there are two strategic alternatives: the first is to aim for a \"good euro\". Several steps could be taken, for example, restoring some fiscal freedom to member states, expanding the European budget, instituting fiscal transfers from rich to poor, and introducing a minimum wage and unemployment insurance. The\u00a0ECB might also be allowed to buy state debt. The \"good euro\" relies on creating a radical cross-European political alliance, the prospects of which are slim. And it would probably weaken the international role of the euro.The other strategy is \"progressive exit\" from the eurozone. This more radical approach would involve devaluation, restructuring of foreign debt, and capital controls. The productive sector would benefit but the initial shock would be substantial. To protect the economy there would have to be public control of banks and other key areas of the economy, including transport, energy and telecommunications. Peripheral economies might then be shifted in a more productive direction \u2013 for example, supporting the transition to low-carbon activities.Finally, exit by the periphery might also help German workers appreciate the extent to which the eurozone has been tormenting them, leading to much-needed corrective action at the core.", "tags": ["European Central Bank", "European monetary union", "European Union", "Germany", "Greece", "Euro", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: a euro laggard | Costas Lapavitsas"},{"date": "2010-02-11T23:33:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Resistance in Germany towards \u00adhelping bail out Greece, its troubled eurozone partner, was growing today amid fears that financial assistance for \u00adAthens would be hard to justify to the German voter.\"Germany is going to have to \u00adshoulder Greece's debt burden \u2026 but no one dares tell the German taxpayer,\" wrote Henryk Muller in the online version of Der Spiegel.Some commentators suggested calls would grow for the return of the beloved currency the Germans relinquished just over a decade ago, in return for economic stability in Europe.\"At this rate the Germans will wish the return of the deutschmark,\" said the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung in an acerbic editorial, stressing that Germany had not signed up to the euro \"in order that it could pay for Greece's debts \u2026 this is not how they sold the euro to the Germans\". Most German politicians were cautious about \u00adcriticising Greece for its poor public spending management.But within the Free Democrats (FDP), the junior partner in Angela Merkel's coalition government, the dissent was loudest.\"We cannot expect the citizens, whose taxes are already too high, to go along with supporting the erroneous financial and budget policy of other states of the eurozone,\" said \u00adKarl-Ludwig Thiele, the vice-chief whip of the FDP, adding that Greece's \u00adfinancial crisis was \"not a result of the economic crisis, but self-made\".Addressing the German public's \u00adconcerns about what the effect on German finances might be if it helped Greece by agreeing to buy Greek debt, Die Welt said \"it would have a negative impact on Germany's \u00adcreditworthiness\", and could end up \"costing every \u00adGerman taxpayer an extra 40 euros this year\".An indication of how truly stoked German fears were was the FAZ's \u00adconcern that Germany may even end up paying for Greece's retirees.\"The Greeks go onto the streets to protest against the increase of the \u00adpension age from 61 to 63.\"Does that mean that the Germans should in future extend the working age from 67 to 69, so that the Greeks can enjoy their \u00adretirement?\"Several German \u00adeconomists warned that the collapse of the euro was a possibility.\"If Greece is bust, it could bring the whole euro system down,\" said \u00adfinancial markets expert Rudolf Hickel, of the institute for labour and \u00adeconomy at the University of Bremen.\"There are enough people \u00adspeculating on the markets about the possible bankruptcy of Greece, and once Greece goes, they would then turn their attentions to Spain and Italy, and Germany and France would be forced to step in once again,\" he said.Reports that prices of imported goods would probably rise over the next few weeks if the euro continued to weaken were also rife.\"The less the euro is worth, the more we'll have to pay for petrol, heating oil and gas,\" wrote a commentator in the tabloid Bild under the heading: The desperate fight to save the euro has begun.On the positive side though, the paper suggested that demand for \u00adGerman exports, which has taken a savage hit during the financial crisis because they have been too expensive abroad, would rise as the euro weakened.", "tags": ["Euro", "Germany", "Greece", "Business", "World news", "Economics", "France", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Greek debt crisis: the view from Germany"},{"date": "2010-02-28T21:00:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany is planning to stop what it sees as a British campaign to dominate European foreign policy-making under Lady Catherine Ashton, the Guardian can disclose.Amid growing criticism across the EU of the performance of Baroness Ashton of Upholland, the EU's new high representative for foreign and security policy, Berlin and Paris are alarmed at the prominence of British officials in the new EU diplomatic service being formed under Ashton.A confidential German foreign ministry document analysing the creation of the EU's new diplomatic service, seen by the Guardian, has concluded that Britain has grabbed an \"excessive\" and \"over-proportionate\" role.Berlin and Paris are anxious that they are losing the battle to win key positions in the new service which is to be the main vehicle for projecting European power globally under the Lisbon Treaty.Brussels is currently embroiled in tense negotiations to establish its first worldwide diplomatic corps and integrated foreign policy apparatus, known as the European External Action Service (EEAS). It is to be led by Lady Ashton, the EU's new high representative for foreign and security policy.\"Excessive GB participation [in the EEAS] is evident,\" says the German document. \"Over-proportionate GB influence on the establishment [of the EEAS] and staffing is to be avoided.\"\"There's clearly an anxiety in Paris and Berlin that the overall balance will be satisfactory,\" said Thomas Klau, a German analyst who heads the Paris office of the European Council on Foreign Relations. \"No one has anything against good British candidates, but if it looks like a takeover, it's different.\"With Ashton coming under increasing attack across the EU for what is seen as weak and lacklustre performance as the EU's first foreign and security policy chief, Berlin and Paris fear they are being out-manoeuvred in the tussle for the posts which will shape the new regime.The Germans and the French point to the predominance of British figures in many of the pivotal positions in the new service. Senior sources complain that of the 12 staff appointed to Ashton's office, four are British, including her chief of staff and her private secretary.Additionally, British officials are conspicuous in heading several of the key departments crucial to the operation of the new service. These include the head of the EU's intelligence cell, its military staff, the official recently appointed to overseeing recruitment to what are to be more than 130 EU embassies abroad, as well as Robert Cooper, the EU's top foreign and security policy strategist.\"The inroads to the decision-taking level are easier for the UK than for anyone else,\" said a former German diplomat closely following the politics behind the building of the EEAS. \"A lot of people are very unhappy. But the French are the only ones doing something about this British dominance.\"A European Commission official said: \"What are the French really complaining about? Everything comes back to the British, that it's all a British plot.\"Another EU official said: \"It's a very highly charged political environment. It's getting very messy.\" The diplomats and officials declined to be named.The French contend that the inexperienced Ashton is being schooled in policy-making by the Foreign Office. Diplomats and officials in Brussels also see Britain's hand in one of Ashton's first appointments, made last week. She named Vygaudas U\u0161ackas, a former Lithuanian foreign minister and ambassador in London, as the EU's special envoy to Afghanistan. He was widely seen as the UK's favoured contender after Britain withdrew its own candidate because it secured the post of Nato envoy in Kabul.The Germans are also increasingly unhappy at what they see as the erosion of their influence and being cut out of decision-taking.The EEAS, like Ashton's job, was created by the Lisbon treaty which came into force late last year and is aimed at streamlining EU decision-taking and enabling it to exercise greater political clout around the world through Ashton's \"single voice\" articulating common foreign and security policy.The EEAS is to supply the foreign policy machinery, converting 136 European Commission offices around the world into EU embassies.The Germans, who are the said sources, were incensed at not being consulted when Ashton turned 54 commission offices into EU embassies at the beginning of the year.Ashton has to decide and obtain agreement by the end of April on the fundamental structures, staffing, and budgets for the new service, not least because there are fears across Europe that a UK conservative government may enter office in May and could at best seek to delay its establishment.", "tags": ["European commission", "European Union", "Lady Ashton", "Germany", "France", "UK news", "Politics", "Europe"], "title": "Germany and France dispute Lady Ashton's 'excessive' EU powers"},{"date": "2010-02-28T00:45:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Throughout the German occupation of Greece, the square in front of my home was taken over by the Wehrmacht. Streaming into Athens on the morning of 27 April 1941, the tanks, motorbikes and cars of the 6th Armoured Division headed for the city centre and, in particular, the ancient Plaka district. Within an hour, the swastika had been hoisted from the Acropolis.It was thus that the square was turned into an army depot, German guards posted at each of its four corners. My neighbour, Lina, who was 12 at the time, remembers German officers taking over the top floor of the building next to the neoclassical house she lives in \u2013 which happens to be my home. On the floor below lived Mr and Mrs Michaelides, with their three children. \"Incredibly, they stayed throughout the war,\" she recalled. \"I was always scared for them, my mother always made sure I called them by their first names, because they were Jews.\"Last week those memories returned with the outbreak of a very different sort of war. \"Economic Nazism threatens Europe,\" proclaimed one newspaper, lashing out at German media jibes that the Greeks, being \"cheats\", should pay for allowing their debt-ridden country to reach the point of bankruptcy.\"Racist frenzy and calumny against Greece,\" railed another after a German weekly saw fit to cover its front page with an image of Venus de Milo gesturing obscenely under the headline \"frauds in the Euro-family\".The war of words has worsened not so much as a result of an impending invasion but an interview given by Theodore Pangalos, the Greek deputy prime minister, to the BBC. When my colleague Malcolm Brabant went to see the septuagenarian, he intended to discuss the mounting hostility Greece's debt crisis has triggered towards the EU. He did not think he would be treated to a tirade about the devastation Nazi Germany had wrought on the Greek economy. But after declaring \"we don't want to open the chapter of the Second World War,\" Pangalos could not help himself: \"There is an issue that stands there,\" he said, before lunging into a vitriolic description of the role Hitler's forces had played in plundering Greece \"of gold and money\".There was the issue of war reparations, too; after borrowing the money \"using violence\" they had failed to return the ill-gotten gains and the Greek economy was still suffering: \"They shouldn't complain much about [us] stealing and not being very specific about details.\"This is not the first time Pangalos has upset Germany. In 1993, as foreign minister, he declared that it behaved as \"a bestial giant with a child's brain\". But, although prone to the odd clanger, Pangalos also has his finger on the pulse of the nation.For older Greeks last week, his only crime was that he did not go far enough. It wasn't just the stolen loot, plundering of homes and factories, crippling of the economy, or destruction of the countryside and burning of villages and schools. It was the sheer brutality of a regime that allowed some 300,000 to die from starvation after it requisitioned food, killed at least 100,000 in reprisals following mass resistance, and with frightening efficiency virtually wiped out Greece's entire Jewish community.Like so many others of her generation, Lina, my neighbour, is still haunted by the howls of the hungry. In 1941, when famine took its biggest toll, they would line the streets, hands outstretched over swollen stomachs. \"My father died of famine,\" she says matter-of-factly. \"The Germans kept all the food.\"The bravery of the Greeks was not lost on the F\u00fchrer \u2013 or Winston Churchill, who would famously pronounce that \"the heroes fight like Greeks\" after their extraordinary defeat of Mussolini's forces in 1940.Not long ago I had the honour to shake the hand of Manolis Glezos, who as an 18-year-old tore down the swastika from the Acropolis in the first act of defiance. A lifelong fighter with leftist ideals, he would go on, after the war, to spend nearly three decades in prison under authoritarian right-wing rule. \"Removing the swastika was an act of resistance for all of Europe,\" he said, eyes glinting. \"Please don't ask me any more.\"Today it is not the Wehrmacht but German tourists outside my door.Ever chipper, the white-haired Glezos is the first to say they should be here. But, like so many others, he is also living proof that the wounds of Hitler's Greece have not fully healed even after so many years.", "tags": ["Greece", "Germany", "Euro", "European Union", "Second world war", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Bitter legacy behind war of words between Greece and Germany"},{"date": "2010-03-21T23:00:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The crisis facing the eurozone looks at first sight as German efficiency clashing with Portuguese, Irish, Greek and Spanish sloppiness. But\u00a0in many respects Germany has performed worse than the \"peripheral\" countries in\u00a0the last decade. The largest economy of the eurozone has been marked by slow growth, poor domestic demand, weak investment, high unemployment, and minuscule productivity gains.The only area in which Germany has excelled is exports, where it has chalked up large surpluses, while peripheral nations have had large deficits. But this imbalance is due to the skewed nature of the European monetary union. The eurozone has imposed a single monetary policy and tight fiscal policy. Member countries have applied systematic pressure on wages and working conditions across the zone; in Germany, wages have barely risen in real terms for 15 years, helped by the absence of unions in the old East Germany and easy access to the labour markets of other eastern countries.However, German investment has been weak, and productivity generally rose less than in peripheral countries. In\u00a0the past the exchange rates of these countries would have fallen, allowing them to improve their exports. But the euro makes this impossible.In addition, during the 2007-09 crisis, European banks faced big problems because of speculative investments in\u00a0mortgage-backed securities. The European Central Bank (ECB) provided abundant liquidity to banks and kept interest rates\u00a0very low. But when countries faced heavy borrowing needs, it behaved very\u00a0differently.Public debt rose in 2009 mostly because states rescued the financial system and tax revenue collapsed as the recession unfolded. Profligacy and public inefficiency had little to do with it. But, unlike banks, countries were left to fend for themselves. The ECB simply watched as financiers proceeded to bite their saviour by speculating on public debt.Dealing with the crisis so far has revealed policy chaos at the heart of the eurozone. Statements by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, her finance minister and others are incoherent and vacillating, not to mention replete with moral posturing. Does the German establishment comprehend what is at stake?The policy that has emerged almost by\u00a0default is to impose austerity on the peripheral nations, while refusing to lend fresh money to ease the transition. This is unsustainable for Greece and possibly for Portugal, Spain and others. Greece has applied an enormous squeeze on its workers, exacerbating the recession. The state gathers money through new taxes and wage cuts, and uses it to pay exorbitant rates of interest to the financial markets. The eurozone, meanwhile, tells Greeks to liberalise and reduce bureaucracy. This has no prospect of leading to sustained growth.A fundamental problem of the policy of austerity for the periphery is that it does not deal with the structural imbalance within the monetary union. As long as Germany stagnates and squeezes its workers, much of the eurozone will remain in trouble. Recent comments by the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, indicate though that the French establishment has begun to sense the danger to its own interests.And there are two strategic alternatives: the first is to aim for a \"good euro\". Several steps could be taken, for example, restoring some fiscal freedom to member states, expanding the European budget, instituting fiscal transfers from rich to poor, and introducing a minimum wage and unemployment insurance. The\u00a0ECB might also be allowed to buy state debt. The \"good euro\" relies on creating a radical cross-European political alliance, the prospects of which are slim. And it would probably weaken the international role of the euro.The other strategy is \"progressive exit\" from the eurozone. This more radical approach would involve devaluation, restructuring of foreign debt, and capital controls. The productive sector would benefit but the initial shock would be substantial. To protect the economy there would have to be public control of banks and other key areas of the economy, including transport, energy and telecommunications. Peripheral economies might then be shifted in a more productive direction \u2013 for example, supporting the transition to low-carbon activities.Finally, exit by the periphery might also help German workers appreciate the extent to which the eurozone has been tormenting them, leading to much-needed corrective action at the core.", "tags": ["European Central Bank", "European monetary union", "European Union", "Germany", "Greece", "Euro", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: a euro laggard | Costas Lapavitsas"},{"date": "2010-02-11T23:33:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Resistance in Germany towards \u00adhelping bail out Greece, its troubled eurozone partner, was growing today amid fears that financial assistance for \u00adAthens would be hard to justify to the German voter.\"Germany is going to have to \u00adshoulder Greece's debt burden \u2026 but no one dares tell the German taxpayer,\" wrote Henryk Muller in the online version of Der Spiegel.Some commentators suggested calls would grow for the return of the beloved currency the Germans relinquished just over a decade ago, in return for economic stability in Europe.\"At this rate the Germans will wish the return of the deutschmark,\" said the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung in an acerbic editorial, stressing that Germany had not signed up to the euro \"in order that it could pay for Greece's debts \u2026 this is not how they sold the euro to the Germans\". Most German politicians were cautious about \u00adcriticising Greece for its poor public spending management.But within the Free Democrats (FDP), the junior partner in Angela Merkel's coalition government, the dissent was loudest.\"We cannot expect the citizens, whose taxes are already too high, to go along with supporting the erroneous financial and budget policy of other states of the eurozone,\" said \u00adKarl-Ludwig Thiele, the vice-chief whip of the FDP, adding that Greece's \u00adfinancial crisis was \"not a result of the economic crisis, but self-made\".Addressing the German public's \u00adconcerns about what the effect on German finances might be if it helped Greece by agreeing to buy Greek debt, Die Welt said \"it would have a negative impact on Germany's \u00adcreditworthiness\", and could end up \"costing every \u00adGerman taxpayer an extra 40 euros this year\".An indication of how truly stoked German fears were was the FAZ's \u00adconcern that Germany may even end up paying for Greece's retirees.\"The Greeks go onto the streets to protest against the increase of the \u00adpension age from 61 to 63.\"Does that mean that the Germans should in future extend the working age from 67 to 69, so that the Greeks can enjoy their \u00adretirement?\"Several German \u00adeconomists warned that the collapse of the euro was a possibility.\"If Greece is bust, it could bring the whole euro system down,\" said \u00adfinancial markets expert Rudolf Hickel, of the institute for labour and \u00adeconomy at the University of Bremen.\"There are enough people \u00adspeculating on the markets about the possible bankruptcy of Greece, and once Greece goes, they would then turn their attentions to Spain and Italy, and Germany and France would be forced to step in once again,\" he said.Reports that prices of imported goods would probably rise over the next few weeks if the euro continued to weaken were also rife.\"The less the euro is worth, the more we'll have to pay for petrol, heating oil and gas,\" wrote a commentator in the tabloid Bild under the heading: The desperate fight to save the euro has begun.On the positive side though, the paper suggested that demand for \u00adGerman exports, which has taken a savage hit during the financial crisis because they have been too expensive abroad, would rise as the euro weakened.", "tags": ["Euro", "Germany", "Greece", "Business", "World news", "Economics", "France", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Greek debt crisis: the view from Germany"},{"date": "2010-02-28T21:00:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany is planning to stop what it sees as a British campaign to dominate European foreign policy-making under Lady Catherine Ashton, the Guardian can disclose.Amid growing criticism across the EU of the performance of Baroness Ashton of Upholland, the EU's new high representative for foreign and security policy, Berlin and Paris are alarmed at the prominence of British officials in the new EU diplomatic service being formed under Ashton.A confidential German foreign ministry document analysing the creation of the EU's new diplomatic service, seen by the Guardian, has concluded that Britain has grabbed an \"excessive\" and \"over-proportionate\" role.Berlin and Paris are anxious that they are losing the battle to win key positions in the new service which is to be the main vehicle for projecting European power globally under the Lisbon Treaty.Brussels is currently embroiled in tense negotiations to establish its first worldwide diplomatic corps and integrated foreign policy apparatus, known as the European External Action Service (EEAS). It is to be led by Lady Ashton, the EU's new high representative for foreign and security policy.\"Excessive GB participation [in the EEAS] is evident,\" says the German document. \"Over-proportionate GB influence on the establishment [of the EEAS] and staffing is to be avoided.\"\"There's clearly an anxiety in Paris and Berlin that the overall balance will be satisfactory,\" said Thomas Klau, a German analyst who heads the Paris office of the European Council on Foreign Relations. \"No one has anything against good British candidates, but if it looks like a takeover, it's different.\"With Ashton coming under increasing attack across the EU for what is seen as weak and lacklustre performance as the EU's first foreign and security policy chief, Berlin and Paris fear they are being out-manoeuvred in the tussle for the posts which will shape the new regime.The Germans and the French point to the predominance of British figures in many of the pivotal positions in the new service. Senior sources complain that of the 12 staff appointed to Ashton's office, four are British, including her chief of staff and her private secretary.Additionally, British officials are conspicuous in heading several of the key departments crucial to the operation of the new service. These include the head of the EU's intelligence cell, its military staff, the official recently appointed to overseeing recruitment to what are to be more than 130 EU embassies abroad, as well as Robert Cooper, the EU's top foreign and security policy strategist.\"The inroads to the decision-taking level are easier for the UK than for anyone else,\" said a former German diplomat closely following the politics behind the building of the EEAS. \"A lot of people are very unhappy. But the French are the only ones doing something about this British dominance.\"A European Commission official said: \"What are the French really complaining about? Everything comes back to the British, that it's all a British plot.\"Another EU official said: \"It's a very highly charged political environment. It's getting very messy.\" The diplomats and officials declined to be named.The French contend that the inexperienced Ashton is being schooled in policy-making by the Foreign Office. Diplomats and officials in Brussels also see Britain's hand in one of Ashton's first appointments, made last week. She named Vygaudas U\u0161ackas, a former Lithuanian foreign minister and ambassador in London, as the EU's special envoy to Afghanistan. He was widely seen as the UK's favoured contender after Britain withdrew its own candidate because it secured the post of Nato envoy in Kabul.The Germans are also increasingly unhappy at what they see as the erosion of their influence and being cut out of decision-taking.The EEAS, like Ashton's job, was created by the Lisbon treaty which came into force late last year and is aimed at streamlining EU decision-taking and enabling it to exercise greater political clout around the world through Ashton's \"single voice\" articulating common foreign and security policy.The EEAS is to supply the foreign policy machinery, converting 136 European Commission offices around the world into EU embassies.The Germans, who are the said sources, were incensed at not being consulted when Ashton turned 54 commission offices into EU embassies at the beginning of the year.Ashton has to decide and obtain agreement by the end of April on the fundamental structures, staffing, and budgets for the new service, not least because there are fears across Europe that a UK conservative government may enter office in May and could at best seek to delay its establishment.", "tags": ["European commission", "European Union", "Lady Ashton", "Germany", "France", "UK news", "Politics", "Europe"], "title": "Germany and France dispute Lady Ashton's 'excessive' EU powers"},{"date": "2010-02-28T00:45:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Throughout the German occupation of Greece, the square in front of my home was taken over by the Wehrmacht. Streaming into Athens on the morning of 27 April 1941, the tanks, motorbikes and cars of the 6th Armoured Division headed for the city centre and, in particular, the ancient Plaka district. Within an hour, the swastika had been hoisted from the Acropolis.It was thus that the square was turned into an army depot, German guards posted at each of its four corners. My neighbour, Lina, who was 12 at the time, remembers German officers taking over the top floor of the building next to the neoclassical house she lives in \u2013 which happens to be my home. On the floor below lived Mr and Mrs Michaelides, with their three children. \"Incredibly, they stayed throughout the war,\" she recalled. \"I was always scared for them, my mother always made sure I called them by their first names, because they were Jews.\"Last week those memories returned with the outbreak of a very different sort of war. \"Economic Nazism threatens Europe,\" proclaimed one newspaper, lashing out at German media jibes that the Greeks, being \"cheats\", should pay for allowing their debt-ridden country to reach the point of bankruptcy.\"Racist frenzy and calumny against Greece,\" railed another after a German weekly saw fit to cover its front page with an image of Venus de Milo gesturing obscenely under the headline \"frauds in the Euro-family\".The war of words has worsened not so much as a result of an impending invasion but an interview given by Theodore Pangalos, the Greek deputy prime minister, to the BBC. When my colleague Malcolm Brabant went to see the septuagenarian, he intended to discuss the mounting hostility Greece's debt crisis has triggered towards the EU. He did not think he would be treated to a tirade about the devastation Nazi Germany had wrought on the Greek economy. But after declaring \"we don't want to open the chapter of the Second World War,\" Pangalos could not help himself: \"There is an issue that stands there,\" he said, before lunging into a vitriolic description of the role Hitler's forces had played in plundering Greece \"of gold and money\".There was the issue of war reparations, too; after borrowing the money \"using violence\" they had failed to return the ill-gotten gains and the Greek economy was still suffering: \"They shouldn't complain much about [us] stealing and not being very specific about details.\"This is not the first time Pangalos has upset Germany. In 1993, as foreign minister, he declared that it behaved as \"a bestial giant with a child's brain\". But, although prone to the odd clanger, Pangalos also has his finger on the pulse of the nation.For older Greeks last week, his only crime was that he did not go far enough. It wasn't just the stolen loot, plundering of homes and factories, crippling of the economy, or destruction of the countryside and burning of villages and schools. It was the sheer brutality of a regime that allowed some 300,000 to die from starvation after it requisitioned food, killed at least 100,000 in reprisals following mass resistance, and with frightening efficiency virtually wiped out Greece's entire Jewish community.Like so many others of her generation, Lina, my neighbour, is still haunted by the howls of the hungry. In 1941, when famine took its biggest toll, they would line the streets, hands outstretched over swollen stomachs. \"My father died of famine,\" she says matter-of-factly. \"The Germans kept all the food.\"The bravery of the Greeks was not lost on the F\u00fchrer \u2013 or Winston Churchill, who would famously pronounce that \"the heroes fight like Greeks\" after their extraordinary defeat of Mussolini's forces in 1940.Not long ago I had the honour to shake the hand of Manolis Glezos, who as an 18-year-old tore down the swastika from the Acropolis in the first act of defiance. A lifelong fighter with leftist ideals, he would go on, after the war, to spend nearly three decades in prison under authoritarian right-wing rule. \"Removing the swastika was an act of resistance for all of Europe,\" he said, eyes glinting. \"Please don't ask me any more.\"Today it is not the Wehrmacht but German tourists outside my door.Ever chipper, the white-haired Glezos is the first to say they should be here. But, like so many others, he is also living proof that the wounds of Hitler's Greece have not fully healed even after so many years.", "tags": ["Greece", "Germany", "Euro", "European Union", "Second world war", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Bitter legacy behind war of words between Greece and Germany"},{"date": "2010-02-26T16:44:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Greek prime minister George Papandreou is to hold crunch talks with German chancellor Angela Merkel next Friday.He will visit Berlin at the invitation of chancellor Angela Merkel, his office said. A spokeswoman for the German government said topics for discussion during the inaugural visit would include \"bilateral issues, European Union policy and international topics\".The trip comes after Athens raised tensions between the two nations \u2013 at loggerheads over how to deal with Greece's soaring budget deficit \u2013 by raising the issue of the second world war.\"The issue of German second world war reparations has not been finally settled. We have never given up on our claims. The issue exists in the framework of our bilateral relations with Germany,\" the Greek prime minister told parliament today after a visit by EU inspectors. \"But this is not an issue that we will use for our convenience now, when we are in a weak position and we are called to put our house in order.\"The spat between the two countries escalated today as Greek consumer group Inka called for a boycott of German products and stores. The protest comes after the German magazine Focus published on its cover the Venus de Milo statue giving the finger to the Greeks whom it called \"the cheats in the euro family\". The German ambassador, summoned to see the Speaker of the Greek parliament, deplored the Focus cover.Many Greeks are angry that Germany remains reluctant to bail out Athens, even though its financial crisis continues to worsen. Its public deficit has hit 12.7%, four times the European Union limit. Thousands of Greeks took to the streets again this week to protest against the government's austerity measures.Big German banks surveyed by FT Deutschland are not willing to invest in Greek government bonds. Eurohypo and Hypo Real Estate said yesterday that they will not participate in the upcoming Greek bond issue. However, there are suggestions that German state banks could help out.Deutsche Bank's chief executive Josef Ackermann met Papandreou and finance minister George Papaconstantinou today. Germany's flagship lender helped manage the Greek government's latest bond issue.The EU has piled pressure on Greece to adopt radical measures and bring its spiralling debts under control to prevent further damage to the euro. Its bonds could be headed for junk status after the ratings agency Moody's warned it could downgrade Greece's credit rating if it failed to meet its budget promises.Papandreou said today that the worst fears about the Greek economy had come true, but insisted Greece would not seek a bailout from abroad. He said: \"There is only one dilemma: Will we let the country go bankrupt or will we react? Will we let the speculators strangle us, or will we take our fate in our own hands? We must do whatever we can now to address the immediate dangers today. Tomorrow it will be too late, and the consequences will be much more dire.\"His comments on war reparations came only days after Greece's deputy prime minister, Theodoros Pangalos, suggested that Germany had an obligation to bail out Greece because of its occupation of the country during the second world war.\"They took away the Greek gold that was at the Bank of Greece, they took away the Greek money and they never gave it back. This is an issue that has to be faced sometime in the future,\" he said.", "tags": ["Greece", "Business", "World news", "Budget deficit", "Europe", "George Papandreou"], "title": "Greek PM to hold crunch talks with Germany"},{"date": "2010-03-21T23:00:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The crisis facing the eurozone looks at first sight as German efficiency clashing with Portuguese, Irish, Greek and Spanish sloppiness. But\u00a0in many respects Germany has performed worse than the \"peripheral\" countries in\u00a0the last decade. The largest economy of the eurozone has been marked by slow growth, poor domestic demand, weak investment, high unemployment, and minuscule productivity gains.The only area in which Germany has excelled is exports, where it has chalked up large surpluses, while peripheral nations have had large deficits. But this imbalance is due to the skewed nature of the European monetary union. The eurozone has imposed a single monetary policy and tight fiscal policy. Member countries have applied systematic pressure on wages and working conditions across the zone; in Germany, wages have barely risen in real terms for 15 years, helped by the absence of unions in the old East Germany and easy access to the labour markets of other eastern countries.However, German investment has been weak, and productivity generally rose less than in peripheral countries. In\u00a0the past the exchange rates of these countries would have fallen, allowing them to improve their exports. But the euro makes this impossible.In addition, during the 2007-09 crisis, European banks faced big problems because of speculative investments in\u00a0mortgage-backed securities. The European Central Bank (ECB) provided abundant liquidity to banks and kept interest rates\u00a0very low. But when countries faced heavy borrowing needs, it behaved very\u00a0differently.Public debt rose in 2009 mostly because states rescued the financial system and tax revenue collapsed as the recession unfolded. Profligacy and public inefficiency had little to do with it. But, unlike banks, countries were left to fend for themselves. The ECB simply watched as financiers proceeded to bite their saviour by speculating on public debt.Dealing with the crisis so far has revealed policy chaos at the heart of the eurozone. Statements by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, her finance minister and others are incoherent and vacillating, not to mention replete with moral posturing. Does the German establishment comprehend what is at stake?The policy that has emerged almost by\u00a0default is to impose austerity on the peripheral nations, while refusing to lend fresh money to ease the transition. This is unsustainable for Greece and possibly for Portugal, Spain and others. Greece has applied an enormous squeeze on its workers, exacerbating the recession. The state gathers money through new taxes and wage cuts, and uses it to pay exorbitant rates of interest to the financial markets. The eurozone, meanwhile, tells Greeks to liberalise and reduce bureaucracy. This has no prospect of leading to sustained growth.A fundamental problem of the policy of austerity for the periphery is that it does not deal with the structural imbalance within the monetary union. As long as Germany stagnates and squeezes its workers, much of the eurozone will remain in trouble. Recent comments by the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, indicate though that the French establishment has begun to sense the danger to its own interests.And there are two strategic alternatives: the first is to aim for a \"good euro\". Several steps could be taken, for example, restoring some fiscal freedom to member states, expanding the European budget, instituting fiscal transfers from rich to poor, and introducing a minimum wage and unemployment insurance. The\u00a0ECB might also be allowed to buy state debt. The \"good euro\" relies on creating a radical cross-European political alliance, the prospects of which are slim. And it would probably weaken the international role of the euro.The other strategy is \"progressive exit\" from the eurozone. This more radical approach would involve devaluation, restructuring of foreign debt, and capital controls. The productive sector would benefit but the initial shock would be substantial. To protect the economy there would have to be public control of banks and other key areas of the economy, including transport, energy and telecommunications. Peripheral economies might then be shifted in a more productive direction \u2013 for example, supporting the transition to low-carbon activities.Finally, exit by the periphery might also help German workers appreciate the extent to which the eurozone has been tormenting them, leading to much-needed corrective action at the core.", "tags": ["European Central Bank", "European monetary union", "European Union", "Germany", "Greece", "Euro", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: a euro laggard | Costas Lapavitsas"},{"date": "2010-02-11T23:33:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Resistance in Germany towards \u00adhelping bail out Greece, its troubled eurozone partner, was growing today amid fears that financial assistance for \u00adAthens would be hard to justify to the German voter.\"Germany is going to have to \u00adshoulder Greece's debt burden \u2026 but no one dares tell the German taxpayer,\" wrote Henryk Muller in the online version of Der Spiegel.Some commentators suggested calls would grow for the return of the beloved currency the Germans relinquished just over a decade ago, in return for economic stability in Europe.\"At this rate the Germans will wish the return of the deutschmark,\" said the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung in an acerbic editorial, stressing that Germany had not signed up to the euro \"in order that it could pay for Greece's debts \u2026 this is not how they sold the euro to the Germans\". Most German politicians were cautious about \u00adcriticising Greece for its poor public spending management.But within the Free Democrats (FDP), the junior partner in Angela Merkel's coalition government, the dissent was loudest.\"We cannot expect the citizens, whose taxes are already too high, to go along with supporting the erroneous financial and budget policy of other states of the eurozone,\" said \u00adKarl-Ludwig Thiele, the vice-chief whip of the FDP, adding that Greece's \u00adfinancial crisis was \"not a result of the economic crisis, but self-made\".Addressing the German public's \u00adconcerns about what the effect on German finances might be if it helped Greece by agreeing to buy Greek debt, Die Welt said \"it would have a negative impact on Germany's \u00adcreditworthiness\", and could end up \"costing every \u00adGerman taxpayer an extra 40 euros this year\".An indication of how truly stoked German fears were was the FAZ's \u00adconcern that Germany may even end up paying for Greece's retirees.\"The Greeks go onto the streets to protest against the increase of the \u00adpension age from 61 to 63.\"Does that mean that the Germans should in future extend the working age from 67 to 69, so that the Greeks can enjoy their \u00adretirement?\"Several German \u00adeconomists warned that the collapse of the euro was a possibility.\"If Greece is bust, it could bring the whole euro system down,\" said \u00adfinancial markets expert Rudolf Hickel, of the institute for labour and \u00adeconomy at the University of Bremen.\"There are enough people \u00adspeculating on the markets about the possible bankruptcy of Greece, and once Greece goes, they would then turn their attentions to Spain and Italy, and Germany and France would be forced to step in once again,\" he said.Reports that prices of imported goods would probably rise over the next few weeks if the euro continued to weaken were also rife.\"The less the euro is worth, the more we'll have to pay for petrol, heating oil and gas,\" wrote a commentator in the tabloid Bild under the heading: The desperate fight to save the euro has begun.On the positive side though, the paper suggested that demand for \u00adGerman exports, which has taken a savage hit during the financial crisis because they have been too expensive abroad, would rise as the euro weakened.", "tags": ["Euro", "Germany", "Greece", "Business", "World news", "Economics", "France", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Greek debt crisis: the view from Germany"},{"date": "2010-02-28T21:00:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany is planning to stop what it sees as a British campaign to dominate European foreign policy-making under Lady Catherine Ashton, the Guardian can disclose.Amid growing criticism across the EU of the performance of Baroness Ashton of Upholland, the EU's new high representative for foreign and security policy, Berlin and Paris are alarmed at the prominence of British officials in the new EU diplomatic service being formed under Ashton.A confidential German foreign ministry document analysing the creation of the EU's new diplomatic service, seen by the Guardian, has concluded that Britain has grabbed an \"excessive\" and \"over-proportionate\" role.Berlin and Paris are anxious that they are losing the battle to win key positions in the new service which is to be the main vehicle for projecting European power globally under the Lisbon Treaty.Brussels is currently embroiled in tense negotiations to establish its first worldwide diplomatic corps and integrated foreign policy apparatus, known as the European External Action Service (EEAS). It is to be led by Lady Ashton, the EU's new high representative for foreign and security policy.\"Excessive GB participation [in the EEAS] is evident,\" says the German document. \"Over-proportionate GB influence on the establishment [of the EEAS] and staffing is to be avoided.\"\"There's clearly an anxiety in Paris and Berlin that the overall balance will be satisfactory,\" said Thomas Klau, a German analyst who heads the Paris office of the European Council on Foreign Relations. \"No one has anything against good British candidates, but if it looks like a takeover, it's different.\"With Ashton coming under increasing attack across the EU for what is seen as weak and lacklustre performance as the EU's first foreign and security policy chief, Berlin and Paris fear they are being out-manoeuvred in the tussle for the posts which will shape the new regime.The Germans and the French point to the predominance of British figures in many of the pivotal positions in the new service. Senior sources complain that of the 12 staff appointed to Ashton's office, four are British, including her chief of staff and her private secretary.Additionally, British officials are conspicuous in heading several of the key departments crucial to the operation of the new service. These include the head of the EU's intelligence cell, its military staff, the official recently appointed to overseeing recruitment to what are to be more than 130 EU embassies abroad, as well as Robert Cooper, the EU's top foreign and security policy strategist.\"The inroads to the decision-taking level are easier for the UK than for anyone else,\" said a former German diplomat closely following the politics behind the building of the EEAS. \"A lot of people are very unhappy. But the French are the only ones doing something about this British dominance.\"A European Commission official said: \"What are the French really complaining about? Everything comes back to the British, that it's all a British plot.\"Another EU official said: \"It's a very highly charged political environment. It's getting very messy.\" The diplomats and officials declined to be named.The French contend that the inexperienced Ashton is being schooled in policy-making by the Foreign Office. Diplomats and officials in Brussels also see Britain's hand in one of Ashton's first appointments, made last week. She named Vygaudas U\u0161ackas, a former Lithuanian foreign minister and ambassador in London, as the EU's special envoy to Afghanistan. He was widely seen as the UK's favoured contender after Britain withdrew its own candidate because it secured the post of Nato envoy in Kabul.The Germans are also increasingly unhappy at what they see as the erosion of their influence and being cut out of decision-taking.The EEAS, like Ashton's job, was created by the Lisbon treaty which came into force late last year and is aimed at streamlining EU decision-taking and enabling it to exercise greater political clout around the world through Ashton's \"single voice\" articulating common foreign and security policy.The EEAS is to supply the foreign policy machinery, converting 136 European Commission offices around the world into EU embassies.The Germans, who are the said sources, were incensed at not being consulted when Ashton turned 54 commission offices into EU embassies at the beginning of the year.Ashton has to decide and obtain agreement by the end of April on the fundamental structures, staffing, and budgets for the new service, not least because there are fears across Europe that a UK conservative government may enter office in May and could at best seek to delay its establishment.", "tags": ["European commission", "European Union", "Lady Ashton", "Germany", "France", "UK news", "Politics", "Europe"], "title": "Germany and France dispute Lady Ashton's 'excessive' EU powers"},{"date": "2010-02-28T00:45:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Throughout the German occupation of Greece, the square in front of my home was taken over by the Wehrmacht. Streaming into Athens on the morning of 27 April 1941, the tanks, motorbikes and cars of the 6th Armoured Division headed for the city centre and, in particular, the ancient Plaka district. Within an hour, the swastika had been hoisted from the Acropolis.It was thus that the square was turned into an army depot, German guards posted at each of its four corners. My neighbour, Lina, who was 12 at the time, remembers German officers taking over the top floor of the building next to the neoclassical house she lives in \u2013 which happens to be my home. On the floor below lived Mr and Mrs Michaelides, with their three children. \"Incredibly, they stayed throughout the war,\" she recalled. \"I was always scared for them, my mother always made sure I called them by their first names, because they were Jews.\"Last week those memories returned with the outbreak of a very different sort of war. \"Economic Nazism threatens Europe,\" proclaimed one newspaper, lashing out at German media jibes that the Greeks, being \"cheats\", should pay for allowing their debt-ridden country to reach the point of bankruptcy.\"Racist frenzy and calumny against Greece,\" railed another after a German weekly saw fit to cover its front page with an image of Venus de Milo gesturing obscenely under the headline \"frauds in the Euro-family\".The war of words has worsened not so much as a result of an impending invasion but an interview given by Theodore Pangalos, the Greek deputy prime minister, to the BBC. When my colleague Malcolm Brabant went to see the septuagenarian, he intended to discuss the mounting hostility Greece's debt crisis has triggered towards the EU. He did not think he would be treated to a tirade about the devastation Nazi Germany had wrought on the Greek economy. But after declaring \"we don't want to open the chapter of the Second World War,\" Pangalos could not help himself: \"There is an issue that stands there,\" he said, before lunging into a vitriolic description of the role Hitler's forces had played in plundering Greece \"of gold and money\".There was the issue of war reparations, too; after borrowing the money \"using violence\" they had failed to return the ill-gotten gains and the Greek economy was still suffering: \"They shouldn't complain much about [us] stealing and not being very specific about details.\"This is not the first time Pangalos has upset Germany. In 1993, as foreign minister, he declared that it behaved as \"a bestial giant with a child's brain\". But, although prone to the odd clanger, Pangalos also has his finger on the pulse of the nation.For older Greeks last week, his only crime was that he did not go far enough. It wasn't just the stolen loot, plundering of homes and factories, crippling of the economy, or destruction of the countryside and burning of villages and schools. It was the sheer brutality of a regime that allowed some 300,000 to die from starvation after it requisitioned food, killed at least 100,000 in reprisals following mass resistance, and with frightening efficiency virtually wiped out Greece's entire Jewish community.Like so many others of her generation, Lina, my neighbour, is still haunted by the howls of the hungry. In 1941, when famine took its biggest toll, they would line the streets, hands outstretched over swollen stomachs. \"My father died of famine,\" she says matter-of-factly. \"The Germans kept all the food.\"The bravery of the Greeks was not lost on the F\u00fchrer \u2013 or Winston Churchill, who would famously pronounce that \"the heroes fight like Greeks\" after their extraordinary defeat of Mussolini's forces in 1940.Not long ago I had the honour to shake the hand of Manolis Glezos, who as an 18-year-old tore down the swastika from the Acropolis in the first act of defiance. A lifelong fighter with leftist ideals, he would go on, after the war, to spend nearly three decades in prison under authoritarian right-wing rule. \"Removing the swastika was an act of resistance for all of Europe,\" he said, eyes glinting. \"Please don't ask me any more.\"Today it is not the Wehrmacht but German tourists outside my door.Ever chipper, the white-haired Glezos is the first to say they should be here. But, like so many others, he is also living proof that the wounds of Hitler's Greece have not fully healed even after so many years.", "tags": ["Greece", "Germany", "Euro", "European Union", "Second world war", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Bitter legacy behind war of words between Greece and Germany"},{"date": "2010-02-26T16:44:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Greek prime minister George Papandreou is to hold crunch talks with German chancellor Angela Merkel next Friday.He will visit Berlin at the invitation of chancellor Angela Merkel, his office said. A spokeswoman for the German government said topics for discussion during the inaugural visit would include \"bilateral issues, European Union policy and international topics\".The trip comes after Athens raised tensions between the two nations \u2013 at loggerheads over how to deal with Greece's soaring budget deficit \u2013 by raising the issue of the second world war.\"The issue of German second world war reparations has not been finally settled. We have never given up on our claims. The issue exists in the framework of our bilateral relations with Germany,\" the Greek prime minister told parliament today after a visit by EU inspectors. \"But this is not an issue that we will use for our convenience now, when we are in a weak position and we are called to put our house in order.\"The spat between the two countries escalated today as Greek consumer group Inka called for a boycott of German products and stores. The protest comes after the German magazine Focus published on its cover the Venus de Milo statue giving the finger to the Greeks whom it called \"the cheats in the euro family\". The German ambassador, summoned to see the Speaker of the Greek parliament, deplored the Focus cover.Many Greeks are angry that Germany remains reluctant to bail out Athens, even though its financial crisis continues to worsen. Its public deficit has hit 12.7%, four times the European Union limit. Thousands of Greeks took to the streets again this week to protest against the government's austerity measures.Big German banks surveyed by FT Deutschland are not willing to invest in Greek government bonds. Eurohypo and Hypo Real Estate said yesterday that they will not participate in the upcoming Greek bond issue. However, there are suggestions that German state banks could help out.Deutsche Bank's chief executive Josef Ackermann met Papandreou and finance minister George Papaconstantinou today. Germany's flagship lender helped manage the Greek government's latest bond issue.The EU has piled pressure on Greece to adopt radical measures and bring its spiralling debts under control to prevent further damage to the euro. Its bonds could be headed for junk status after the ratings agency Moody's warned it could downgrade Greece's credit rating if it failed to meet its budget promises.Papandreou said today that the worst fears about the Greek economy had come true, but insisted Greece would not seek a bailout from abroad. He said: \"There is only one dilemma: Will we let the country go bankrupt or will we react? Will we let the speculators strangle us, or will we take our fate in our own hands? We must do whatever we can now to address the immediate dangers today. Tomorrow it will be too late, and the consequences will be much more dire.\"His comments on war reparations came only days after Greece's deputy prime minister, Theodoros Pangalos, suggested that Germany had an obligation to bail out Greece because of its occupation of the country during the second world war.\"They took away the Greek gold that was at the Bank of Greece, they took away the Greek money and they never gave it back. This is an issue that has to be faced sometime in the future,\" he said.", "tags": ["Greece", "Business", "World news", "Budget deficit", "Europe", "George Papandreou"], "title": "Greek PM to hold crunch talks with Germany"},{"date": "2010-02-11T22:42:49Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany, it seems, is damned if it does, and damned if it doesn't.Fearing that the hard-fought solidity of the euro single currency could dissolve because of the markets punting and pushing a spendthrift Greek government to the brink of financial insolvency, Chancellor Angela Merkel has to swallow the bitter pill of \"moral hazard\" and ride to the rescue or insist on austerity in Athens on a scale that could bring down the government.For now, she has opted for the \u00adlatter. But the clash of cultures on view at today's EU summit in Brussels over how to master the threat to the euro exposed an old faultline, as old as the single currency itself.When the currency was going through its birth pangs in the 1990s, the Germans insisted its Frankfurt-based guardian, the European Central Bank, be modelled on Germany's Bundesbank, with the paramount tasks being monetary policy, low inflation, and currency stability overseen by an utterly independent authority.France waged a war of attrition aimed at diluting the ECB's independence, arguing for greater emphasis on economic and fiscal policy-making powers in the eurozone. In short, the euro should be a political instrument geared to the \"economic governance\" of Europe. The result was the euro's rule book, the stability and growth pact which dictates budget deficit and national debt ceilings. The \"stability\" was for Germany, the \"growth\" for France, meaning economic policy-making in the euro area. This war is still being fought.In the Greek emergency, the French sense a chance to advance their agenda, supported by Spain in the EU's rotating six-month presidency and also encouraged by early speeches from the new European council president, \u00adHerman Van Rompuy.The French \u2013 whose budget deficit is more than double Germany's \u2013 the Spanish and others would be happy to spend their way out of the current crisis, through loans or loan guarantees to Greece or the issue of common Eurobonds. But \u00adGermany, the EU's traditional paymaster, is having none of it, sticking to the letter of the Maastricht treaty which established the single currency and proscribes bailouts of other eurozone countries.When the 16 eurozone finance ministers discussed the crisis by video \u00adconference on Wednesday, they could not settle on a common position, not least because of this fundamental difference in outlook.If Greece is serious about quelling excitement on the financial markets, runs the German argument, it can emulate Ireland, also on the brink of financial collapse last year and now engaged in the most draconian spending cuts without a bailout. Besides, the Greeks lied their way into the eurozone in 2001 through fiddling the figures, enjoyed the rising living standards for years, and cannot now expect the Germans and others to pick up the bill.The conservative Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, a supporter of the Merkel centre-right coalition, put it like this on its frontpage: \"The Greeks are taking to the streets to protest against raising the retirement age from 61 to 63. Are the Germans now supposed to work until 69 and not 67 so the Greeks can enjoy early retirement?\"Such is German opposition to bailing out Greece, that Merkel, according to senior European diplomats, went into the summit highly ambivalent about even having the Greek emergency on the agenda.There were two crucial meetings before the summit began \u2013 a breakfast with the Spanish and Luxembourg prime ministers, current EU and eurozone presidents, and the heads of the European commission, European Central Bank, and the man now in charge of EU summits, Van Rompuy. Merkel, Sarkozy, Van Rompuy, and Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso, commission chief, then met George Papandreou, the Greek prime minister. Diplomatic sources said Merkel was pressed to agree a bailout. She resisted.But she bowed to the consensus, albeit reluctantly, that the nuisances on the financial markets had to be appeased and sent a signal. So the 27 government \u00adleaders pledged to ensure the euro's stability \"if needed\", but stressed that Athens had not proffered a begging bowl.Had they been asked (referendums are banned in Germany because of nasty experiences with them under the Nazis), Germans would never have sacrificed their cherished D-mark for the euro 11 years ago. At the time, single currency opponents ran scare campaigns warning about the dangers posed by linking up with the \"spaghetti money\" of southern Europe. Now they see their currency jeopardised by southern European profligacy.If push comes to shove and Greece edges towards default, Merkel may need to change her tune. As Europe's biggest economy Germany also benefits enormously from the eurozone and the captive market for its goods. The Berlin strategy is to buy time, hope speculation against the euro will abate, that Athens will do a Dublin. It is not only the markets that are gambling.", "tags": ["Greece", "Euro", "European Union", "Business", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Europe"], "title": "Germany demands austerity, not bailout, for spendthrift Athens"},{"date": "2010-03-21T23:00:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The crisis facing the eurozone looks at first sight as German efficiency clashing with Portuguese, Irish, Greek and Spanish sloppiness. But\u00a0in many respects Germany has performed worse than the \"peripheral\" countries in\u00a0the last decade. The largest economy of the eurozone has been marked by slow growth, poor domestic demand, weak investment, high unemployment, and minuscule productivity gains.The only area in which Germany has excelled is exports, where it has chalked up large surpluses, while peripheral nations have had large deficits. But this imbalance is due to the skewed nature of the European monetary union. The eurozone has imposed a single monetary policy and tight fiscal policy. Member countries have applied systematic pressure on wages and working conditions across the zone; in Germany, wages have barely risen in real terms for 15 years, helped by the absence of unions in the old East Germany and easy access to the labour markets of other eastern countries.However, German investment has been weak, and productivity generally rose less than in peripheral countries. In\u00a0the past the exchange rates of these countries would have fallen, allowing them to improve their exports. But the euro makes this impossible.In addition, during the 2007-09 crisis, European banks faced big problems because of speculative investments in\u00a0mortgage-backed securities. The European Central Bank (ECB) provided abundant liquidity to banks and kept interest rates\u00a0very low. But when countries faced heavy borrowing needs, it behaved very\u00a0differently.Public debt rose in 2009 mostly because states rescued the financial system and tax revenue collapsed as the recession unfolded. Profligacy and public inefficiency had little to do with it. But, unlike banks, countries were left to fend for themselves. The ECB simply watched as financiers proceeded to bite their saviour by speculating on public debt.Dealing with the crisis so far has revealed policy chaos at the heart of the eurozone. Statements by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, her finance minister and others are incoherent and vacillating, not to mention replete with moral posturing. Does the German establishment comprehend what is at stake?The policy that has emerged almost by\u00a0default is to impose austerity on the peripheral nations, while refusing to lend fresh money to ease the transition. This is unsustainable for Greece and possibly for Portugal, Spain and others. Greece has applied an enormous squeeze on its workers, exacerbating the recession. The state gathers money through new taxes and wage cuts, and uses it to pay exorbitant rates of interest to the financial markets. The eurozone, meanwhile, tells Greeks to liberalise and reduce bureaucracy. This has no prospect of leading to sustained growth.A fundamental problem of the policy of austerity for the periphery is that it does not deal with the structural imbalance within the monetary union. As long as Germany stagnates and squeezes its workers, much of the eurozone will remain in trouble. Recent comments by the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, indicate though that the French establishment has begun to sense the danger to its own interests.And there are two strategic alternatives: the first is to aim for a \"good euro\". Several steps could be taken, for example, restoring some fiscal freedom to member states, expanding the European budget, instituting fiscal transfers from rich to poor, and introducing a minimum wage and unemployment insurance. The\u00a0ECB might also be allowed to buy state debt. The \"good euro\" relies on creating a radical cross-European political alliance, the prospects of which are slim. And it would probably weaken the international role of the euro.The other strategy is \"progressive exit\" from the eurozone. This more radical approach would involve devaluation, restructuring of foreign debt, and capital controls. The productive sector would benefit but the initial shock would be substantial. To protect the economy there would have to be public control of banks and other key areas of the economy, including transport, energy and telecommunications. Peripheral economies might then be shifted in a more productive direction \u2013 for example, supporting the transition to low-carbon activities.Finally, exit by the periphery might also help German workers appreciate the extent to which the eurozone has been tormenting them, leading to much-needed corrective action at the core.", "tags": ["European Central Bank", "European monetary union", "European Union", "Germany", "Greece", "Euro", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: a euro laggard | Costas Lapavitsas"},{"date": "2010-02-11T23:33:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Resistance in Germany towards \u00adhelping bail out Greece, its troubled eurozone partner, was growing today amid fears that financial assistance for \u00adAthens would be hard to justify to the German voter.\"Germany is going to have to \u00adshoulder Greece's debt burden \u2026 but no one dares tell the German taxpayer,\" wrote Henryk Muller in the online version of Der Spiegel.Some commentators suggested calls would grow for the return of the beloved currency the Germans relinquished just over a decade ago, in return for economic stability in Europe.\"At this rate the Germans will wish the return of the deutschmark,\" said the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung in an acerbic editorial, stressing that Germany had not signed up to the euro \"in order that it could pay for Greece's debts \u2026 this is not how they sold the euro to the Germans\". Most German politicians were cautious about \u00adcriticising Greece for its poor public spending management.But within the Free Democrats (FDP), the junior partner in Angela Merkel's coalition government, the dissent was loudest.\"We cannot expect the citizens, whose taxes are already too high, to go along with supporting the erroneous financial and budget policy of other states of the eurozone,\" said \u00adKarl-Ludwig Thiele, the vice-chief whip of the FDP, adding that Greece's \u00adfinancial crisis was \"not a result of the economic crisis, but self-made\".Addressing the German public's \u00adconcerns about what the effect on German finances might be if it helped Greece by agreeing to buy Greek debt, Die Welt said \"it would have a negative impact on Germany's \u00adcreditworthiness\", and could end up \"costing every \u00adGerman taxpayer an extra 40 euros this year\".An indication of how truly stoked German fears were was the FAZ's \u00adconcern that Germany may even end up paying for Greece's retirees.\"The Greeks go onto the streets to protest against the increase of the \u00adpension age from 61 to 63.\"Does that mean that the Germans should in future extend the working age from 67 to 69, so that the Greeks can enjoy their \u00adretirement?\"Several German \u00adeconomists warned that the collapse of the euro was a possibility.\"If Greece is bust, it could bring the whole euro system down,\" said \u00adfinancial markets expert Rudolf Hickel, of the institute for labour and \u00adeconomy at the University of Bremen.\"There are enough people \u00adspeculating on the markets about the possible bankruptcy of Greece, and once Greece goes, they would then turn their attentions to Spain and Italy, and Germany and France would be forced to step in once again,\" he said.Reports that prices of imported goods would probably rise over the next few weeks if the euro continued to weaken were also rife.\"The less the euro is worth, the more we'll have to pay for petrol, heating oil and gas,\" wrote a commentator in the tabloid Bild under the heading: The desperate fight to save the euro has begun.On the positive side though, the paper suggested that demand for \u00adGerman exports, which has taken a savage hit during the financial crisis because they have been too expensive abroad, would rise as the euro weakened.", "tags": ["Euro", "Germany", "Greece", "Business", "World news", "Economics", "France", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Greek debt crisis: the view from Germany"},{"date": "2010-02-28T21:00:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany is planning to stop what it sees as a British campaign to dominate European foreign policy-making under Lady Catherine Ashton, the Guardian can disclose.Amid growing criticism across the EU of the performance of Baroness Ashton of Upholland, the EU's new high representative for foreign and security policy, Berlin and Paris are alarmed at the prominence of British officials in the new EU diplomatic service being formed under Ashton.A confidential German foreign ministry document analysing the creation of the EU's new diplomatic service, seen by the Guardian, has concluded that Britain has grabbed an \"excessive\" and \"over-proportionate\" role.Berlin and Paris are anxious that they are losing the battle to win key positions in the new service which is to be the main vehicle for projecting European power globally under the Lisbon Treaty.Brussels is currently embroiled in tense negotiations to establish its first worldwide diplomatic corps and integrated foreign policy apparatus, known as the European External Action Service (EEAS). It is to be led by Lady Ashton, the EU's new high representative for foreign and security policy.\"Excessive GB participation [in the EEAS] is evident,\" says the German document. \"Over-proportionate GB influence on the establishment [of the EEAS] and staffing is to be avoided.\"\"There's clearly an anxiety in Paris and Berlin that the overall balance will be satisfactory,\" said Thomas Klau, a German analyst who heads the Paris office of the European Council on Foreign Relations. \"No one has anything against good British candidates, but if it looks like a takeover, it's different.\"With Ashton coming under increasing attack across the EU for what is seen as weak and lacklustre performance as the EU's first foreign and security policy chief, Berlin and Paris fear they are being out-manoeuvred in the tussle for the posts which will shape the new regime.The Germans and the French point to the predominance of British figures in many of the pivotal positions in the new service. Senior sources complain that of the 12 staff appointed to Ashton's office, four are British, including her chief of staff and her private secretary.Additionally, British officials are conspicuous in heading several of the key departments crucial to the operation of the new service. These include the head of the EU's intelligence cell, its military staff, the official recently appointed to overseeing recruitment to what are to be more than 130 EU embassies abroad, as well as Robert Cooper, the EU's top foreign and security policy strategist.\"The inroads to the decision-taking level are easier for the UK than for anyone else,\" said a former German diplomat closely following the politics behind the building of the EEAS. \"A lot of people are very unhappy. But the French are the only ones doing something about this British dominance.\"A European Commission official said: \"What are the French really complaining about? Everything comes back to the British, that it's all a British plot.\"Another EU official said: \"It's a very highly charged political environment. It's getting very messy.\" The diplomats and officials declined to be named.The French contend that the inexperienced Ashton is being schooled in policy-making by the Foreign Office. Diplomats and officials in Brussels also see Britain's hand in one of Ashton's first appointments, made last week. She named Vygaudas U\u0161ackas, a former Lithuanian foreign minister and ambassador in London, as the EU's special envoy to Afghanistan. He was widely seen as the UK's favoured contender after Britain withdrew its own candidate because it secured the post of Nato envoy in Kabul.The Germans are also increasingly unhappy at what they see as the erosion of their influence and being cut out of decision-taking.The EEAS, like Ashton's job, was created by the Lisbon treaty which came into force late last year and is aimed at streamlining EU decision-taking and enabling it to exercise greater political clout around the world through Ashton's \"single voice\" articulating common foreign and security policy.The EEAS is to supply the foreign policy machinery, converting 136 European Commission offices around the world into EU embassies.The Germans, who are the said sources, were incensed at not being consulted when Ashton turned 54 commission offices into EU embassies at the beginning of the year.Ashton has to decide and obtain agreement by the end of April on the fundamental structures, staffing, and budgets for the new service, not least because there are fears across Europe that a UK conservative government may enter office in May and could at best seek to delay its establishment.", "tags": ["European commission", "European Union", "Lady Ashton", "Germany", "France", "UK news", "Politics", "Europe"], "title": "Germany and France dispute Lady Ashton's 'excessive' EU powers"},{"date": "2010-02-28T00:45:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Throughout the German occupation of Greece, the square in front of my home was taken over by the Wehrmacht. Streaming into Athens on the morning of 27 April 1941, the tanks, motorbikes and cars of the 6th Armoured Division headed for the city centre and, in particular, the ancient Plaka district. Within an hour, the swastika had been hoisted from the Acropolis.It was thus that the square was turned into an army depot, German guards posted at each of its four corners. My neighbour, Lina, who was 12 at the time, remembers German officers taking over the top floor of the building next to the neoclassical house she lives in \u2013 which happens to be my home. On the floor below lived Mr and Mrs Michaelides, with their three children. \"Incredibly, they stayed throughout the war,\" she recalled. \"I was always scared for them, my mother always made sure I called them by their first names, because they were Jews.\"Last week those memories returned with the outbreak of a very different sort of war. \"Economic Nazism threatens Europe,\" proclaimed one newspaper, lashing out at German media jibes that the Greeks, being \"cheats\", should pay for allowing their debt-ridden country to reach the point of bankruptcy.\"Racist frenzy and calumny against Greece,\" railed another after a German weekly saw fit to cover its front page with an image of Venus de Milo gesturing obscenely under the headline \"frauds in the Euro-family\".The war of words has worsened not so much as a result of an impending invasion but an interview given by Theodore Pangalos, the Greek deputy prime minister, to the BBC. When my colleague Malcolm Brabant went to see the septuagenarian, he intended to discuss the mounting hostility Greece's debt crisis has triggered towards the EU. He did not think he would be treated to a tirade about the devastation Nazi Germany had wrought on the Greek economy. But after declaring \"we don't want to open the chapter of the Second World War,\" Pangalos could not help himself: \"There is an issue that stands there,\" he said, before lunging into a vitriolic description of the role Hitler's forces had played in plundering Greece \"of gold and money\".There was the issue of war reparations, too; after borrowing the money \"using violence\" they had failed to return the ill-gotten gains and the Greek economy was still suffering: \"They shouldn't complain much about [us] stealing and not being very specific about details.\"This is not the first time Pangalos has upset Germany. In 1993, as foreign minister, he declared that it behaved as \"a bestial giant with a child's brain\". But, although prone to the odd clanger, Pangalos also has his finger on the pulse of the nation.For older Greeks last week, his only crime was that he did not go far enough. It wasn't just the stolen loot, plundering of homes and factories, crippling of the economy, or destruction of the countryside and burning of villages and schools. It was the sheer brutality of a regime that allowed some 300,000 to die from starvation after it requisitioned food, killed at least 100,000 in reprisals following mass resistance, and with frightening efficiency virtually wiped out Greece's entire Jewish community.Like so many others of her generation, Lina, my neighbour, is still haunted by the howls of the hungry. In 1941, when famine took its biggest toll, they would line the streets, hands outstretched over swollen stomachs. \"My father died of famine,\" she says matter-of-factly. \"The Germans kept all the food.\"The bravery of the Greeks was not lost on the F\u00fchrer \u2013 or Winston Churchill, who would famously pronounce that \"the heroes fight like Greeks\" after their extraordinary defeat of Mussolini's forces in 1940.Not long ago I had the honour to shake the hand of Manolis Glezos, who as an 18-year-old tore down the swastika from the Acropolis in the first act of defiance. A lifelong fighter with leftist ideals, he would go on, after the war, to spend nearly three decades in prison under authoritarian right-wing rule. \"Removing the swastika was an act of resistance for all of Europe,\" he said, eyes glinting. \"Please don't ask me any more.\"Today it is not the Wehrmacht but German tourists outside my door.Ever chipper, the white-haired Glezos is the first to say they should be here. But, like so many others, he is also living proof that the wounds of Hitler's Greece have not fully healed even after so many years.", "tags": ["Greece", "Germany", "Euro", "European Union", "Second world war", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Bitter legacy behind war of words between Greece and Germany"},{"date": "2010-02-26T16:44:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Greek prime minister George Papandreou is to hold crunch talks with German chancellor Angela Merkel next Friday.He will visit Berlin at the invitation of chancellor Angela Merkel, his office said. A spokeswoman for the German government said topics for discussion during the inaugural visit would include \"bilateral issues, European Union policy and international topics\".The trip comes after Athens raised tensions between the two nations \u2013 at loggerheads over how to deal with Greece's soaring budget deficit \u2013 by raising the issue of the second world war.\"The issue of German second world war reparations has not been finally settled. We have never given up on our claims. The issue exists in the framework of our bilateral relations with Germany,\" the Greek prime minister told parliament today after a visit by EU inspectors. \"But this is not an issue that we will use for our convenience now, when we are in a weak position and we are called to put our house in order.\"The spat between the two countries escalated today as Greek consumer group Inka called for a boycott of German products and stores. The protest comes after the German magazine Focus published on its cover the Venus de Milo statue giving the finger to the Greeks whom it called \"the cheats in the euro family\". The German ambassador, summoned to see the Speaker of the Greek parliament, deplored the Focus cover.Many Greeks are angry that Germany remains reluctant to bail out Athens, even though its financial crisis continues to worsen. Its public deficit has hit 12.7%, four times the European Union limit. Thousands of Greeks took to the streets again this week to protest against the government's austerity measures.Big German banks surveyed by FT Deutschland are not willing to invest in Greek government bonds. Eurohypo and Hypo Real Estate said yesterday that they will not participate in the upcoming Greek bond issue. However, there are suggestions that German state banks could help out.Deutsche Bank's chief executive Josef Ackermann met Papandreou and finance minister George Papaconstantinou today. Germany's flagship lender helped manage the Greek government's latest bond issue.The EU has piled pressure on Greece to adopt radical measures and bring its spiralling debts under control to prevent further damage to the euro. Its bonds could be headed for junk status after the ratings agency Moody's warned it could downgrade Greece's credit rating if it failed to meet its budget promises.Papandreou said today that the worst fears about the Greek economy had come true, but insisted Greece would not seek a bailout from abroad. He said: \"There is only one dilemma: Will we let the country go bankrupt or will we react? Will we let the speculators strangle us, or will we take our fate in our own hands? We must do whatever we can now to address the immediate dangers today. Tomorrow it will be too late, and the consequences will be much more dire.\"His comments on war reparations came only days after Greece's deputy prime minister, Theodoros Pangalos, suggested that Germany had an obligation to bail out Greece because of its occupation of the country during the second world war.\"They took away the Greek gold that was at the Bank of Greece, they took away the Greek money and they never gave it back. This is an issue that has to be faced sometime in the future,\" he said.", "tags": ["Greece", "Business", "World news", "Budget deficit", "Europe", "George Papandreou"], "title": "Greek PM to hold crunch talks with Germany"},{"date": "2010-02-11T22:42:49Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany, it seems, is damned if it does, and damned if it doesn't.Fearing that the hard-fought solidity of the euro single currency could dissolve because of the markets punting and pushing a spendthrift Greek government to the brink of financial insolvency, Chancellor Angela Merkel has to swallow the bitter pill of \"moral hazard\" and ride to the rescue or insist on austerity in Athens on a scale that could bring down the government.For now, she has opted for the \u00adlatter. But the clash of cultures on view at today's EU summit in Brussels over how to master the threat to the euro exposed an old faultline, as old as the single currency itself.When the currency was going through its birth pangs in the 1990s, the Germans insisted its Frankfurt-based guardian, the European Central Bank, be modelled on Germany's Bundesbank, with the paramount tasks being monetary policy, low inflation, and currency stability overseen by an utterly independent authority.France waged a war of attrition aimed at diluting the ECB's independence, arguing for greater emphasis on economic and fiscal policy-making powers in the eurozone. In short, the euro should be a political instrument geared to the \"economic governance\" of Europe. The result was the euro's rule book, the stability and growth pact which dictates budget deficit and national debt ceilings. The \"stability\" was for Germany, the \"growth\" for France, meaning economic policy-making in the euro area. This war is still being fought.In the Greek emergency, the French sense a chance to advance their agenda, supported by Spain in the EU's rotating six-month presidency and also encouraged by early speeches from the new European council president, \u00adHerman Van Rompuy.The French \u2013 whose budget deficit is more than double Germany's \u2013 the Spanish and others would be happy to spend their way out of the current crisis, through loans or loan guarantees to Greece or the issue of common Eurobonds. But \u00adGermany, the EU's traditional paymaster, is having none of it, sticking to the letter of the Maastricht treaty which established the single currency and proscribes bailouts of other eurozone countries.When the 16 eurozone finance ministers discussed the crisis by video \u00adconference on Wednesday, they could not settle on a common position, not least because of this fundamental difference in outlook.If Greece is serious about quelling excitement on the financial markets, runs the German argument, it can emulate Ireland, also on the brink of financial collapse last year and now engaged in the most draconian spending cuts without a bailout. Besides, the Greeks lied their way into the eurozone in 2001 through fiddling the figures, enjoyed the rising living standards for years, and cannot now expect the Germans and others to pick up the bill.The conservative Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, a supporter of the Merkel centre-right coalition, put it like this on its frontpage: \"The Greeks are taking to the streets to protest against raising the retirement age from 61 to 63. Are the Germans now supposed to work until 69 and not 67 so the Greeks can enjoy early retirement?\"Such is German opposition to bailing out Greece, that Merkel, according to senior European diplomats, went into the summit highly ambivalent about even having the Greek emergency on the agenda.There were two crucial meetings before the summit began \u2013 a breakfast with the Spanish and Luxembourg prime ministers, current EU and eurozone presidents, and the heads of the European commission, European Central Bank, and the man now in charge of EU summits, Van Rompuy. Merkel, Sarkozy, Van Rompuy, and Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso, commission chief, then met George Papandreou, the Greek prime minister. Diplomatic sources said Merkel was pressed to agree a bailout. She resisted.But she bowed to the consensus, albeit reluctantly, that the nuisances on the financial markets had to be appeased and sent a signal. So the 27 government \u00adleaders pledged to ensure the euro's stability \"if needed\", but stressed that Athens had not proffered a begging bowl.Had they been asked (referendums are banned in Germany because of nasty experiences with them under the Nazis), Germans would never have sacrificed their cherished D-mark for the euro 11 years ago. At the time, single currency opponents ran scare campaigns warning about the dangers posed by linking up with the \"spaghetti money\" of southern Europe. Now they see their currency jeopardised by southern European profligacy.If push comes to shove and Greece edges towards default, Merkel may need to change her tune. As Europe's biggest economy Germany also benefits enormously from the eurozone and the captive market for its goods. The Berlin strategy is to buy time, hope speculation against the euro will abate, that Athens will do a Dublin. It is not only the markets that are gambling.", "tags": ["Greece", "Euro", "European Union", "Business", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Europe"], "title": "Germany demands austerity, not bailout, for spendthrift Athens"},{"date": "2010-03-18T10:40:10Z", "country": "germany", "content": "George Monbiot's third article on government grants for domestic solar panels ignores the\u00a0errors that I and others have protested about in the opening assertion in his first article. He alleged that the UK government's feed-in tariff regime is \"about to transfer \u00a38.6bn from the poor to the middle classes\". In saying that, he managed to get three things wrong. The actual sum raised from the tariff levy from all electricity consumers, not just households, to 2030 will be \u00a36.7bn; it will be spread over 20 years; and it will be more than offset \u2013 if the government is true to its word \u2013 by energy efficiency savings stimulated in parallel market-building schemes.Yet we see no retraction in George's latest, much less an apology for trying to turn feed-in tariffs into\u00a0a new form of class war on a false premise.That was just where the problems began in the first article. In his third, he rewords many of his original mistaken views. I address those one by one on my website.The main new item in George's latest involves using a report from what he calls the \"Ruhr University\" to back his assault on the German feed-in tariff programme. He did not tell his readers \u2013 maybe he didn't know \u2013 that this study's \"editorial office\" is RWI, an organisation well known for being a thinktank helpful to the big German energy companies. There is an irony in a campaigner such as George deploying arguments against other campaigners using such a source. Elsewhere in his article George declares that \"I detest the big energy companies that give us our electricity\".Here is what the German ministry for environment, nature conservation and nuclear safety has to say about RWI's arguments against the feed-in tariffs (or the EEG, as they are known in Germany): \"Whereas the International Energy Agency and the European Commission comment that the EEG is an effective and efficient tool, and dozens of countries in the EU and beyond are following the German example, RWI remains stuck in its old way of thinking.\"One of George's restated arguments, echoing RWI, is that Let me reword my original retort, which he chooses to ignore.\u00a0We need to think about how the photovoltaic (PV) bang for buck changes over time as economies of scale reduce costs, and we need to think about spawning a mix of survival technologies, not just one or two that happen to be the cheapest in March 2010.\u00a0Then there is the question of the relative investments in the feed-in regime and other carbon-cutting options, compared to the prize available. If government and business do nothing together to make the UK solar and other tariffs cost-neutral as promised \u2013 an unlikely assumption - the tariffs for all technologies will add a few hundred million pounds a year to the nation's electricity bills.\u00a0Other forms of energy market support will add billions per year to taxpayers bills, with little or no chance of being rendered cost-neutral. Nuclear waste alone will add more than \u00a33bn a year.I asked Dr Rob Gross, a director of the UK Energy Research Centre and co-author of an immense study for the UK government on the cost-effectiveness of low-carbon technologies, to comment on George's latest. He said: \"It is obvious to anyone who knows anything at all about technologies and innovation that PV is one of the most promising in terms of long run cost reductions \u2026 The impact of feed-in tariffs on consumers will be very small compared to the cost of big investments in CCS, grid, nuclear and offshore.\"George argues that the German feed-in tariffs have done little to stimulate innovation in the German solar industry. If George had ever visited a German solar factory, he would have seen plenty of innovation under way. When he speaks of \"clunky old cells\" he\u00a0offers a telling insight into how little he understands of what is going on in the PV industry.I asked Professor Eicke Weber, director of the Fraunhofer Institute, Germany's premier solar research institute, to comment on George's argument that research and development was preferable to feed-in tariffs. Weber responded that it is vital to understand that \"the decreasing prices of PV are driven down not merely by R&D but rather by the increasing market. The learning curve is cost versus total installed volume and shows \u2026 that with each doubling of the globally installed volume, the price comes down by about 20%. This is of course driven by progress in R&D, but this is driven very strongly by market forces\".If we waited until R&D had produced PV capable of generating electricity at today's prices, says Weber, \"it would never happen\".There has been innovation in the German PV industry, and there will be yet more, leading to further incremental improvements in efficiency, design and delivery. But that is always the case in a business revolution. If one had waited for improvements to end in the digital revolution one would still be waiting. So it will be in the solar revolution.George sees little scope for German export of PV, and Today, in a UK PV market a fraction of 1% the size of the German one, we already have a PV export industry of sorts. Crystallox manufactures ingots and wafers \u2013 the raw materials for cells - and exports worldwide. Sharp and Romag manufacture modules for export beyond the currently small domestic market. My company, Solarcentury, manufactures PV tiles and slates for the domestic market and export into Europe. George has ignored all Solarcentury's invitations to visit and see all this. If he had, he would appreciate that there is plenty of scope for British companies to expand into this industry.The most eminent venture capitalist in Silicon Valley, Vinod Khosla, recently said the place will have to be named \"Solar Valley\" within 10 years. This is because the practitioners of the digital revolution are switching en masse into the embryonic solar revolution in the factories that are springing up around Sunnyvale. Given our national design and technology skills, what's to stop a big slug of that revolution being sited in the UK?George makes much of the fact that Asian manufacturers are now exporting cheap PV into Germany. True, the Germans are under great pricing pressure now from the industries they have themselves helped create, with their attractive domestic feed-in tariff, in Asia. But that is globalisation at work. Whether this is a good idea, in a world approaching peak oil, is a whole other debate, and one wherein George and I might find a lot to agree on. But peak oil and the downsides of globalisation actually provide another compelling reason for trying as hard as we can to develop a variety of fully-integrated domestic renewables industries in the UK. And for that we will need feed-in tariffs, for a while.Finally, let me comment on George's premise that anyone who has entered the world of business cannot be trusted, or should have their views discounted compared to \"independents\" such as himself. \"I have no horses in this race,\" George announces, \"I have no products to sell.\"If we believe in the horrors that await a world making little or no effort to cut greenhouse-gas emissions, we all have to back horses. I have gone so far as to set up a company and a charity to back one of my (numerous) favoured horses. As George put it in his book Heat, ", "tags": ["Feed-in tariffs", "Solar power", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "Energy", "Energy industry", "Business", "Energy", "Technology"], "title": "Feed-in tariffs are not suppressing innovation | Jeremy Leggett"},{"date": "2010-06-27T17:25:51Z", "country": "germany", "content": "England are out of the world cup, beaten 4-1 by Germany in a match where the team was consistently outclassed, according to the pundits.It was not the new territory into which Fabio Capello was supposed to lead his squad. This is the heaviest defeat England have known at a World Cup finals, outdoing a 4-2 loss to Uruguay in 1954. That is meaningful mostly as a measure of England's terrible fallibility in defence.But how did they do according to the statistics? Sports analysts Opta are allowing the Datablog to publish their complete world cup match statistics - you can follow their Twitter feed (@optajoe) if you want more.The overall statistics analysis:\u2022 Wayne Rooney has lost the ball by being tackled in possession more often than any other player at the 2010 world cup finals\u2022 Rooney also completed only 55% of his passes for England against Germany - the lowest rate in the game\u2022 Germany scored four goals from six shots on target, while England mustered seven attempts on target\u2022 Manuel Neuer's assist for Klose's goal was the first by a goalkeeper at the world cup since 1966 (Kavazashvili for USSR)\u2022 The last time England conceded four goals in a world cup finals game was in 1954 v Uruguay\u2022 Frank Lampard's free-kick onto the bar was his 37th world cup shot without scoring, more than any other player (1966-2010)We used Many Eyes to map the data from the match. The spreadsheet from Opta includes: match totals, player analysis and passing analysis. What can you do with it?\u2022 DATA: download the full list as a spreadsheetFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Search the world's government datasets\u2022 More environment data\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on TwitterSOURCE: OPTA", "tags": ["Club World Cup", "World Cup 2010", "World Cup 2010 Group C", "England", "Germany", "Fabio Capello", "UK news", "World Cup"], "title": "England v Germany: match statistics and visualisations"},{"date": "2010-06-27T17:25:51Z", "country": "germany", "content": "England are out of the world cup, beaten 4-1 by Germany in a match where the team was consistently outclassed, according to the pundits.It was not the new territory into which Fabio Capello was supposed to lead his squad. This is the heaviest defeat England have known at a World Cup finals, outdoing a 4-2 loss to Uruguay in 1954. That is meaningful mostly as a measure of England's terrible fallibility in defence.But how did they do according to the statistics? Sports analysts Opta are allowing the Datablog to publish their complete world cup match statistics - you can follow their Twitter feed (@optajoe) if you want more.The overall statistics analysis:\u2022 Wayne Rooney has lost the ball by being tackled in possession more often than any other player at the 2010 world cup finals\u2022 Rooney also completed only 55% of his passes for England against Germany - the lowest rate in the game\u2022 Germany scored four goals from six shots on target, while England mustered seven attempts on target\u2022 Manuel Neuer's assist for Klose's goal was the first by a goalkeeper at the world cup since 1966 (Kavazashvili for USSR)\u2022 The last time England conceded four goals in a world cup finals game was in 1954 v Uruguay\u2022 Frank Lampard's free-kick onto the bar was his 37th world cup shot without scoring, more than any other player (1966-2010)We used Many Eyes to map the data from the match. The spreadsheet from Opta includes: match totals, player analysis and passing analysis. What can you do with it?\u2022 DATA: download the full list as a spreadsheetFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Search the world's government datasets\u2022 More environment data\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on TwitterSOURCE: OPTA", "tags": ["Club World Cup", "World Cup 2010", "World Cup 2010 Group C", "England", "Germany", "Fabio Capello", "UK news", "World Cup"], "title": "England v Germany: match statistics and visualisations"},{"date": "2010-06-02T13:30:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Talleyrand once said that the problem with Russia is that it is always both too weak and too strong at the same time. After the upheavals in the eurozone over the Greek bailout and now the resignation of the country's president over military policy, is the same now true of Germany?Germany's position as primus inter pares in both the eurozone and the European Union always underscores her economic and political strength. The bailout for the Greeks boiled down to whether the Germans, inevitably, were prepared to take on the lion's share of the loans. In the end, in last month's fractious Bundestag vote, they did so. But German taxpayers, who (the British often forget) have spent most of the last 20 years bearing the cost of the economic rescue of East Germany, are fed up of spending so much of their money on bailouts for others.Last month's Land election in North Rhine-Westphalia proved there is no political reward to be harvested from good deeds for others. The crisis has left Angela Merkel weakened and with few good options. As a result Germany has one large party, the CDU, which vacillates about doing the right thing and is punished, and another, more diminished party, the SPD, which would once have been ready to do the right thing but is now more interested in profiting from voter anger \u2013 as its ringing abstention in the Bundestag over Greece proved.A similar uncertainty runs through the saga of President Horst K\u00f6hler's resignation this week. All K\u00f6hler actually said in his controversial radio interview was that a large economic power like Germany, with its major export interests (Germany has been the world's biggest exporter, though its position is now threatened by China), must be willing to deploy its military abroad too. This is hardly a shocking thing to say, given that Germany is both a large economic power and that it does deploy its military abroad, in Afghanistan, albeit hesitantly and with misgivings.Equally innocuous was K\u00f6hler's remark that German public opinion is coming to terms with this change \u2013 once anathema in postwar Germany and still tightly constrained by the constitution. But the comments were lethally destabilising and damaging to Germany and Europe. If Europe is to play a role in the world, part of that role has to be military. But it can only play the military part of that role if rich and powerful Germany is a committed partner. France and Britain can't do all the work \u2013 and can't afford to do it nowadays anyway. Once again, Germany's weakness and strength set a confused agenda.It is important to understand Germany's dilemmas, which are real, principled and rooted in the country's uniquely destructive history. But the reality is that these are not dilemmas that will easily be resolved. German taxpayers have given billions of Deutschmarks and euros to other Europeans over the last half-century, mainly while their economy was growing and prosperous.Now that times have become much more difficult, and the eurozone's future is so uncertain, it is almost inevitable that Germany is caught between wanting to strengthen fiscal disciplines across the EU and wanting to leave the poorer nations to their own devices. Each is a destructive option. As Talleyrand's remark about Russia implies, a nation that is simultaneously too weak and strong is not just a problem for itself, but a problem for others too.", "tags": ["Euro", "Greece", "Germany", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: too weak, too strong | Martin Kettle"},{"date": "2010-06-27T17:25:51Z", "country": "germany", "content": "England are out of the world cup, beaten 4-1 by Germany in a match where the team was consistently outclassed, according to the pundits.It was not the new territory into which Fabio Capello was supposed to lead his squad. This is the heaviest defeat England have known at a World Cup finals, outdoing a 4-2 loss to Uruguay in 1954. That is meaningful mostly as a measure of England's terrible fallibility in defence.But how did they do according to the statistics? Sports analysts Opta are allowing the Datablog to publish their complete world cup match statistics - you can follow their Twitter feed (@optajoe) if you want more.The overall statistics analysis:\u2022 Wayne Rooney has lost the ball by being tackled in possession more often than any other player at the 2010 world cup finals\u2022 Rooney also completed only 55% of his passes for England against Germany - the lowest rate in the game\u2022 Germany scored four goals from six shots on target, while England mustered seven attempts on target\u2022 Manuel Neuer's assist for Klose's goal was the first by a goalkeeper at the world cup since 1966 (Kavazashvili for USSR)\u2022 The last time England conceded four goals in a world cup finals game was in 1954 v Uruguay\u2022 Frank Lampard's free-kick onto the bar was his 37th world cup shot without scoring, more than any other player (1966-2010)We used Many Eyes to map the data from the match. The spreadsheet from Opta includes: match totals, player analysis and passing analysis. What can you do with it?\u2022 DATA: download the full list as a spreadsheetFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Search the world's government datasets\u2022 More environment data\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on TwitterSOURCE: OPTA", "tags": ["Club World Cup", "World Cup 2010", "World Cup 2010 Group C", "England", "Germany", "Fabio Capello", "UK news", "World Cup"], "title": "England v Germany: match statistics and visualisations"},{"date": "2010-06-02T13:30:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Talleyrand once said that the problem with Russia is that it is always both too weak and too strong at the same time. After the upheavals in the eurozone over the Greek bailout and now the resignation of the country's president over military policy, is the same now true of Germany?Germany's position as primus inter pares in both the eurozone and the European Union always underscores her economic and political strength. The bailout for the Greeks boiled down to whether the Germans, inevitably, were prepared to take on the lion's share of the loans. In the end, in last month's fractious Bundestag vote, they did so. But German taxpayers, who (the British often forget) have spent most of the last 20 years bearing the cost of the economic rescue of East Germany, are fed up of spending so much of their money on bailouts for others.Last month's Land election in North Rhine-Westphalia proved there is no political reward to be harvested from good deeds for others. The crisis has left Angela Merkel weakened and with few good options. As a result Germany has one large party, the CDU, which vacillates about doing the right thing and is punished, and another, more diminished party, the SPD, which would once have been ready to do the right thing but is now more interested in profiting from voter anger \u2013 as its ringing abstention in the Bundestag over Greece proved.A similar uncertainty runs through the saga of President Horst K\u00f6hler's resignation this week. All K\u00f6hler actually said in his controversial radio interview was that a large economic power like Germany, with its major export interests (Germany has been the world's biggest exporter, though its position is now threatened by China), must be willing to deploy its military abroad too. This is hardly a shocking thing to say, given that Germany is both a large economic power and that it does deploy its military abroad, in Afghanistan, albeit hesitantly and with misgivings.Equally innocuous was K\u00f6hler's remark that German public opinion is coming to terms with this change \u2013 once anathema in postwar Germany and still tightly constrained by the constitution. But the comments were lethally destabilising and damaging to Germany and Europe. If Europe is to play a role in the world, part of that role has to be military. But it can only play the military part of that role if rich and powerful Germany is a committed partner. France and Britain can't do all the work \u2013 and can't afford to do it nowadays anyway. Once again, Germany's weakness and strength set a confused agenda.It is important to understand Germany's dilemmas, which are real, principled and rooted in the country's uniquely destructive history. But the reality is that these are not dilemmas that will easily be resolved. German taxpayers have given billions of Deutschmarks and euros to other Europeans over the last half-century, mainly while their economy was growing and prosperous.Now that times have become much more difficult, and the eurozone's future is so uncertain, it is almost inevitable that Germany is caught between wanting to strengthen fiscal disciplines across the EU and wanting to leave the poorer nations to their own devices. Each is a destructive option. As Talleyrand's remark about Russia implies, a nation that is simultaneously too weak and strong is not just a problem for itself, but a problem for others too.", "tags": ["Euro", "Greece", "Germany", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: too weak, too strong | Martin Kettle"},{"date": "2010-05-21T15:36:50Z", "country": "germany", "content": "OK, it's a hard life, I know, but I'm in Berlin this week to watch the Berlin Philharmonic, a trip that will end up as one chapter of the book I'm writing on how the world's great orchestras and conductors create their performances. I've been watching how conductor Simon Rattle puts together a programme of Sibelius's last three symphonies, and talking to the players about their feelings about this music, about how they collaborate with their conductors, and about their identity as an ensemble of 128 virtuosos who somehow manage to create a coherent orchestral entity of indescribable intensity when they play together.There are a couple of concerts still to go, but last night's first performance of Sibelius 5, 6, and 7 (Rattle follows Paavo Berglund's example and plays the Sixth and Seventh without a break, creating a sort of meta-five-movement symphony) was fascinating. It's astonishing from a British perspective, but this is music that this orchestra hardly knows, apart from a handful of players who have come from UK orchestras, or the couple of musicians who happen to be Finnish. There's enormous prejudice against Sibelius in Germany after Theodor Adorno's demolition of him: \"If Sibelius is good, this invalidates the standards of musical quality that have persisted from Bach to Schoenberg,\" an assessment followed up by generations of critics and writers including Ren\u00e9 Leibowitz, who called Sibelius \"the worst composer in the world\". Even the programme note writer for the concerts feels the need to apologise for Sibelius: \"Next to Mahler, [Sibelius is] the most important symphonist of the early 20th century \u2013 if that doesn't sound too over the top.\" It wouldn't to British or American \u2013 or Finnish! \u2013 audiences, but it does to most people over here. Michael Stegemann goes on: \"Is Sibelius's reputation so compromised for all time, that an unprejudiced appreciation of his music is now almost impossible?\" Extraordinary. Imagine reading that in a Proms programme note.But this is the reality of Sibelius's reception in Germany, and it means that generations of German musicians don't know this music. Rattle told me that the composer Heiner Goebbels is coming to the concert on Saturday, because he has never heard these pieces. And, earlier in the season, as part of a cycle of all seven symphonies Rattle has played with the Berliners this year, Sir Simon taught his musicians the Third Symphony. Shockingly, and even shamingly, the orchestra had never played this piece in its entire 128-year history. In fact, it's testament to the strength of Rattle's relationship with his players that he persuaded them to accept the idea of a Sibelius cycle at all: he told me that when he first arrived in 2002 and outlined his plans to play all of Sibelius's symphonies to the orchestral committee, the response was derisive laughter. They suggested he wait a few years.It's been worth the wait. I'm not sure that every player in the Berlin Phil is a total Sibelius-ophile yet, but they play with their usual total commitment (the most precious of all of the Berlin Phil's musical trademarks), and in the process, transform Sibelius and these symphonies. A place like the end of the Sixth Symphony is a gigantic, melancholic hymn in their performance, music that sings with barely suppressed grief and rage. It's a completely different feeling from the gentle resignation a conductor like, say, Osmo V\u00e4nsk\u00e4 finds in the same music. Rattle talked of the end of the Seventh Symphony as a \"scream \u2026 certainly the most depressed C major ever written, you feel it's the end of the world\", and that's how it sounded last night. Using all of the \"dangerous energy\" of the Berlin Philharmonic, the final gigantic cadence was less a resolution of the symphony's structure and more an existential question mark, which found an inscrutable answer in the silence the music faded into in the Philharmonie.For all its power yesterday, one of the Finns in the orchestra, Janne Saksala, who leads the double-basses, said he thinks the third concert will be the best. It's pretty impressive right now, but Janne may well be right, as the orchestra learns more about how the music moves, so different from Austro-German music, and learns to love it more (you can watch that concert live on the Berlin Phil's Digital Concert Hall). Rattle is already a hugely deserving recipient of the Sibelius Medal, which was presented to him before the concert last night by the Finnish ambassador to Germany. In his time with the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra, Sibelius was at the heart of Rattle's repertoire and his reputation. If he can convince his musicians and his audiences here that Sibelius really is as important as Mahler, he will deserve even greater accolades \u2013 but if anyone can do it, it's Rattle.One wee footnote to last night was a piece of inspirational concert planning from Rattle. Just after the rehearsal yesterday morning, a choir started singing in the Philharmonie. \"Who are they?\" Rattle asked, entranced by the sounds a dozen or so young singers were making. It turned out they were Markell's Voices, a chamber choir from Novosibirsk, Siberia, on tour in Germany \u2013 and Rattle quickly booked them to sing in the evening concert, just before the Fifth Symphony. Have a listen to them here \u2013 and don't be put off by some of the English translations, like \"behold, the bridegroom comes in the middle of the night\", or \"four Russian underdish peasant songs\"; this is a unique and affecting vocal tradition. Few other conductors or concert halls would manage to sort out an impromptu choral gig before an orchestral concert \u2013 a tribute to Rattle's spontaneity and powers of persuasion.", "tags": ["Classical music", "Music", "Gustav Mahler", "Jean Sibelius", "Culture", "Berlin Philharmonic"], "title": "Rattle rehabilitates Sibelius in Germany"},{"date": "2010-06-27T17:25:51Z", "country": "germany", "content": "England are out of the world cup, beaten 4-1 by Germany in a match where the team was consistently outclassed, according to the pundits.It was not the new territory into which Fabio Capello was supposed to lead his squad. This is the heaviest defeat England have known at a World Cup finals, outdoing a 4-2 loss to Uruguay in 1954. That is meaningful mostly as a measure of England's terrible fallibility in defence.But how did they do according to the statistics? Sports analysts Opta are allowing the Datablog to publish their complete world cup match statistics - you can follow their Twitter feed (@optajoe) if you want more.The overall statistics analysis:\u2022 Wayne Rooney has lost the ball by being tackled in possession more often than any other player at the 2010 world cup finals\u2022 Rooney also completed only 55% of his passes for England against Germany - the lowest rate in the game\u2022 Germany scored four goals from six shots on target, while England mustered seven attempts on target\u2022 Manuel Neuer's assist for Klose's goal was the first by a goalkeeper at the world cup since 1966 (Kavazashvili for USSR)\u2022 The last time England conceded four goals in a world cup finals game was in 1954 v Uruguay\u2022 Frank Lampard's free-kick onto the bar was his 37th world cup shot without scoring, more than any other player (1966-2010)We used Many Eyes to map the data from the match. The spreadsheet from Opta includes: match totals, player analysis and passing analysis. What can you do with it?\u2022 DATA: download the full list as a spreadsheetFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Search the world's government datasets\u2022 More environment data\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on TwitterSOURCE: OPTA", "tags": ["Club World Cup", "World Cup 2010", "World Cup 2010 Group C", "England", "Germany", "Fabio Capello", "UK news", "World Cup"], "title": "England v Germany: match statistics and visualisations"},{"date": "2010-06-02T13:30:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Talleyrand once said that the problem with Russia is that it is always both too weak and too strong at the same time. After the upheavals in the eurozone over the Greek bailout and now the resignation of the country's president over military policy, is the same now true of Germany?Germany's position as primus inter pares in both the eurozone and the European Union always underscores her economic and political strength. The bailout for the Greeks boiled down to whether the Germans, inevitably, were prepared to take on the lion's share of the loans. In the end, in last month's fractious Bundestag vote, they did so. But German taxpayers, who (the British often forget) have spent most of the last 20 years bearing the cost of the economic rescue of East Germany, are fed up of spending so much of their money on bailouts for others.Last month's Land election in North Rhine-Westphalia proved there is no political reward to be harvested from good deeds for others. The crisis has left Angela Merkel weakened and with few good options. As a result Germany has one large party, the CDU, which vacillates about doing the right thing and is punished, and another, more diminished party, the SPD, which would once have been ready to do the right thing but is now more interested in profiting from voter anger \u2013 as its ringing abstention in the Bundestag over Greece proved.A similar uncertainty runs through the saga of President Horst K\u00f6hler's resignation this week. All K\u00f6hler actually said in his controversial radio interview was that a large economic power like Germany, with its major export interests (Germany has been the world's biggest exporter, though its position is now threatened by China), must be willing to deploy its military abroad too. This is hardly a shocking thing to say, given that Germany is both a large economic power and that it does deploy its military abroad, in Afghanistan, albeit hesitantly and with misgivings.Equally innocuous was K\u00f6hler's remark that German public opinion is coming to terms with this change \u2013 once anathema in postwar Germany and still tightly constrained by the constitution. But the comments were lethally destabilising and damaging to Germany and Europe. If Europe is to play a role in the world, part of that role has to be military. But it can only play the military part of that role if rich and powerful Germany is a committed partner. France and Britain can't do all the work \u2013 and can't afford to do it nowadays anyway. Once again, Germany's weakness and strength set a confused agenda.It is important to understand Germany's dilemmas, which are real, principled and rooted in the country's uniquely destructive history. But the reality is that these are not dilemmas that will easily be resolved. German taxpayers have given billions of Deutschmarks and euros to other Europeans over the last half-century, mainly while their economy was growing and prosperous.Now that times have become much more difficult, and the eurozone's future is so uncertain, it is almost inevitable that Germany is caught between wanting to strengthen fiscal disciplines across the EU and wanting to leave the poorer nations to their own devices. Each is a destructive option. As Talleyrand's remark about Russia implies, a nation that is simultaneously too weak and strong is not just a problem for itself, but a problem for others too.", "tags": ["Euro", "Greece", "Germany", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: too weak, too strong | Martin Kettle"},{"date": "2010-05-21T15:36:50Z", "country": "germany", "content": "OK, it's a hard life, I know, but I'm in Berlin this week to watch the Berlin Philharmonic, a trip that will end up as one chapter of the book I'm writing on how the world's great orchestras and conductors create their performances. I've been watching how conductor Simon Rattle puts together a programme of Sibelius's last three symphonies, and talking to the players about their feelings about this music, about how they collaborate with their conductors, and about their identity as an ensemble of 128 virtuosos who somehow manage to create a coherent orchestral entity of indescribable intensity when they play together.There are a couple of concerts still to go, but last night's first performance of Sibelius 5, 6, and 7 (Rattle follows Paavo Berglund's example and plays the Sixth and Seventh without a break, creating a sort of meta-five-movement symphony) was fascinating. It's astonishing from a British perspective, but this is music that this orchestra hardly knows, apart from a handful of players who have come from UK orchestras, or the couple of musicians who happen to be Finnish. There's enormous prejudice against Sibelius in Germany after Theodor Adorno's demolition of him: \"If Sibelius is good, this invalidates the standards of musical quality that have persisted from Bach to Schoenberg,\" an assessment followed up by generations of critics and writers including Ren\u00e9 Leibowitz, who called Sibelius \"the worst composer in the world\". Even the programme note writer for the concerts feels the need to apologise for Sibelius: \"Next to Mahler, [Sibelius is] the most important symphonist of the early 20th century \u2013 if that doesn't sound too over the top.\" It wouldn't to British or American \u2013 or Finnish! \u2013 audiences, but it does to most people over here. Michael Stegemann goes on: \"Is Sibelius's reputation so compromised for all time, that an unprejudiced appreciation of his music is now almost impossible?\" Extraordinary. Imagine reading that in a Proms programme note.But this is the reality of Sibelius's reception in Germany, and it means that generations of German musicians don't know this music. Rattle told me that the composer Heiner Goebbels is coming to the concert on Saturday, because he has never heard these pieces. And, earlier in the season, as part of a cycle of all seven symphonies Rattle has played with the Berliners this year, Sir Simon taught his musicians the Third Symphony. Shockingly, and even shamingly, the orchestra had never played this piece in its entire 128-year history. In fact, it's testament to the strength of Rattle's relationship with his players that he persuaded them to accept the idea of a Sibelius cycle at all: he told me that when he first arrived in 2002 and outlined his plans to play all of Sibelius's symphonies to the orchestral committee, the response was derisive laughter. They suggested he wait a few years.It's been worth the wait. I'm not sure that every player in the Berlin Phil is a total Sibelius-ophile yet, but they play with their usual total commitment (the most precious of all of the Berlin Phil's musical trademarks), and in the process, transform Sibelius and these symphonies. A place like the end of the Sixth Symphony is a gigantic, melancholic hymn in their performance, music that sings with barely suppressed grief and rage. It's a completely different feeling from the gentle resignation a conductor like, say, Osmo V\u00e4nsk\u00e4 finds in the same music. Rattle talked of the end of the Seventh Symphony as a \"scream \u2026 certainly the most depressed C major ever written, you feel it's the end of the world\", and that's how it sounded last night. Using all of the \"dangerous energy\" of the Berlin Philharmonic, the final gigantic cadence was less a resolution of the symphony's structure and more an existential question mark, which found an inscrutable answer in the silence the music faded into in the Philharmonie.For all its power yesterday, one of the Finns in the orchestra, Janne Saksala, who leads the double-basses, said he thinks the third concert will be the best. It's pretty impressive right now, but Janne may well be right, as the orchestra learns more about how the music moves, so different from Austro-German music, and learns to love it more (you can watch that concert live on the Berlin Phil's Digital Concert Hall). Rattle is already a hugely deserving recipient of the Sibelius Medal, which was presented to him before the concert last night by the Finnish ambassador to Germany. In his time with the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra, Sibelius was at the heart of Rattle's repertoire and his reputation. If he can convince his musicians and his audiences here that Sibelius really is as important as Mahler, he will deserve even greater accolades \u2013 but if anyone can do it, it's Rattle.One wee footnote to last night was a piece of inspirational concert planning from Rattle. Just after the rehearsal yesterday morning, a choir started singing in the Philharmonie. \"Who are they?\" Rattle asked, entranced by the sounds a dozen or so young singers were making. It turned out they were Markell's Voices, a chamber choir from Novosibirsk, Siberia, on tour in Germany \u2013 and Rattle quickly booked them to sing in the evening concert, just before the Fifth Symphony. Have a listen to them here \u2013 and don't be put off by some of the English translations, like \"behold, the bridegroom comes in the middle of the night\", or \"four Russian underdish peasant songs\"; this is a unique and affecting vocal tradition. Few other conductors or concert halls would manage to sort out an impromptu choral gig before an orchestral concert \u2013 a tribute to Rattle's spontaneity and powers of persuasion.", "tags": ["Classical music", "Music", "Gustav Mahler", "Jean Sibelius", "Culture", "Berlin Philharmonic"], "title": "Rattle rehabilitates Sibelius in Germany"},{"date": "2010-06-26T23:04:28Z", "country": "germany", "content": "World Cup Final 1966, WembleyA late German goal levelled the scores 2-2 and took the match into extra time. Geoff Hurst, was awarded a goal in the first half of extra time after match officials judged his shot on goal that bounced down from the crossbar had gone over the line, prompting a furore among German fans. The goal to seal the match England 4, Germany 2 \u2013 part of Hurst's hat-trick \u2013 came after fans began to spill on to the field, thinking the game was over. BBC Television commentator Kenneth Wolstenholme earned a place in broadcasting history when he shouted: \"They think it's all over... it is now!\".World Cup Quarter Final 1970, Mexico. England were 2-0 up, but Franz Beckenbauer and Uwe Seeler equalised in the second half. Gerd M\u00fcller scored in extra time to give the Germans a 3-2 win. Many pundits believed England had been severely weakened by losing goalkeeper, Gordon Banks to illness before the match. Conspiracy theorists say he was poisoned.Semi final World Cup 1990, ItalyGary Lineker equalised for England in the 80th minute and the match remained 1-1 until the end of extra time meaning a penalty shoot-out, England's first encounter with the misery of spot kicks. West Germany won 4-3 after misses from Stuart Pearce and Chris Waddle, above.Semi Final European Championship 1996, WembleyEngland had taken the lead against a unified German team through the tournament's top scorer, Alan Shearer. Stefan Kuntz equalised for Germany and the score remained at 1-1 until the end of extra time. In another penalty shoot-out, all five England penalty-takers and all their German counterparts were successful. In the \"sudden death\" shoot-out Gareth Southgate missed for England and Andreas M\u00f6ller scored for Germany. Germany went on to win the tournam ent.World Cup qualifying match 2001, Munich Under their first foreign coach, Sven-G\u00f6ran Eriksson, England were not expected to perform well, but a Michael Owen hat-trick ensured they won 5-1 and eventually qualify for the World Cup as group winners. Karl-Heinz Rummenigge said: \"This is a new Waterloo for us.\"", "tags": ["UK news", "World Cup 2010", "England", "Germany", "World Cup"], "title": "England v Germany: A history of rivalry"},{"date": "2010-06-27T17:25:51Z", "country": "germany", "content": "England are out of the world cup, beaten 4-1 by Germany in a match where the team was consistently outclassed, according to the pundits.It was not the new territory into which Fabio Capello was supposed to lead his squad. This is the heaviest defeat England have known at a World Cup finals, outdoing a 4-2 loss to Uruguay in 1954. That is meaningful mostly as a measure of England's terrible fallibility in defence.But how did they do according to the statistics? Sports analysts Opta are allowing the Datablog to publish their complete world cup match statistics - you can follow their Twitter feed (@optajoe) if you want more.The overall statistics analysis:\u2022 Wayne Rooney has lost the ball by being tackled in possession more often than any other player at the 2010 world cup finals\u2022 Rooney also completed only 55% of his passes for England against Germany - the lowest rate in the game\u2022 Germany scored four goals from six shots on target, while England mustered seven attempts on target\u2022 Manuel Neuer's assist for Klose's goal was the first by a goalkeeper at the world cup since 1966 (Kavazashvili for USSR)\u2022 The last time England conceded four goals in a world cup finals game was in 1954 v Uruguay\u2022 Frank Lampard's free-kick onto the bar was his 37th world cup shot without scoring, more than any other player (1966-2010)We used Many Eyes to map the data from the match. The spreadsheet from Opta includes: match totals, player analysis and passing analysis. What can you do with it?\u2022 DATA: download the full list as a spreadsheetFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Search the world's government datasets\u2022 More environment data\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on TwitterSOURCE: OPTA", "tags": ["Club World Cup", "World Cup 2010", "World Cup 2010 Group C", "England", "Germany", "Fabio Capello", "UK news", "World Cup"], "title": "England v Germany: match statistics and visualisations"},{"date": "2010-06-02T13:30:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Talleyrand once said that the problem with Russia is that it is always both too weak and too strong at the same time. After the upheavals in the eurozone over the Greek bailout and now the resignation of the country's president over military policy, is the same now true of Germany?Germany's position as primus inter pares in both the eurozone and the European Union always underscores her economic and political strength. The bailout for the Greeks boiled down to whether the Germans, inevitably, were prepared to take on the lion's share of the loans. In the end, in last month's fractious Bundestag vote, they did so. But German taxpayers, who (the British often forget) have spent most of the last 20 years bearing the cost of the economic rescue of East Germany, are fed up of spending so much of their money on bailouts for others.Last month's Land election in North Rhine-Westphalia proved there is no political reward to be harvested from good deeds for others. The crisis has left Angela Merkel weakened and with few good options. As a result Germany has one large party, the CDU, which vacillates about doing the right thing and is punished, and another, more diminished party, the SPD, which would once have been ready to do the right thing but is now more interested in profiting from voter anger \u2013 as its ringing abstention in the Bundestag over Greece proved.A similar uncertainty runs through the saga of President Horst K\u00f6hler's resignation this week. All K\u00f6hler actually said in his controversial radio interview was that a large economic power like Germany, with its major export interests (Germany has been the world's biggest exporter, though its position is now threatened by China), must be willing to deploy its military abroad too. This is hardly a shocking thing to say, given that Germany is both a large economic power and that it does deploy its military abroad, in Afghanistan, albeit hesitantly and with misgivings.Equally innocuous was K\u00f6hler's remark that German public opinion is coming to terms with this change \u2013 once anathema in postwar Germany and still tightly constrained by the constitution. But the comments were lethally destabilising and damaging to Germany and Europe. If Europe is to play a role in the world, part of that role has to be military. But it can only play the military part of that role if rich and powerful Germany is a committed partner. France and Britain can't do all the work \u2013 and can't afford to do it nowadays anyway. Once again, Germany's weakness and strength set a confused agenda.It is important to understand Germany's dilemmas, which are real, principled and rooted in the country's uniquely destructive history. But the reality is that these are not dilemmas that will easily be resolved. German taxpayers have given billions of Deutschmarks and euros to other Europeans over the last half-century, mainly while their economy was growing and prosperous.Now that times have become much more difficult, and the eurozone's future is so uncertain, it is almost inevitable that Germany is caught between wanting to strengthen fiscal disciplines across the EU and wanting to leave the poorer nations to their own devices. Each is a destructive option. As Talleyrand's remark about Russia implies, a nation that is simultaneously too weak and strong is not just a problem for itself, but a problem for others too.", "tags": ["Euro", "Greece", "Germany", "Politics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany: too weak, too strong | Martin Kettle"},{"date": "2010-05-21T15:36:50Z", "country": "germany", "content": "OK, it's a hard life, I know, but I'm in Berlin this week to watch the Berlin Philharmonic, a trip that will end up as one chapter of the book I'm writing on how the world's great orchestras and conductors create their performances. I've been watching how conductor Simon Rattle puts together a programme of Sibelius's last three symphonies, and talking to the players about their feelings about this music, about how they collaborate with their conductors, and about their identity as an ensemble of 128 virtuosos who somehow manage to create a coherent orchestral entity of indescribable intensity when they play together.There are a couple of concerts still to go, but last night's first performance of Sibelius 5, 6, and 7 (Rattle follows Paavo Berglund's example and plays the Sixth and Seventh without a break, creating a sort of meta-five-movement symphony) was fascinating. It's astonishing from a British perspective, but this is music that this orchestra hardly knows, apart from a handful of players who have come from UK orchestras, or the couple of musicians who happen to be Finnish. There's enormous prejudice against Sibelius in Germany after Theodor Adorno's demolition of him: \"If Sibelius is good, this invalidates the standards of musical quality that have persisted from Bach to Schoenberg,\" an assessment followed up by generations of critics and writers including Ren\u00e9 Leibowitz, who called Sibelius \"the worst composer in the world\". Even the programme note writer for the concerts feels the need to apologise for Sibelius: \"Next to Mahler, [Sibelius is] the most important symphonist of the early 20th century \u2013 if that doesn't sound too over the top.\" It wouldn't to British or American \u2013 or Finnish! \u2013 audiences, but it does to most people over here. Michael Stegemann goes on: \"Is Sibelius's reputation so compromised for all time, that an unprejudiced appreciation of his music is now almost impossible?\" Extraordinary. Imagine reading that in a Proms programme note.But this is the reality of Sibelius's reception in Germany, and it means that generations of German musicians don't know this music. Rattle told me that the composer Heiner Goebbels is coming to the concert on Saturday, because he has never heard these pieces. And, earlier in the season, as part of a cycle of all seven symphonies Rattle has played with the Berliners this year, Sir Simon taught his musicians the Third Symphony. Shockingly, and even shamingly, the orchestra had never played this piece in its entire 128-year history. In fact, it's testament to the strength of Rattle's relationship with his players that he persuaded them to accept the idea of a Sibelius cycle at all: he told me that when he first arrived in 2002 and outlined his plans to play all of Sibelius's symphonies to the orchestral committee, the response was derisive laughter. They suggested he wait a few years.It's been worth the wait. I'm not sure that every player in the Berlin Phil is a total Sibelius-ophile yet, but they play with their usual total commitment (the most precious of all of the Berlin Phil's musical trademarks), and in the process, transform Sibelius and these symphonies. A place like the end of the Sixth Symphony is a gigantic, melancholic hymn in their performance, music that sings with barely suppressed grief and rage. It's a completely different feeling from the gentle resignation a conductor like, say, Osmo V\u00e4nsk\u00e4 finds in the same music. Rattle talked of the end of the Seventh Symphony as a \"scream \u2026 certainly the most depressed C major ever written, you feel it's the end of the world\", and that's how it sounded last night. Using all of the \"dangerous energy\" of the Berlin Philharmonic, the final gigantic cadence was less a resolution of the symphony's structure and more an existential question mark, which found an inscrutable answer in the silence the music faded into in the Philharmonie.For all its power yesterday, one of the Finns in the orchestra, Janne Saksala, who leads the double-basses, said he thinks the third concert will be the best. It's pretty impressive right now, but Janne may well be right, as the orchestra learns more about how the music moves, so different from Austro-German music, and learns to love it more (you can watch that concert live on the Berlin Phil's Digital Concert Hall). Rattle is already a hugely deserving recipient of the Sibelius Medal, which was presented to him before the concert last night by the Finnish ambassador to Germany. In his time with the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra, Sibelius was at the heart of Rattle's repertoire and his reputation. If he can convince his musicians and his audiences here that Sibelius really is as important as Mahler, he will deserve even greater accolades \u2013 but if anyone can do it, it's Rattle.One wee footnote to last night was a piece of inspirational concert planning from Rattle. Just after the rehearsal yesterday morning, a choir started singing in the Philharmonie. \"Who are they?\" Rattle asked, entranced by the sounds a dozen or so young singers were making. It turned out they were Markell's Voices, a chamber choir from Novosibirsk, Siberia, on tour in Germany \u2013 and Rattle quickly booked them to sing in the evening concert, just before the Fifth Symphony. Have a listen to them here \u2013 and don't be put off by some of the English translations, like \"behold, the bridegroom comes in the middle of the night\", or \"four Russian underdish peasant songs\"; this is a unique and affecting vocal tradition. Few other conductors or concert halls would manage to sort out an impromptu choral gig before an orchestral concert \u2013 a tribute to Rattle's spontaneity and powers of persuasion.", "tags": ["Classical music", "Music", "Gustav Mahler", "Jean Sibelius", "Culture", "Berlin Philharmonic"], "title": "Rattle rehabilitates Sibelius in Germany"},{"date": "2010-06-26T23:04:28Z", "country": "germany", "content": "World Cup Final 1966, WembleyA late German goal levelled the scores 2-2 and took the match into extra time. Geoff Hurst, was awarded a goal in the first half of extra time after match officials judged his shot on goal that bounced down from the crossbar had gone over the line, prompting a furore among German fans. The goal to seal the match England 4, Germany 2 \u2013 part of Hurst's hat-trick \u2013 came after fans began to spill on to the field, thinking the game was over. BBC Television commentator Kenneth Wolstenholme earned a place in broadcasting history when he shouted: \"They think it's all over... it is now!\".World Cup Quarter Final 1970, Mexico. England were 2-0 up, but Franz Beckenbauer and Uwe Seeler equalised in the second half. Gerd M\u00fcller scored in extra time to give the Germans a 3-2 win. Many pundits believed England had been severely weakened by losing goalkeeper, Gordon Banks to illness before the match. Conspiracy theorists say he was poisoned.Semi final World Cup 1990, ItalyGary Lineker equalised for England in the 80th minute and the match remained 1-1 until the end of extra time meaning a penalty shoot-out, England's first encounter with the misery of spot kicks. West Germany won 4-3 after misses from Stuart Pearce and Chris Waddle, above.Semi Final European Championship 1996, WembleyEngland had taken the lead against a unified German team through the tournament's top scorer, Alan Shearer. Stefan Kuntz equalised for Germany and the score remained at 1-1 until the end of extra time. In another penalty shoot-out, all five England penalty-takers and all their German counterparts were successful. In the \"sudden death\" shoot-out Gareth Southgate missed for England and Andreas M\u00f6ller scored for Germany. Germany went on to win the tournam ent.World Cup qualifying match 2001, Munich Under their first foreign coach, Sven-G\u00f6ran Eriksson, England were not expected to perform well, but a Michael Owen hat-trick ensured they won 5-1 and eventually qualify for the World Cup as group winners. Karl-Heinz Rummenigge said: \"This is a new Waterloo for us.\"", "tags": ["UK news", "World Cup 2010", "England", "Germany", "World Cup"], "title": "England v Germany: A history of rivalry"},{"date": "2010-06-26T08:00:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany-bashing due to the euro crisis has become something of a vogue. The French have been at it for some time, and earlier this week, the US also sent out worried signals about German demands for austerity in the eurozone before growth was achieved. Then George Soros weighed in with a very strong speech attacking such German policy as a danger to the EU itself \u2013 a speech given in the Humboldt University in the heart of Berlin, no less. And if all this were not enough, then Helmut Schmidt, the 92-year-old former German chancellor, also gave an interview attacking current German foreign policy as having a tendency towards \"Wilhelmine pomposity\" \u2013 a clear reference to the misguided tendencies that led to the first world war.Clearly feeling the pressure, and ahead of the G8 and G20 summits this weekend, the German finance minister, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, published a strong rebuttal of recent economic arguments in the FT. In the article, he insists both that German policy was based on sound economic principles, and that the \"German government knows it has a responsibility to promote growth in Europe and the world\". However, he also noted that Germany as a state, and German consumers particularly, have an \"aversion to deficits and inflationary fears, which have their roots in German history in the past century\" \u2013 and therein, effectively, lies the problem.Both the criticism of Germany, and its strong defence, are partly about economics, but also about history and politics \u2013 and that is a potent mix, especially in Europe.The first signs of the issue were evident in the negotiations on the Greek sovereign debt crisis, which dragged on from January to May this year. While France and other eurozone member states were in favour of shoring up the debt \u2013 and effectively bailing Greece out \u2013 Germany was adamantly against it. Quite logically, Germany stated that it was anywhere from unfair to impossible to expect the prudent German taxpayers to fund the debts of the profligate Greeks \u2013 which, given that Germany has the largest economy in Europe, would be largely the case. No one really disagreed with this analysis, so much as with its corollary: given the structure of the eurozone, which bound all members together, there were only two solutions outside of a bailout: either Greece or Germany leaves the eurozone. Since the political consequences of both options were too horrific to contemplate, Germany eventually agreed to the bailout \u2013 but the lapsed time had jacked up the price to the stunning total of \u20ac750bn, coupled with very stringent German demands on the amassing and distribution of the funds. These demands \u2013 which are the core of the austerity moves attacked by France, the US and George Soros \u2013 are not only basic to German economic philosophy, but were also intended to signal that Germany had moved away from being the indulgent EU paymaster. As the German interior minister, Thomas de Maiziere, then warned: \"Our European friends have to come to terms with the fact that Germany is now defending its national interests in the EU, just as France or Britain have always done.\"This is a bold statement, which is apparently forward-looking \u2013 yet also suggests that, in the past, Germany shut up and paid up in order to repent for its sins, and that, in so doing, it denied its own national interests. This is a deceptive interpretation: over the years, Germany did pay massive amounts, partly because it has always been the largest economy and undoubtedly also for penance; but it also bought off those who feared its reunification. At the time, all these reasons were seen, and still remain, primarily German national interests, such as the common market, international respectability and the recreation of the largest and richest state in Europe.Then there is the matter of the euro: in the current German reading, it is the rest of the eurozone that has benefitted from membership, while Germany \"sacrificed\" its strong Deutschmark. At the same time, pure national discipline has landed Germany with a massive trade surplus of \u20ac134bn, while its eurozone colleagues shirked the discipline and ended up with massive deficits, leaving poor Germany to pick up the pieces.Maybe. But it is also worth noting that more than 85% of the surplus \u2013 some \u20ac115bn \u2013 come from trade in the EU. As EU Commission President Manuel Barroso, a man not noted for his boldness, put it: \"Germany was until now a big winner from the euro. I find that more politicians in Germany should make that clear.\"The euro crisis, like the larger global financial crisis, has exposed massive fault lines not only in economic structures, but also in political and cultural ones. For Germany, this may be perceived as a struggle between a modern vision of itself, independent from its troubled history and the restrictions of the EU and the eurozone, and a vision perennially blighted by the inflationary and political horrors of the post first world war era.An internal visionary struggle is an honourable pursuit, but Germany cannot expect the rest of the world, and especially not its EU colleagues, to accept its modern vision that diminishes, and potentially nullifies, history \u2013 but then fall back on historical justifications when it feels itself trapped.History is not a game: playing with it, especially in Europe, bodes extremely ill.", "tags": ["Germany", "European Union", "World news", "Economics", "Economic policy", "Business", "Euro", "G20", "G8", "Financial crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Germany feels the weight of history | Ilana Bet-El"},{"date": "2010-07-31T11:53:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A memorial service has been held in Germany for the 21 people crushed to death at the Love Parade techno music festival last weekend.Hundreds of mourners, including the chancellor, Angela Merkel, attended a service of commemoration at Salvator church. Thousands more watched live coverage of the service on screens at a football stadium and a dozen other churches in the western city of Duisburg. Several TV stations also covered the service, and flags across the country flew at half mast.The ceremony was led by Roman Catholic and Lutheran Protestant clerics representing Germany's two main denominations.\"The Love Parade was danced to death,\" Nikolaus Schneider, the head of the Rhineland Lutheran church assembly, said in his sermon. \"In the middle of a celebration of lust for life, death showed its ugly face to all of us.\"Franz-Josef Overbeck, the Catholic bishop of the neighbouring city of Essen, said: \"Life can be so oppositional: one moment there is a party, the next moment we are lying helplessly on the ground.\"We want to stir up our life in secure ways, but don't have it under control.\"After the sermons, a group of rescue workers who helped save people crushed in the crowded tunnel that was the sole entrance to the festival grounds in the city, lit 21 candles for the victims.Anger about the incident, in which 500 people were injured, has been building in Duisburg in recent days with more than 250 people demanding the resignation of the city's mayor, Adolf Sauerland, at a protest on Thursday.Many blame Sauerland and the city's authorities for failing to plan adequately for the event, whose turnout was initially estimated at 1.4 million people. Safety experts say the event was held on too small a site and criticised the organisers for providing only one entrance. The experts had warned that the 230,000 square metres of party grounds, on the site of a disused railway depot on the outskirts of the Ruhr valley city, were large enough to hold only up to 500,000 revellers.Since the event, however, estimates of how many people attended have been reduced. Spiegel, for instance, reported on 27 July: \"Police now believe around 400,000 people were present as opposed to the 1.4m figure originally provided.\" Revellers at the festival packed into a tunnel that was 100 metres long and 16 metres wide after police closed the grounds owing to overcrowding.It quickly became hot and airless, and scores of people inside collapsed. Others fell an estimated nine metres from a ladder as they were trying to find another route out of the grounds. At least 10 people had to be resuscitated. Medical staff on the scene said many people had died from asphyxiation and back injuries.The 21 people who died were aged 18 to 38, and included revellers from Spain, Australia, Italy, Bosnia, China and Holland as well as Germans.A preliminary report by police investigators, published on Wednesday, accused the festival's organisers of major security breaches that may have led to the crush. But the report was criticised for failing to establish the responsibility of the city's authorities.The Love Parade, first held in Berlin in 1989, has attained a cult status around the world and spawned scores of copycat events from Leeds to Rio de Janeiro. But the head organiser, Rainer Schaller, has announced the discontinuation of the event after the tragic incident.\u2022 This article was amended on 2 August 2010, to make clear that the original Duisberg crowd estimate of 1.4m was subsequently reduced.", "tags": ["Germany", "Festivals", "Music", "Angela Merkel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany mourns Love Parade dead"},{"date": "2010-07-31T11:53:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A memorial service has been held in Germany for the 21 people crushed to death at the Love Parade techno music festival last weekend.Hundreds of mourners, including the chancellor, Angela Merkel, attended a service of commemoration at Salvator church. Thousands more watched live coverage of the service on screens at a football stadium and a dozen other churches in the western city of Duisburg. Several TV stations also covered the service, and flags across the country flew at half mast.The ceremony was led by Roman Catholic and Lutheran Protestant clerics representing Germany's two main denominations.\"The Love Parade was danced to death,\" Nikolaus Schneider, the head of the Rhineland Lutheran church assembly, said in his sermon. \"In the middle of a celebration of lust for life, death showed its ugly face to all of us.\"Franz-Josef Overbeck, the Catholic bishop of the neighbouring city of Essen, said: \"Life can be so oppositional: one moment there is a party, the next moment we are lying helplessly on the ground.\"We want to stir up our life in secure ways, but don't have it under control.\"After the sermons, a group of rescue workers who helped save people crushed in the crowded tunnel that was the sole entrance to the festival grounds in the city, lit 21 candles for the victims.Anger about the incident, in which 500 people were injured, has been building in Duisburg in recent days with more than 250 people demanding the resignation of the city's mayor, Adolf Sauerland, at a protest on Thursday.Many blame Sauerland and the city's authorities for failing to plan adequately for the event, whose turnout was initially estimated at 1.4 million people. Safety experts say the event was held on too small a site and criticised the organisers for providing only one entrance. The experts had warned that the 230,000 square metres of party grounds, on the site of a disused railway depot on the outskirts of the Ruhr valley city, were large enough to hold only up to 500,000 revellers.Since the event, however, estimates of how many people attended have been reduced. Spiegel, for instance, reported on 27 July: \"Police now believe around 400,000 people were present as opposed to the 1.4m figure originally provided.\" Revellers at the festival packed into a tunnel that was 100 metres long and 16 metres wide after police closed the grounds owing to overcrowding.It quickly became hot and airless, and scores of people inside collapsed. Others fell an estimated nine metres from a ladder as they were trying to find another route out of the grounds. At least 10 people had to be resuscitated. Medical staff on the scene said many people had died from asphyxiation and back injuries.The 21 people who died were aged 18 to 38, and included revellers from Spain, Australia, Italy, Bosnia, China and Holland as well as Germans.A preliminary report by police investigators, published on Wednesday, accused the festival's organisers of major security breaches that may have led to the crush. But the report was criticised for failing to establish the responsibility of the city's authorities.The Love Parade, first held in Berlin in 1989, has attained a cult status around the world and spawned scores of copycat events from Leeds to Rio de Janeiro. But the head organiser, Rainer Schaller, has announced the discontinuation of the event after the tragic incident.\u2022 This article was amended on 2 August 2010, to make clear that the original Duisberg crowd estimate of 1.4m was subsequently reduced.", "tags": ["Germany", "Festivals", "Music", "Angela Merkel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany mourns Love Parade dead"},{"date": "2010-09-30T09:11:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Three decades after the Red Army Faction terrorised Germany with a campaign of murders, hijackings and bomb attacks, the last major trial involving one its members opens today, when prosecutors will seek to end the mystery of one the group's most prominent killings.Verena Becker, one of the leading members of the RAF \u2013 also known as the Baader-Meinhof gang \u2013 is due to answer charges that she was involved in the murder of the country's leading public prosecutor, Siegfried Buback, 33 years ago.Becker, 58, had already spent years in prison for other RAF-related crimes including murder, but the case against her was reopened in 2008 after forensic evidence not available to investigators in the late 1970s revealed traces of her DNA on a letter in which the RAF claimed responsibility for Buback's death.She was rearrested last summer, and charged earlier this year with involvement in Buback's murder as well as that of two of his companions who died when the car he was travelling in was sprayed with bullets in the south-western city of Karlsruhe in April 1977.The case has reawakened memories of the bloody RAF campaign that traumatised the country throughout the 1970s and 1980s. Prosecutors hope that the trial will finally uncover the truth about the Buback murder, most notably who pulled the trigger of the gun that killed him, and lay to rest decades of tangled rumour and elaborate conspiracy theories. The RAF disbanded in 1998.The trial, which is taking place in Stuttgart and is expected to last until December, is likely to be an emotional one due to the involvement of Buback's son, Michael, who has extensively researched the murder himself and is convinced that Becker was the \"petite woman\" witnesses saw on the back of the motorbike from which the fatal shots were fired.He also believes that Becker was given special protection by influential figures in the security authorities in return for her co-operation.Becker was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1977 for involvement in other RAF activities, but was pardoned and freed after 12 years.The judge will be called on to take into account intriguing new evidence that is likely to complicate the trial: the defence will present documents suggesting that Becker may not have been in Germany at the time of the murder, but rather in Baghdad.Becker, who after leaving prison trained as an alternative practitioner and now lives in a lakeside district in the most expensive quarter of Berlin and is dependent on state support, is expected to use her right to remain silent throughout the trial. She is understood to have made a pact with other former RAF members at a meeting in 2007 that none of them would reveal details of their alleged crimes.At the time of her arrest she said she had given up her fight, which she referred to as her \"former path\".\"I gave it up a long time ago, because it only caused a lot more suffering,\" she told investigators.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Baader-Meinhof trial opens in Germany"},{"date": "2010-07-31T11:53:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A memorial service has been held in Germany for the 21 people crushed to death at the Love Parade techno music festival last weekend.Hundreds of mourners, including the chancellor, Angela Merkel, attended a service of commemoration at Salvator church. Thousands more watched live coverage of the service on screens at a football stadium and a dozen other churches in the western city of Duisburg. Several TV stations also covered the service, and flags across the country flew at half mast.The ceremony was led by Roman Catholic and Lutheran Protestant clerics representing Germany's two main denominations.\"The Love Parade was danced to death,\" Nikolaus Schneider, the head of the Rhineland Lutheran church assembly, said in his sermon. \"In the middle of a celebration of lust for life, death showed its ugly face to all of us.\"Franz-Josef Overbeck, the Catholic bishop of the neighbouring city of Essen, said: \"Life can be so oppositional: one moment there is a party, the next moment we are lying helplessly on the ground.\"We want to stir up our life in secure ways, but don't have it under control.\"After the sermons, a group of rescue workers who helped save people crushed in the crowded tunnel that was the sole entrance to the festival grounds in the city, lit 21 candles for the victims.Anger about the incident, in which 500 people were injured, has been building in Duisburg in recent days with more than 250 people demanding the resignation of the city's mayor, Adolf Sauerland, at a protest on Thursday.Many blame Sauerland and the city's authorities for failing to plan adequately for the event, whose turnout was initially estimated at 1.4 million people. Safety experts say the event was held on too small a site and criticised the organisers for providing only one entrance. The experts had warned that the 230,000 square metres of party grounds, on the site of a disused railway depot on the outskirts of the Ruhr valley city, were large enough to hold only up to 500,000 revellers.Since the event, however, estimates of how many people attended have been reduced. Spiegel, for instance, reported on 27 July: \"Police now believe around 400,000 people were present as opposed to the 1.4m figure originally provided.\" Revellers at the festival packed into a tunnel that was 100 metres long and 16 metres wide after police closed the grounds owing to overcrowding.It quickly became hot and airless, and scores of people inside collapsed. Others fell an estimated nine metres from a ladder as they were trying to find another route out of the grounds. At least 10 people had to be resuscitated. Medical staff on the scene said many people had died from asphyxiation and back injuries.The 21 people who died were aged 18 to 38, and included revellers from Spain, Australia, Italy, Bosnia, China and Holland as well as Germans.A preliminary report by police investigators, published on Wednesday, accused the festival's organisers of major security breaches that may have led to the crush. But the report was criticised for failing to establish the responsibility of the city's authorities.The Love Parade, first held in Berlin in 1989, has attained a cult status around the world and spawned scores of copycat events from Leeds to Rio de Janeiro. But the head organiser, Rainer Schaller, has announced the discontinuation of the event after the tragic incident.\u2022 This article was amended on 2 August 2010, to make clear that the original Duisberg crowd estimate of 1.4m was subsequently reduced.", "tags": ["Germany", "Festivals", "Music", "Angela Merkel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany mourns Love Parade dead"},{"date": "2010-09-30T09:11:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Three decades after the Red Army Faction terrorised Germany with a campaign of murders, hijackings and bomb attacks, the last major trial involving one its members opens today, when prosecutors will seek to end the mystery of one the group's most prominent killings.Verena Becker, one of the leading members of the RAF \u2013 also known as the Baader-Meinhof gang \u2013 is due to answer charges that she was involved in the murder of the country's leading public prosecutor, Siegfried Buback, 33 years ago.Becker, 58, had already spent years in prison for other RAF-related crimes including murder, but the case against her was reopened in 2008 after forensic evidence not available to investigators in the late 1970s revealed traces of her DNA on a letter in which the RAF claimed responsibility for Buback's death.She was rearrested last summer, and charged earlier this year with involvement in Buback's murder as well as that of two of his companions who died when the car he was travelling in was sprayed with bullets in the south-western city of Karlsruhe in April 1977.The case has reawakened memories of the bloody RAF campaign that traumatised the country throughout the 1970s and 1980s. Prosecutors hope that the trial will finally uncover the truth about the Buback murder, most notably who pulled the trigger of the gun that killed him, and lay to rest decades of tangled rumour and elaborate conspiracy theories. The RAF disbanded in 1998.The trial, which is taking place in Stuttgart and is expected to last until December, is likely to be an emotional one due to the involvement of Buback's son, Michael, who has extensively researched the murder himself and is convinced that Becker was the \"petite woman\" witnesses saw on the back of the motorbike from which the fatal shots were fired.He also believes that Becker was given special protection by influential figures in the security authorities in return for her co-operation.Becker was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1977 for involvement in other RAF activities, but was pardoned and freed after 12 years.The judge will be called on to take into account intriguing new evidence that is likely to complicate the trial: the defence will present documents suggesting that Becker may not have been in Germany at the time of the murder, but rather in Baghdad.Becker, who after leaving prison trained as an alternative practitioner and now lives in a lakeside district in the most expensive quarter of Berlin and is dependent on state support, is expected to use her right to remain silent throughout the trial. She is understood to have made a pact with other former RAF members at a meeting in 2007 that none of them would reveal details of their alleged crimes.At the time of her arrest she said she had given up her fight, which she referred to as her \"former path\".\"I gave it up a long time ago, because it only caused a lot more suffering,\" she told investigators.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Baader-Meinhof trial opens in Germany"},{"date": "2010-09-06T09:05:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has downplayed the significance of the attack on the new identity cards, which store a scan of a user's fingerprints along with a six-digit PIN that can be used to digitally sign official forms, reports The Register.Hackers from the Chaos Computer Club were able to use home scanners that work with the cards to extract personal information including a fingerprint scan and the six-digit PIN from RFID the chip embedded in the cards. The hack was demonstrated on the Plusminus show on German TV channel ARD.But interior minister Thomas de Maizi\u00e8re, interviewed on the programme, said there was no reason to alter the technology or postpone a roll-out of the cards, which are due to be introduced nationally from November.Security experts from the the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) were similarly sanguine about the hack. Jens Bender, a personal identification expert at the BSI, said the card and integrated PIN number offered \"significant security improvement compared to today's standard process of user name and password\", according to English language German news site The Local.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "National security", "Hardware", "Identification"], "title": "Germany downplays biometric ID card hack"},{"date": "2010-07-31T11:53:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A memorial service has been held in Germany for the 21 people crushed to death at the Love Parade techno music festival last weekend.Hundreds of mourners, including the chancellor, Angela Merkel, attended a service of commemoration at Salvator church. Thousands more watched live coverage of the service on screens at a football stadium and a dozen other churches in the western city of Duisburg. Several TV stations also covered the service, and flags across the country flew at half mast.The ceremony was led by Roman Catholic and Lutheran Protestant clerics representing Germany's two main denominations.\"The Love Parade was danced to death,\" Nikolaus Schneider, the head of the Rhineland Lutheran church assembly, said in his sermon. \"In the middle of a celebration of lust for life, death showed its ugly face to all of us.\"Franz-Josef Overbeck, the Catholic bishop of the neighbouring city of Essen, said: \"Life can be so oppositional: one moment there is a party, the next moment we are lying helplessly on the ground.\"We want to stir up our life in secure ways, but don't have it under control.\"After the sermons, a group of rescue workers who helped save people crushed in the crowded tunnel that was the sole entrance to the festival grounds in the city, lit 21 candles for the victims.Anger about the incident, in which 500 people were injured, has been building in Duisburg in recent days with more than 250 people demanding the resignation of the city's mayor, Adolf Sauerland, at a protest on Thursday.Many blame Sauerland and the city's authorities for failing to plan adequately for the event, whose turnout was initially estimated at 1.4 million people. Safety experts say the event was held on too small a site and criticised the organisers for providing only one entrance. The experts had warned that the 230,000 square metres of party grounds, on the site of a disused railway depot on the outskirts of the Ruhr valley city, were large enough to hold only up to 500,000 revellers.Since the event, however, estimates of how many people attended have been reduced. Spiegel, for instance, reported on 27 July: \"Police now believe around 400,000 people were present as opposed to the 1.4m figure originally provided.\" Revellers at the festival packed into a tunnel that was 100 metres long and 16 metres wide after police closed the grounds owing to overcrowding.It quickly became hot and airless, and scores of people inside collapsed. Others fell an estimated nine metres from a ladder as they were trying to find another route out of the grounds. At least 10 people had to be resuscitated. Medical staff on the scene said many people had died from asphyxiation and back injuries.The 21 people who died were aged 18 to 38, and included revellers from Spain, Australia, Italy, Bosnia, China and Holland as well as Germans.A preliminary report by police investigators, published on Wednesday, accused the festival's organisers of major security breaches that may have led to the crush. But the report was criticised for failing to establish the responsibility of the city's authorities.The Love Parade, first held in Berlin in 1989, has attained a cult status around the world and spawned scores of copycat events from Leeds to Rio de Janeiro. But the head organiser, Rainer Schaller, has announced the discontinuation of the event after the tragic incident.\u2022 This article was amended on 2 August 2010, to make clear that the original Duisberg crowd estimate of 1.4m was subsequently reduced.", "tags": ["Germany", "Festivals", "Music", "Angela Merkel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany mourns Love Parade dead"},{"date": "2010-09-30T09:11:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Three decades after the Red Army Faction terrorised Germany with a campaign of murders, hijackings and bomb attacks, the last major trial involving one its members opens today, when prosecutors will seek to end the mystery of one the group's most prominent killings.Verena Becker, one of the leading members of the RAF \u2013 also known as the Baader-Meinhof gang \u2013 is due to answer charges that she was involved in the murder of the country's leading public prosecutor, Siegfried Buback, 33 years ago.Becker, 58, had already spent years in prison for other RAF-related crimes including murder, but the case against her was reopened in 2008 after forensic evidence not available to investigators in the late 1970s revealed traces of her DNA on a letter in which the RAF claimed responsibility for Buback's death.She was rearrested last summer, and charged earlier this year with involvement in Buback's murder as well as that of two of his companions who died when the car he was travelling in was sprayed with bullets in the south-western city of Karlsruhe in April 1977.The case has reawakened memories of the bloody RAF campaign that traumatised the country throughout the 1970s and 1980s. Prosecutors hope that the trial will finally uncover the truth about the Buback murder, most notably who pulled the trigger of the gun that killed him, and lay to rest decades of tangled rumour and elaborate conspiracy theories. The RAF disbanded in 1998.The trial, which is taking place in Stuttgart and is expected to last until December, is likely to be an emotional one due to the involvement of Buback's son, Michael, who has extensively researched the murder himself and is convinced that Becker was the \"petite woman\" witnesses saw on the back of the motorbike from which the fatal shots were fired.He also believes that Becker was given special protection by influential figures in the security authorities in return for her co-operation.Becker was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1977 for involvement in other RAF activities, but was pardoned and freed after 12 years.The judge will be called on to take into account intriguing new evidence that is likely to complicate the trial: the defence will present documents suggesting that Becker may not have been in Germany at the time of the murder, but rather in Baghdad.Becker, who after leaving prison trained as an alternative practitioner and now lives in a lakeside district in the most expensive quarter of Berlin and is dependent on state support, is expected to use her right to remain silent throughout the trial. She is understood to have made a pact with other former RAF members at a meeting in 2007 that none of them would reveal details of their alleged crimes.At the time of her arrest she said she had given up her fight, which she referred to as her \"former path\".\"I gave it up a long time ago, because it only caused a lot more suffering,\" she told investigators.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Baader-Meinhof trial opens in Germany"},{"date": "2010-09-06T09:05:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has downplayed the significance of the attack on the new identity cards, which store a scan of a user's fingerprints along with a six-digit PIN that can be used to digitally sign official forms, reports The Register.Hackers from the Chaos Computer Club were able to use home scanners that work with the cards to extract personal information including a fingerprint scan and the six-digit PIN from RFID the chip embedded in the cards. The hack was demonstrated on the Plusminus show on German TV channel ARD.But interior minister Thomas de Maizi\u00e8re, interviewed on the programme, said there was no reason to alter the technology or postpone a roll-out of the cards, which are due to be introduced nationally from November.Security experts from the the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) were similarly sanguine about the hack. Jens Bender, a personal identification expert at the BSI, said the card and integrated PIN number offered \"significant security improvement compared to today's standard process of user name and password\", according to English language German news site The Local.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "National security", "Hardware", "Identification"], "title": "Germany downplays biometric ID card hack"},{"date": "2010-09-05T23:05:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The uncomfortable truth about Germany's Muslim minority is that for years both ethnic Germans and the Turkish and Kurdish migrant community have preferred to live more or less separately. Germans have not been very welcoming, while Turks and Kurds have not been very interested in integration. This is, or was, hardly surprising. When people of quite different cultures are forced together by circumstance, rather than design, they are likely to rub along with one another in a very limited way, at least at the beginning.What is understandable in the short term, however, is likely to be unwise in the long run, so it is not entirely a bad thing that Thilo Sarrazin has pushed the issue to the top of the popular agenda with his controversial book. This descendant of Huguenot refugees, who also boasts two grandparents of non-German background, is not happy with today's migrants \u2013 who are, he says, welfare dependent, responsible for too much crime, unwilling to learn or speak German, and unwilling to marry Germans. They marry other Turks or Arabs instead and go on to have too many children. He does not wish to see, he adds, a Muslim-dominated Germany. He claims these arguments are supported by official statistics, and this is not entirely untrue. The trouble with his book, apart from its half-baked views on genetics and civilisational characteristics, is that it leaves out the historical context, deals with social problems as if they were deliberate and perverse choices by those of Muslim background, and blames immigrants for situations for which both sides share the blame.It has, nevertheless, gone right to the top of the bestseller list. A considerable number of Germans seem to feel that Mr Sarrazin has given voice to their own views. His sudden prominence is likely to be sustained rather than diminished by the fact that he is in the process of being ejected from his position as a member of the board of the Bundesbank. The German elite's rush to dissociate itself from him is understandable but has had unfortunate consequences. Bundesbank independence, even though it is meant to be fiscal rather than personal, looks somewhat compromised and Mr Sarrazin may achieve a sort of martyr status.The larger problem is that in Germany as elsewhere, mainstream politicians both play to anti-immigrant feeling and deplore it. Even while they subtly exploit the majority's fears, in the name of diversity they tread far too carefully in their dealings with minorities. This is a bad combination at a time when economic pressures are widening and a new selfishness and readiness to blame others is on the rise across Europe.", "tags": ["Germany", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Migrants in Germany: The lives of others  | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-07-31T11:53:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A memorial service has been held in Germany for the 21 people crushed to death at the Love Parade techno music festival last weekend.Hundreds of mourners, including the chancellor, Angela Merkel, attended a service of commemoration at Salvator church. Thousands more watched live coverage of the service on screens at a football stadium and a dozen other churches in the western city of Duisburg. Several TV stations also covered the service, and flags across the country flew at half mast.The ceremony was led by Roman Catholic and Lutheran Protestant clerics representing Germany's two main denominations.\"The Love Parade was danced to death,\" Nikolaus Schneider, the head of the Rhineland Lutheran church assembly, said in his sermon. \"In the middle of a celebration of lust for life, death showed its ugly face to all of us.\"Franz-Josef Overbeck, the Catholic bishop of the neighbouring city of Essen, said: \"Life can be so oppositional: one moment there is a party, the next moment we are lying helplessly on the ground.\"We want to stir up our life in secure ways, but don't have it under control.\"After the sermons, a group of rescue workers who helped save people crushed in the crowded tunnel that was the sole entrance to the festival grounds in the city, lit 21 candles for the victims.Anger about the incident, in which 500 people were injured, has been building in Duisburg in recent days with more than 250 people demanding the resignation of the city's mayor, Adolf Sauerland, at a protest on Thursday.Many blame Sauerland and the city's authorities for failing to plan adequately for the event, whose turnout was initially estimated at 1.4 million people. Safety experts say the event was held on too small a site and criticised the organisers for providing only one entrance. The experts had warned that the 230,000 square metres of party grounds, on the site of a disused railway depot on the outskirts of the Ruhr valley city, were large enough to hold only up to 500,000 revellers.Since the event, however, estimates of how many people attended have been reduced. Spiegel, for instance, reported on 27 July: \"Police now believe around 400,000 people were present as opposed to the 1.4m figure originally provided.\" Revellers at the festival packed into a tunnel that was 100 metres long and 16 metres wide after police closed the grounds owing to overcrowding.It quickly became hot and airless, and scores of people inside collapsed. Others fell an estimated nine metres from a ladder as they were trying to find another route out of the grounds. At least 10 people had to be resuscitated. Medical staff on the scene said many people had died from asphyxiation and back injuries.The 21 people who died were aged 18 to 38, and included revellers from Spain, Australia, Italy, Bosnia, China and Holland as well as Germans.A preliminary report by police investigators, published on Wednesday, accused the festival's organisers of major security breaches that may have led to the crush. But the report was criticised for failing to establish the responsibility of the city's authorities.The Love Parade, first held in Berlin in 1989, has attained a cult status around the world and spawned scores of copycat events from Leeds to Rio de Janeiro. But the head organiser, Rainer Schaller, has announced the discontinuation of the event after the tragic incident.\u2022 This article was amended on 2 August 2010, to make clear that the original Duisberg crowd estimate of 1.4m was subsequently reduced.", "tags": ["Germany", "Festivals", "Music", "Angela Merkel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany mourns Love Parade dead"},{"date": "2010-09-30T09:11:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Three decades after the Red Army Faction terrorised Germany with a campaign of murders, hijackings and bomb attacks, the last major trial involving one its members opens today, when prosecutors will seek to end the mystery of one the group's most prominent killings.Verena Becker, one of the leading members of the RAF \u2013 also known as the Baader-Meinhof gang \u2013 is due to answer charges that she was involved in the murder of the country's leading public prosecutor, Siegfried Buback, 33 years ago.Becker, 58, had already spent years in prison for other RAF-related crimes including murder, but the case against her was reopened in 2008 after forensic evidence not available to investigators in the late 1970s revealed traces of her DNA on a letter in which the RAF claimed responsibility for Buback's death.She was rearrested last summer, and charged earlier this year with involvement in Buback's murder as well as that of two of his companions who died when the car he was travelling in was sprayed with bullets in the south-western city of Karlsruhe in April 1977.The case has reawakened memories of the bloody RAF campaign that traumatised the country throughout the 1970s and 1980s. Prosecutors hope that the trial will finally uncover the truth about the Buback murder, most notably who pulled the trigger of the gun that killed him, and lay to rest decades of tangled rumour and elaborate conspiracy theories. The RAF disbanded in 1998.The trial, which is taking place in Stuttgart and is expected to last until December, is likely to be an emotional one due to the involvement of Buback's son, Michael, who has extensively researched the murder himself and is convinced that Becker was the \"petite woman\" witnesses saw on the back of the motorbike from which the fatal shots were fired.He also believes that Becker was given special protection by influential figures in the security authorities in return for her co-operation.Becker was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1977 for involvement in other RAF activities, but was pardoned and freed after 12 years.The judge will be called on to take into account intriguing new evidence that is likely to complicate the trial: the defence will present documents suggesting that Becker may not have been in Germany at the time of the murder, but rather in Baghdad.Becker, who after leaving prison trained as an alternative practitioner and now lives in a lakeside district in the most expensive quarter of Berlin and is dependent on state support, is expected to use her right to remain silent throughout the trial. She is understood to have made a pact with other former RAF members at a meeting in 2007 that none of them would reveal details of their alleged crimes.At the time of her arrest she said she had given up her fight, which she referred to as her \"former path\".\"I gave it up a long time ago, because it only caused a lot more suffering,\" she told investigators.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Baader-Meinhof trial opens in Germany"},{"date": "2010-09-06T09:05:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has downplayed the significance of the attack on the new identity cards, which store a scan of a user's fingerprints along with a six-digit PIN that can be used to digitally sign official forms, reports The Register.Hackers from the Chaos Computer Club were able to use home scanners that work with the cards to extract personal information including a fingerprint scan and the six-digit PIN from RFID the chip embedded in the cards. The hack was demonstrated on the Plusminus show on German TV channel ARD.But interior minister Thomas de Maizi\u00e8re, interviewed on the programme, said there was no reason to alter the technology or postpone a roll-out of the cards, which are due to be introduced nationally from November.Security experts from the the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) were similarly sanguine about the hack. Jens Bender, a personal identification expert at the BSI, said the card and integrated PIN number offered \"significant security improvement compared to today's standard process of user name and password\", according to English language German news site The Local.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "National security", "Hardware", "Identification"], "title": "Germany downplays biometric ID card hack"},{"date": "2010-09-05T23:05:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The uncomfortable truth about Germany's Muslim minority is that for years both ethnic Germans and the Turkish and Kurdish migrant community have preferred to live more or less separately. Germans have not been very welcoming, while Turks and Kurds have not been very interested in integration. This is, or was, hardly surprising. When people of quite different cultures are forced together by circumstance, rather than design, they are likely to rub along with one another in a very limited way, at least at the beginning.What is understandable in the short term, however, is likely to be unwise in the long run, so it is not entirely a bad thing that Thilo Sarrazin has pushed the issue to the top of the popular agenda with his controversial book. This descendant of Huguenot refugees, who also boasts two grandparents of non-German background, is not happy with today's migrants \u2013 who are, he says, welfare dependent, responsible for too much crime, unwilling to learn or speak German, and unwilling to marry Germans. They marry other Turks or Arabs instead and go on to have too many children. He does not wish to see, he adds, a Muslim-dominated Germany. He claims these arguments are supported by official statistics, and this is not entirely untrue. The trouble with his book, apart from its half-baked views on genetics and civilisational characteristics, is that it leaves out the historical context, deals with social problems as if they were deliberate and perverse choices by those of Muslim background, and blames immigrants for situations for which both sides share the blame.It has, nevertheless, gone right to the top of the bestseller list. A considerable number of Germans seem to feel that Mr Sarrazin has given voice to their own views. His sudden prominence is likely to be sustained rather than diminished by the fact that he is in the process of being ejected from his position as a member of the board of the Bundesbank. The German elite's rush to dissociate itself from him is understandable but has had unfortunate consequences. Bundesbank independence, even though it is meant to be fiscal rather than personal, looks somewhat compromised and Mr Sarrazin may achieve a sort of martyr status.The larger problem is that in Germany as elsewhere, mainstream politicians both play to anti-immigrant feeling and deplore it. Even while they subtly exploit the majority's fears, in the name of diversity they tread far too carefully in their dealings with minorities. This is a bad combination at a time when economic pressures are widening and a new selfishness and readiness to blame others is on the rise across Europe.", "tags": ["Germany", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Migrants in Germany: The lives of others  | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-07-24T16:55:59Z", "country": "germany", "content": "At least 15 people have been killed and dozens injured in a stampede after mass panic broke out at a music festival in Germany, police have said.The deaths occurred in a tunnel at the Love Parade in the city of Duisburg in the west of the country, where thousands had gathered for the annual techno music festival.Thousands of other revellers kept partying at the event near Duesseldorf, unaware of the deadly stampede that started when police tried to block thousands more people from entering the already-jammed grounds.A reporter for German newspaper Bild, Frank Schneider, who was at the festival, said: \"I alone have counted 11 dead, it looked shocking.\"He said the dead were covered with sheets.An 18-year-old festivalgoer, Marius, told Bild: \"There was no escape, people were standing over me like a wall. I was afraid I'd die.\"Another raver told the newspaper: \"I was lucky, found a small gap, but two women next to me died.\"Police confirmed that there were at least 15 deaths. Another 10 people had to be resuscitated, reports said.The German news agency DAPD reported that the stampede broke out after authorities tried to stop thousands of people from entering the area where the parade was being held.The victims were crushed and that emergency workers had trouble getting through to them, the news agency said.The Love Parade was once an institution in Berlin, but has been held in the industrial Ruhr region of western Germany since 2007.The original Berlin Love Parade grew from a 1989 peace demonstration into a huge outdoor celebration of club culture that drew about 1.5 million people at its peak in 1999. But it suffered from financial problems and tensions with city officials in later years, and eventually moved.", "tags": ["Germany", "Festivals", "Europe"], "title": "Festivalgoers killed at Love Parade in Germany"},{"date": "2010-07-31T11:53:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A memorial service has been held in Germany for the 21 people crushed to death at the Love Parade techno music festival last weekend.Hundreds of mourners, including the chancellor, Angela Merkel, attended a service of commemoration at Salvator church. Thousands more watched live coverage of the service on screens at a football stadium and a dozen other churches in the western city of Duisburg. Several TV stations also covered the service, and flags across the country flew at half mast.The ceremony was led by Roman Catholic and Lutheran Protestant clerics representing Germany's two main denominations.\"The Love Parade was danced to death,\" Nikolaus Schneider, the head of the Rhineland Lutheran church assembly, said in his sermon. \"In the middle of a celebration of lust for life, death showed its ugly face to all of us.\"Franz-Josef Overbeck, the Catholic bishop of the neighbouring city of Essen, said: \"Life can be so oppositional: one moment there is a party, the next moment we are lying helplessly on the ground.\"We want to stir up our life in secure ways, but don't have it under control.\"After the sermons, a group of rescue workers who helped save people crushed in the crowded tunnel that was the sole entrance to the festival grounds in the city, lit 21 candles for the victims.Anger about the incident, in which 500 people were injured, has been building in Duisburg in recent days with more than 250 people demanding the resignation of the city's mayor, Adolf Sauerland, at a protest on Thursday.Many blame Sauerland and the city's authorities for failing to plan adequately for the event, whose turnout was initially estimated at 1.4 million people. Safety experts say the event was held on too small a site and criticised the organisers for providing only one entrance. The experts had warned that the 230,000 square metres of party grounds, on the site of a disused railway depot on the outskirts of the Ruhr valley city, were large enough to hold only up to 500,000 revellers.Since the event, however, estimates of how many people attended have been reduced. Spiegel, for instance, reported on 27 July: \"Police now believe around 400,000 people were present as opposed to the 1.4m figure originally provided.\" Revellers at the festival packed into a tunnel that was 100 metres long and 16 metres wide after police closed the grounds owing to overcrowding.It quickly became hot and airless, and scores of people inside collapsed. Others fell an estimated nine metres from a ladder as they were trying to find another route out of the grounds. At least 10 people had to be resuscitated. Medical staff on the scene said many people had died from asphyxiation and back injuries.The 21 people who died were aged 18 to 38, and included revellers from Spain, Australia, Italy, Bosnia, China and Holland as well as Germans.A preliminary report by police investigators, published on Wednesday, accused the festival's organisers of major security breaches that may have led to the crush. But the report was criticised for failing to establish the responsibility of the city's authorities.The Love Parade, first held in Berlin in 1989, has attained a cult status around the world and spawned scores of copycat events from Leeds to Rio de Janeiro. But the head organiser, Rainer Schaller, has announced the discontinuation of the event after the tragic incident.\u2022 This article was amended on 2 August 2010, to make clear that the original Duisberg crowd estimate of 1.4m was subsequently reduced.", "tags": ["Germany", "Festivals", "Music", "Angela Merkel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany mourns Love Parade dead"},{"date": "2010-09-30T09:11:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Three decades after the Red Army Faction terrorised Germany with a campaign of murders, hijackings and bomb attacks, the last major trial involving one its members opens today, when prosecutors will seek to end the mystery of one the group's most prominent killings.Verena Becker, one of the leading members of the RAF \u2013 also known as the Baader-Meinhof gang \u2013 is due to answer charges that she was involved in the murder of the country's leading public prosecutor, Siegfried Buback, 33 years ago.Becker, 58, had already spent years in prison for other RAF-related crimes including murder, but the case against her was reopened in 2008 after forensic evidence not available to investigators in the late 1970s revealed traces of her DNA on a letter in which the RAF claimed responsibility for Buback's death.She was rearrested last summer, and charged earlier this year with involvement in Buback's murder as well as that of two of his companions who died when the car he was travelling in was sprayed with bullets in the south-western city of Karlsruhe in April 1977.The case has reawakened memories of the bloody RAF campaign that traumatised the country throughout the 1970s and 1980s. Prosecutors hope that the trial will finally uncover the truth about the Buback murder, most notably who pulled the trigger of the gun that killed him, and lay to rest decades of tangled rumour and elaborate conspiracy theories. The RAF disbanded in 1998.The trial, which is taking place in Stuttgart and is expected to last until December, is likely to be an emotional one due to the involvement of Buback's son, Michael, who has extensively researched the murder himself and is convinced that Becker was the \"petite woman\" witnesses saw on the back of the motorbike from which the fatal shots were fired.He also believes that Becker was given special protection by influential figures in the security authorities in return for her co-operation.Becker was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1977 for involvement in other RAF activities, but was pardoned and freed after 12 years.The judge will be called on to take into account intriguing new evidence that is likely to complicate the trial: the defence will present documents suggesting that Becker may not have been in Germany at the time of the murder, but rather in Baghdad.Becker, who after leaving prison trained as an alternative practitioner and now lives in a lakeside district in the most expensive quarter of Berlin and is dependent on state support, is expected to use her right to remain silent throughout the trial. She is understood to have made a pact with other former RAF members at a meeting in 2007 that none of them would reveal details of their alleged crimes.At the time of her arrest she said she had given up her fight, which she referred to as her \"former path\".\"I gave it up a long time ago, because it only caused a lot more suffering,\" she told investigators.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Baader-Meinhof trial opens in Germany"},{"date": "2010-09-06T09:05:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has downplayed the significance of the attack on the new identity cards, which store a scan of a user's fingerprints along with a six-digit PIN that can be used to digitally sign official forms, reports The Register.Hackers from the Chaos Computer Club were able to use home scanners that work with the cards to extract personal information including a fingerprint scan and the six-digit PIN from RFID the chip embedded in the cards. The hack was demonstrated on the Plusminus show on German TV channel ARD.But interior minister Thomas de Maizi\u00e8re, interviewed on the programme, said there was no reason to alter the technology or postpone a roll-out of the cards, which are due to be introduced nationally from November.Security experts from the the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) were similarly sanguine about the hack. Jens Bender, a personal identification expert at the BSI, said the card and integrated PIN number offered \"significant security improvement compared to today's standard process of user name and password\", according to English language German news site The Local.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "National security", "Hardware", "Identification"], "title": "Germany downplays biometric ID card hack"},{"date": "2010-09-05T23:05:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The uncomfortable truth about Germany's Muslim minority is that for years both ethnic Germans and the Turkish and Kurdish migrant community have preferred to live more or less separately. Germans have not been very welcoming, while Turks and Kurds have not been very interested in integration. This is, or was, hardly surprising. When people of quite different cultures are forced together by circumstance, rather than design, they are likely to rub along with one another in a very limited way, at least at the beginning.What is understandable in the short term, however, is likely to be unwise in the long run, so it is not entirely a bad thing that Thilo Sarrazin has pushed the issue to the top of the popular agenda with his controversial book. This descendant of Huguenot refugees, who also boasts two grandparents of non-German background, is not happy with today's migrants \u2013 who are, he says, welfare dependent, responsible for too much crime, unwilling to learn or speak German, and unwilling to marry Germans. They marry other Turks or Arabs instead and go on to have too many children. He does not wish to see, he adds, a Muslim-dominated Germany. He claims these arguments are supported by official statistics, and this is not entirely untrue. The trouble with his book, apart from its half-baked views on genetics and civilisational characteristics, is that it leaves out the historical context, deals with social problems as if they were deliberate and perverse choices by those of Muslim background, and blames immigrants for situations for which both sides share the blame.It has, nevertheless, gone right to the top of the bestseller list. A considerable number of Germans seem to feel that Mr Sarrazin has given voice to their own views. His sudden prominence is likely to be sustained rather than diminished by the fact that he is in the process of being ejected from his position as a member of the board of the Bundesbank. The German elite's rush to dissociate itself from him is understandable but has had unfortunate consequences. Bundesbank independence, even though it is meant to be fiscal rather than personal, looks somewhat compromised and Mr Sarrazin may achieve a sort of martyr status.The larger problem is that in Germany as elsewhere, mainstream politicians both play to anti-immigrant feeling and deplore it. Even while they subtly exploit the majority's fears, in the name of diversity they tread far too carefully in their dealings with minorities. This is a bad combination at a time when economic pressures are widening and a new selfishness and readiness to blame others is on the rise across Europe.", "tags": ["Germany", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Migrants in Germany: The lives of others  | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-07-24T16:55:59Z", "country": "germany", "content": "At least 15 people have been killed and dozens injured in a stampede after mass panic broke out at a music festival in Germany, police have said.The deaths occurred in a tunnel at the Love Parade in the city of Duisburg in the west of the country, where thousands had gathered for the annual techno music festival.Thousands of other revellers kept partying at the event near Duesseldorf, unaware of the deadly stampede that started when police tried to block thousands more people from entering the already-jammed grounds.A reporter for German newspaper Bild, Frank Schneider, who was at the festival, said: \"I alone have counted 11 dead, it looked shocking.\"He said the dead were covered with sheets.An 18-year-old festivalgoer, Marius, told Bild: \"There was no escape, people were standing over me like a wall. I was afraid I'd die.\"Another raver told the newspaper: \"I was lucky, found a small gap, but two women next to me died.\"Police confirmed that there were at least 15 deaths. Another 10 people had to be resuscitated, reports said.The German news agency DAPD reported that the stampede broke out after authorities tried to stop thousands of people from entering the area where the parade was being held.The victims were crushed and that emergency workers had trouble getting through to them, the news agency said.The Love Parade was once an institution in Berlin, but has been held in the industrial Ruhr region of western Germany since 2007.The original Berlin Love Parade grew from a 1989 peace demonstration into a huge outdoor celebration of club culture that drew about 1.5 million people at its peak in 1999. But it suffered from financial problems and tensions with city officials in later years, and eventually moved.", "tags": ["Germany", "Festivals", "Europe"], "title": "Festivalgoers killed at Love Parade in Germany"},{"date": "2010-07-16T17:53:29Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Europe's heatwave has led to melting autobahns, spoilt crops, widespread respiratory problems and record runs on mineral water, beer and ice cream.In Berlin, where temperatures reached 38C (100F), throngs at open-air swimming pools have led authorities to ban long swimming trunks, claiming they soak up too much water. In the city's canals and rivers, fish have been dying due to lack of oxygen.Hundreds of people have had to be rescued from dozens of overheated high-speed German trains in recent days after air conditioning systems broke down. It was discovered they were not designed to cope with temperatures higher than the mid-30s.Meteorologists have put the heatwave down to a zone of low pressure north of the UK and high pressure around the Mediterranean, which has pushed air from Africa across Europe.The conditions are expected to have a devastating effect on agriculture. Wheat crops in Germany were burnt in the heat and strawberries left rotting because they could not be picked fast enough. Farming organisations predicted crop losses they said could cause some food prices to rise by half.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Temperatures soar as heatwave hits Germany"},{"date": "2010-07-31T11:53:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A memorial service has been held in Germany for the 21 people crushed to death at the Love Parade techno music festival last weekend.Hundreds of mourners, including the chancellor, Angela Merkel, attended a service of commemoration at Salvator church. Thousands more watched live coverage of the service on screens at a football stadium and a dozen other churches in the western city of Duisburg. Several TV stations also covered the service, and flags across the country flew at half mast.The ceremony was led by Roman Catholic and Lutheran Protestant clerics representing Germany's two main denominations.\"The Love Parade was danced to death,\" Nikolaus Schneider, the head of the Rhineland Lutheran church assembly, said in his sermon. \"In the middle of a celebration of lust for life, death showed its ugly face to all of us.\"Franz-Josef Overbeck, the Catholic bishop of the neighbouring city of Essen, said: \"Life can be so oppositional: one moment there is a party, the next moment we are lying helplessly on the ground.\"We want to stir up our life in secure ways, but don't have it under control.\"After the sermons, a group of rescue workers who helped save people crushed in the crowded tunnel that was the sole entrance to the festival grounds in the city, lit 21 candles for the victims.Anger about the incident, in which 500 people were injured, has been building in Duisburg in recent days with more than 250 people demanding the resignation of the city's mayor, Adolf Sauerland, at a protest on Thursday.Many blame Sauerland and the city's authorities for failing to plan adequately for the event, whose turnout was initially estimated at 1.4 million people. Safety experts say the event was held on too small a site and criticised the organisers for providing only one entrance. The experts had warned that the 230,000 square metres of party grounds, on the site of a disused railway depot on the outskirts of the Ruhr valley city, were large enough to hold only up to 500,000 revellers.Since the event, however, estimates of how many people attended have been reduced. Spiegel, for instance, reported on 27 July: \"Police now believe around 400,000 people were present as opposed to the 1.4m figure originally provided.\" Revellers at the festival packed into a tunnel that was 100 metres long and 16 metres wide after police closed the grounds owing to overcrowding.It quickly became hot and airless, and scores of people inside collapsed. Others fell an estimated nine metres from a ladder as they were trying to find another route out of the grounds. At least 10 people had to be resuscitated. Medical staff on the scene said many people had died from asphyxiation and back injuries.The 21 people who died were aged 18 to 38, and included revellers from Spain, Australia, Italy, Bosnia, China and Holland as well as Germans.A preliminary report by police investigators, published on Wednesday, accused the festival's organisers of major security breaches that may have led to the crush. But the report was criticised for failing to establish the responsibility of the city's authorities.The Love Parade, first held in Berlin in 1989, has attained a cult status around the world and spawned scores of copycat events from Leeds to Rio de Janeiro. But the head organiser, Rainer Schaller, has announced the discontinuation of the event after the tragic incident.\u2022 This article was amended on 2 August 2010, to make clear that the original Duisberg crowd estimate of 1.4m was subsequently reduced.", "tags": ["Germany", "Festivals", "Music", "Angela Merkel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany mourns Love Parade dead"},{"date": "2010-09-30T09:11:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Three decades after the Red Army Faction terrorised Germany with a campaign of murders, hijackings and bomb attacks, the last major trial involving one its members opens today, when prosecutors will seek to end the mystery of one the group's most prominent killings.Verena Becker, one of the leading members of the RAF \u2013 also known as the Baader-Meinhof gang \u2013 is due to answer charges that she was involved in the murder of the country's leading public prosecutor, Siegfried Buback, 33 years ago.Becker, 58, had already spent years in prison for other RAF-related crimes including murder, but the case against her was reopened in 2008 after forensic evidence not available to investigators in the late 1970s revealed traces of her DNA on a letter in which the RAF claimed responsibility for Buback's death.She was rearrested last summer, and charged earlier this year with involvement in Buback's murder as well as that of two of his companions who died when the car he was travelling in was sprayed with bullets in the south-western city of Karlsruhe in April 1977.The case has reawakened memories of the bloody RAF campaign that traumatised the country throughout the 1970s and 1980s. Prosecutors hope that the trial will finally uncover the truth about the Buback murder, most notably who pulled the trigger of the gun that killed him, and lay to rest decades of tangled rumour and elaborate conspiracy theories. The RAF disbanded in 1998.The trial, which is taking place in Stuttgart and is expected to last until December, is likely to be an emotional one due to the involvement of Buback's son, Michael, who has extensively researched the murder himself and is convinced that Becker was the \"petite woman\" witnesses saw on the back of the motorbike from which the fatal shots were fired.He also believes that Becker was given special protection by influential figures in the security authorities in return for her co-operation.Becker was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1977 for involvement in other RAF activities, but was pardoned and freed after 12 years.The judge will be called on to take into account intriguing new evidence that is likely to complicate the trial: the defence will present documents suggesting that Becker may not have been in Germany at the time of the murder, but rather in Baghdad.Becker, who after leaving prison trained as an alternative practitioner and now lives in a lakeside district in the most expensive quarter of Berlin and is dependent on state support, is expected to use her right to remain silent throughout the trial. She is understood to have made a pact with other former RAF members at a meeting in 2007 that none of them would reveal details of their alleged crimes.At the time of her arrest she said she had given up her fight, which she referred to as her \"former path\".\"I gave it up a long time ago, because it only caused a lot more suffering,\" she told investigators.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Baader-Meinhof trial opens in Germany"},{"date": "2010-09-06T09:05:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has downplayed the significance of the attack on the new identity cards, which store a scan of a user's fingerprints along with a six-digit PIN that can be used to digitally sign official forms, reports The Register.Hackers from the Chaos Computer Club were able to use home scanners that work with the cards to extract personal information including a fingerprint scan and the six-digit PIN from RFID the chip embedded in the cards. The hack was demonstrated on the Plusminus show on German TV channel ARD.But interior minister Thomas de Maizi\u00e8re, interviewed on the programme, said there was no reason to alter the technology or postpone a roll-out of the cards, which are due to be introduced nationally from November.Security experts from the the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) were similarly sanguine about the hack. Jens Bender, a personal identification expert at the BSI, said the card and integrated PIN number offered \"significant security improvement compared to today's standard process of user name and password\", according to English language German news site The Local.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "National security", "Hardware", "Identification"], "title": "Germany downplays biometric ID card hack"},{"date": "2010-09-05T23:05:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The uncomfortable truth about Germany's Muslim minority is that for years both ethnic Germans and the Turkish and Kurdish migrant community have preferred to live more or less separately. Germans have not been very welcoming, while Turks and Kurds have not been very interested in integration. This is, or was, hardly surprising. When people of quite different cultures are forced together by circumstance, rather than design, they are likely to rub along with one another in a very limited way, at least at the beginning.What is understandable in the short term, however, is likely to be unwise in the long run, so it is not entirely a bad thing that Thilo Sarrazin has pushed the issue to the top of the popular agenda with his controversial book. This descendant of Huguenot refugees, who also boasts two grandparents of non-German background, is not happy with today's migrants \u2013 who are, he says, welfare dependent, responsible for too much crime, unwilling to learn or speak German, and unwilling to marry Germans. They marry other Turks or Arabs instead and go on to have too many children. He does not wish to see, he adds, a Muslim-dominated Germany. He claims these arguments are supported by official statistics, and this is not entirely untrue. The trouble with his book, apart from its half-baked views on genetics and civilisational characteristics, is that it leaves out the historical context, deals with social problems as if they were deliberate and perverse choices by those of Muslim background, and blames immigrants for situations for which both sides share the blame.It has, nevertheless, gone right to the top of the bestseller list. A considerable number of Germans seem to feel that Mr Sarrazin has given voice to their own views. His sudden prominence is likely to be sustained rather than diminished by the fact that he is in the process of being ejected from his position as a member of the board of the Bundesbank. The German elite's rush to dissociate itself from him is understandable but has had unfortunate consequences. Bundesbank independence, even though it is meant to be fiscal rather than personal, looks somewhat compromised and Mr Sarrazin may achieve a sort of martyr status.The larger problem is that in Germany as elsewhere, mainstream politicians both play to anti-immigrant feeling and deplore it. Even while they subtly exploit the majority's fears, in the name of diversity they tread far too carefully in their dealings with minorities. This is a bad combination at a time when economic pressures are widening and a new selfishness and readiness to blame others is on the rise across Europe.", "tags": ["Germany", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Migrants in Germany: The lives of others  | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-07-24T16:55:59Z", "country": "germany", "content": "At least 15 people have been killed and dozens injured in a stampede after mass panic broke out at a music festival in Germany, police have said.The deaths occurred in a tunnel at the Love Parade in the city of Duisburg in the west of the country, where thousands had gathered for the annual techno music festival.Thousands of other revellers kept partying at the event near Duesseldorf, unaware of the deadly stampede that started when police tried to block thousands more people from entering the already-jammed grounds.A reporter for German newspaper Bild, Frank Schneider, who was at the festival, said: \"I alone have counted 11 dead, it looked shocking.\"He said the dead were covered with sheets.An 18-year-old festivalgoer, Marius, told Bild: \"There was no escape, people were standing over me like a wall. I was afraid I'd die.\"Another raver told the newspaper: \"I was lucky, found a small gap, but two women next to me died.\"Police confirmed that there were at least 15 deaths. Another 10 people had to be resuscitated, reports said.The German news agency DAPD reported that the stampede broke out after authorities tried to stop thousands of people from entering the area where the parade was being held.The victims were crushed and that emergency workers had trouble getting through to them, the news agency said.The Love Parade was once an institution in Berlin, but has been held in the industrial Ruhr region of western Germany since 2007.The original Berlin Love Parade grew from a 1989 peace demonstration into a huge outdoor celebration of club culture that drew about 1.5 million people at its peak in 1999. But it suffered from financial problems and tensions with city officials in later years, and eventually moved.", "tags": ["Germany", "Festivals", "Europe"], "title": "Festivalgoers killed at Love Parade in Germany"},{"date": "2010-07-16T17:53:29Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Europe's heatwave has led to melting autobahns, spoilt crops, widespread respiratory problems and record runs on mineral water, beer and ice cream.In Berlin, where temperatures reached 38C (100F), throngs at open-air swimming pools have led authorities to ban long swimming trunks, claiming they soak up too much water. In the city's canals and rivers, fish have been dying due to lack of oxygen.Hundreds of people have had to be rescued from dozens of overheated high-speed German trains in recent days after air conditioning systems broke down. It was discovered they were not designed to cope with temperatures higher than the mid-30s.Meteorologists have put the heatwave down to a zone of low pressure north of the UK and high pressure around the Mediterranean, which has pushed air from Africa across Europe.The conditions are expected to have a devastating effect on agriculture. Wheat crops in Germany were burnt in the heat and strawberries left rotting because they could not be picked fast enough. Farming organisations predicted crop losses they said could cause some food prices to rise by half.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Temperatures soar as heatwave hits Germany"},{"date": "2010-09-28T23:29:58Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A plot to launch \"commando-style\" attacks on Britain, France, and Germany has been intercepted and foiled by drone attacks on militants based in Pakistan, security and intelligence sources said last night.The plan for suicidal onslaughts similar to the 2008 atrocity in Mumbai \u2013 where 166 people were killed in a series of gun and grenade assaults \u2013 was disrupted after a combined operation involving US, UK, French and German intelligence agencies, officials said.British security and intelligence sources, who have been concerned for some time about the possibility of a Mumbai-style attack in Europe, confirmed that they believed a plot was being hatched from Pakistan.The increased rate of coordinated US drone raids along the border with Afghanistan is believed to be a response to intelligence gathered about the plot. Security sources insisted that attacks in Europe were not imminent.The Eiffel Tower in Paris, however, has been evacuated twice because of a bomb scare in the past two weeks, a precaution that may have been prompted by the intelligence.No further evidence of such a plot was provided. Jonathan Evans, the head of MI5, earlier this month spoke publicly about the continuing threat of terror attacks in the UK. In his speech, he suggested that around 50% of the plots identified had links to Pakistan \u2013 a decline on previous estimates that suggested the figure was nearer 75%.The terror group behind the 2008 Mumbai attacks was the outlawed, Pakistani-based Lashkar-e-Taiba.In the aftermath of the attack western intelligence agencies gained access to computers seized from the Islamist group which listed other potential targets outside the Indian subcontinent for commando-style terror strikes.Nine of the gunmen were killed \u2013 but a lone survivor gave Indian investigators a full confession that the assault was planned in Pakistan by Lashkar, a militant group that originally began an armed campaign against the Indian army in Kashmir.US military briefings suggested the latest missile attacks in Pakistan had been coordinated by the CIA and were an unusual example of using drones to pre-empt possible terror plots.\"There are some pretty notable threat streams,\" one US military official told the Wall Street Journal, adding that the significance of the threats is still being assessed by counterterrorism experts.The CIA is believed to have launched at least 20 drone strikes this month in Pakistan's Federally Administered Tribal Areas, the region bordering Afghanistan That is the highest monthly total in the past six years, according tofigures from the New America Foundation think tank which monitors drone operations.Four people were reported killed in the latest raid on Monday by US Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) that are operated remotely out of air force bases in the US. A senior al-Qaida leader was among one of those killed in drone raids, Pakistani and US officials said yesterday.There has also been speculation that some of the attacks may be targeted against the Islamist Haqqani network, a group that has not previously operated outside the region.The group controls the area in north-western Pakistan where intelligence officials suspect Osama bin Laden may be hiding.American officials declined to comment on specific plots in Europe or elsewhere but acknowledged that targeted drone strikes in Pakistan were meant to disrupt militant networks planning attacks.\"It shouldn't surprise anyone that links between plots and those who are orchestrating them lead to decisive American action,\" a US official told Reuters.\"The terrorists who are involved are, as everyone should expect, going to be targets. That's the whole point of all of this.\"", "tags": ["Mumbai terror attacks", "UK security and counter-terrorism", "France", "Pakistan", "Germany", "US news", "World news", "UK news", "Travel", "Drones (military)", "Europe"], "title": "'Mumbai-style' terror attack on UK, France and Germany foiled"},{"date": "2010-07-31T11:53:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A memorial service has been held in Germany for the 21 people crushed to death at the Love Parade techno music festival last weekend.Hundreds of mourners, including the chancellor, Angela Merkel, attended a service of commemoration at Salvator church. Thousands more watched live coverage of the service on screens at a football stadium and a dozen other churches in the western city of Duisburg. Several TV stations also covered the service, and flags across the country flew at half mast.The ceremony was led by Roman Catholic and Lutheran Protestant clerics representing Germany's two main denominations.\"The Love Parade was danced to death,\" Nikolaus Schneider, the head of the Rhineland Lutheran church assembly, said in his sermon. \"In the middle of a celebration of lust for life, death showed its ugly face to all of us.\"Franz-Josef Overbeck, the Catholic bishop of the neighbouring city of Essen, said: \"Life can be so oppositional: one moment there is a party, the next moment we are lying helplessly on the ground.\"We want to stir up our life in secure ways, but don't have it under control.\"After the sermons, a group of rescue workers who helped save people crushed in the crowded tunnel that was the sole entrance to the festival grounds in the city, lit 21 candles for the victims.Anger about the incident, in which 500 people were injured, has been building in Duisburg in recent days with more than 250 people demanding the resignation of the city's mayor, Adolf Sauerland, at a protest on Thursday.Many blame Sauerland and the city's authorities for failing to plan adequately for the event, whose turnout was initially estimated at 1.4 million people. Safety experts say the event was held on too small a site and criticised the organisers for providing only one entrance. The experts had warned that the 230,000 square metres of party grounds, on the site of a disused railway depot on the outskirts of the Ruhr valley city, were large enough to hold only up to 500,000 revellers.Since the event, however, estimates of how many people attended have been reduced. Spiegel, for instance, reported on 27 July: \"Police now believe around 400,000 people were present as opposed to the 1.4m figure originally provided.\" Revellers at the festival packed into a tunnel that was 100 metres long and 16 metres wide after police closed the grounds owing to overcrowding.It quickly became hot and airless, and scores of people inside collapsed. Others fell an estimated nine metres from a ladder as they were trying to find another route out of the grounds. At least 10 people had to be resuscitated. Medical staff on the scene said many people had died from asphyxiation and back injuries.The 21 people who died were aged 18 to 38, and included revellers from Spain, Australia, Italy, Bosnia, China and Holland as well as Germans.A preliminary report by police investigators, published on Wednesday, accused the festival's organisers of major security breaches that may have led to the crush. But the report was criticised for failing to establish the responsibility of the city's authorities.The Love Parade, first held in Berlin in 1989, has attained a cult status around the world and spawned scores of copycat events from Leeds to Rio de Janeiro. But the head organiser, Rainer Schaller, has announced the discontinuation of the event after the tragic incident.\u2022 This article was amended on 2 August 2010, to make clear that the original Duisberg crowd estimate of 1.4m was subsequently reduced.", "tags": ["Germany", "Festivals", "Music", "Angela Merkel", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany mourns Love Parade dead"},{"date": "2010-09-30T09:11:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Three decades after the Red Army Faction terrorised Germany with a campaign of murders, hijackings and bomb attacks, the last major trial involving one its members opens today, when prosecutors will seek to end the mystery of one the group's most prominent killings.Verena Becker, one of the leading members of the RAF \u2013 also known as the Baader-Meinhof gang \u2013 is due to answer charges that she was involved in the murder of the country's leading public prosecutor, Siegfried Buback, 33 years ago.Becker, 58, had already spent years in prison for other RAF-related crimes including murder, but the case against her was reopened in 2008 after forensic evidence not available to investigators in the late 1970s revealed traces of her DNA on a letter in which the RAF claimed responsibility for Buback's death.She was rearrested last summer, and charged earlier this year with involvement in Buback's murder as well as that of two of his companions who died when the car he was travelling in was sprayed with bullets in the south-western city of Karlsruhe in April 1977.The case has reawakened memories of the bloody RAF campaign that traumatised the country throughout the 1970s and 1980s. Prosecutors hope that the trial will finally uncover the truth about the Buback murder, most notably who pulled the trigger of the gun that killed him, and lay to rest decades of tangled rumour and elaborate conspiracy theories. The RAF disbanded in 1998.The trial, which is taking place in Stuttgart and is expected to last until December, is likely to be an emotional one due to the involvement of Buback's son, Michael, who has extensively researched the murder himself and is convinced that Becker was the \"petite woman\" witnesses saw on the back of the motorbike from which the fatal shots were fired.He also believes that Becker was given special protection by influential figures in the security authorities in return for her co-operation.Becker was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1977 for involvement in other RAF activities, but was pardoned and freed after 12 years.The judge will be called on to take into account intriguing new evidence that is likely to complicate the trial: the defence will present documents suggesting that Becker may not have been in Germany at the time of the murder, but rather in Baghdad.Becker, who after leaving prison trained as an alternative practitioner and now lives in a lakeside district in the most expensive quarter of Berlin and is dependent on state support, is expected to use her right to remain silent throughout the trial. She is understood to have made a pact with other former RAF members at a meeting in 2007 that none of them would reveal details of their alleged crimes.At the time of her arrest she said she had given up her fight, which she referred to as her \"former path\".\"I gave it up a long time ago, because it only caused a lot more suffering,\" she told investigators.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Baader-Meinhof trial opens in Germany"},{"date": "2010-09-06T09:05:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has downplayed the significance of the attack on the new identity cards, which store a scan of a user's fingerprints along with a six-digit PIN that can be used to digitally sign official forms, reports The Register.Hackers from the Chaos Computer Club were able to use home scanners that work with the cards to extract personal information including a fingerprint scan and the six-digit PIN from RFID the chip embedded in the cards. The hack was demonstrated on the Plusminus show on German TV channel ARD.But interior minister Thomas de Maizi\u00e8re, interviewed on the programme, said there was no reason to alter the technology or postpone a roll-out of the cards, which are due to be introduced nationally from November.Security experts from the the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) were similarly sanguine about the hack. Jens Bender, a personal identification expert at the BSI, said the card and integrated PIN number offered \"significant security improvement compared to today's standard process of user name and password\", according to English language German news site The Local.", "tags": ["Guardian Government Computing", "National security", "Hardware", "Identification"], "title": "Germany downplays biometric ID card hack"},{"date": "2010-09-05T23:05:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The uncomfortable truth about Germany's Muslim minority is that for years both ethnic Germans and the Turkish and Kurdish migrant community have preferred to live more or less separately. Germans have not been very welcoming, while Turks and Kurds have not been very interested in integration. This is, or was, hardly surprising. When people of quite different cultures are forced together by circumstance, rather than design, they are likely to rub along with one another in a very limited way, at least at the beginning.What is understandable in the short term, however, is likely to be unwise in the long run, so it is not entirely a bad thing that Thilo Sarrazin has pushed the issue to the top of the popular agenda with his controversial book. This descendant of Huguenot refugees, who also boasts two grandparents of non-German background, is not happy with today's migrants \u2013 who are, he says, welfare dependent, responsible for too much crime, unwilling to learn or speak German, and unwilling to marry Germans. They marry other Turks or Arabs instead and go on to have too many children. He does not wish to see, he adds, a Muslim-dominated Germany. He claims these arguments are supported by official statistics, and this is not entirely untrue. The trouble with his book, apart from its half-baked views on genetics and civilisational characteristics, is that it leaves out the historical context, deals with social problems as if they were deliberate and perverse choices by those of Muslim background, and blames immigrants for situations for which both sides share the blame.It has, nevertheless, gone right to the top of the bestseller list. A considerable number of Germans seem to feel that Mr Sarrazin has given voice to their own views. His sudden prominence is likely to be sustained rather than diminished by the fact that he is in the process of being ejected from his position as a member of the board of the Bundesbank. The German elite's rush to dissociate itself from him is understandable but has had unfortunate consequences. Bundesbank independence, even though it is meant to be fiscal rather than personal, looks somewhat compromised and Mr Sarrazin may achieve a sort of martyr status.The larger problem is that in Germany as elsewhere, mainstream politicians both play to anti-immigrant feeling and deplore it. Even while they subtly exploit the majority's fears, in the name of diversity they tread far too carefully in their dealings with minorities. This is a bad combination at a time when economic pressures are widening and a new selfishness and readiness to blame others is on the rise across Europe.", "tags": ["Germany", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Migrants in Germany: The lives of others  | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-07-24T16:55:59Z", "country": "germany", "content": "At least 15 people have been killed and dozens injured in a stampede after mass panic broke out at a music festival in Germany, police have said.The deaths occurred in a tunnel at the Love Parade in the city of Duisburg in the west of the country, where thousands had gathered for the annual techno music festival.Thousands of other revellers kept partying at the event near Duesseldorf, unaware of the deadly stampede that started when police tried to block thousands more people from entering the already-jammed grounds.A reporter for German newspaper Bild, Frank Schneider, who was at the festival, said: \"I alone have counted 11 dead, it looked shocking.\"He said the dead were covered with sheets.An 18-year-old festivalgoer, Marius, told Bild: \"There was no escape, people were standing over me like a wall. I was afraid I'd die.\"Another raver told the newspaper: \"I was lucky, found a small gap, but two women next to me died.\"Police confirmed that there were at least 15 deaths. Another 10 people had to be resuscitated, reports said.The German news agency DAPD reported that the stampede broke out after authorities tried to stop thousands of people from entering the area where the parade was being held.The victims were crushed and that emergency workers had trouble getting through to them, the news agency said.The Love Parade was once an institution in Berlin, but has been held in the industrial Ruhr region of western Germany since 2007.The original Berlin Love Parade grew from a 1989 peace demonstration into a huge outdoor celebration of club culture that drew about 1.5 million people at its peak in 1999. But it suffered from financial problems and tensions with city officials in later years, and eventually moved.", "tags": ["Germany", "Festivals", "Europe"], "title": "Festivalgoers killed at Love Parade in Germany"},{"date": "2010-07-16T17:53:29Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Europe's heatwave has led to melting autobahns, spoilt crops, widespread respiratory problems and record runs on mineral water, beer and ice cream.In Berlin, where temperatures reached 38C (100F), throngs at open-air swimming pools have led authorities to ban long swimming trunks, claiming they soak up too much water. In the city's canals and rivers, fish have been dying due to lack of oxygen.Hundreds of people have had to be rescued from dozens of overheated high-speed German trains in recent days after air conditioning systems broke down. It was discovered they were not designed to cope with temperatures higher than the mid-30s.Meteorologists have put the heatwave down to a zone of low pressure north of the UK and high pressure around the Mediterranean, which has pushed air from Africa across Europe.The conditions are expected to have a devastating effect on agriculture. Wheat crops in Germany were burnt in the heat and strawberries left rotting because they could not be picked fast enough. Farming organisations predicted crop losses they said could cause some food prices to rise by half.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Temperatures soar as heatwave hits Germany"},{"date": "2010-09-28T23:29:58Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A plot to launch \"commando-style\" attacks on Britain, France, and Germany has been intercepted and foiled by drone attacks on militants based in Pakistan, security and intelligence sources said last night.The plan for suicidal onslaughts similar to the 2008 atrocity in Mumbai \u2013 where 166 people were killed in a series of gun and grenade assaults \u2013 was disrupted after a combined operation involving US, UK, French and German intelligence agencies, officials said.British security and intelligence sources, who have been concerned for some time about the possibility of a Mumbai-style attack in Europe, confirmed that they believed a plot was being hatched from Pakistan.The increased rate of coordinated US drone raids along the border with Afghanistan is believed to be a response to intelligence gathered about the plot. Security sources insisted that attacks in Europe were not imminent.The Eiffel Tower in Paris, however, has been evacuated twice because of a bomb scare in the past two weeks, a precaution that may have been prompted by the intelligence.No further evidence of such a plot was provided. Jonathan Evans, the head of MI5, earlier this month spoke publicly about the continuing threat of terror attacks in the UK. In his speech, he suggested that around 50% of the plots identified had links to Pakistan \u2013 a decline on previous estimates that suggested the figure was nearer 75%.The terror group behind the 2008 Mumbai attacks was the outlawed, Pakistani-based Lashkar-e-Taiba.In the aftermath of the attack western intelligence agencies gained access to computers seized from the Islamist group which listed other potential targets outside the Indian subcontinent for commando-style terror strikes.Nine of the gunmen were killed \u2013 but a lone survivor gave Indian investigators a full confession that the assault was planned in Pakistan by Lashkar, a militant group that originally began an armed campaign against the Indian army in Kashmir.US military briefings suggested the latest missile attacks in Pakistan had been coordinated by the CIA and were an unusual example of using drones to pre-empt possible terror plots.\"There are some pretty notable threat streams,\" one US military official told the Wall Street Journal, adding that the significance of the threats is still being assessed by counterterrorism experts.The CIA is believed to have launched at least 20 drone strikes this month in Pakistan's Federally Administered Tribal Areas, the region bordering Afghanistan That is the highest monthly total in the past six years, according tofigures from the New America Foundation think tank which monitors drone operations.Four people were reported killed in the latest raid on Monday by US Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) that are operated remotely out of air force bases in the US. A senior al-Qaida leader was among one of those killed in drone raids, Pakistani and US officials said yesterday.There has also been speculation that some of the attacks may be targeted against the Islamist Haqqani network, a group that has not previously operated outside the region.The group controls the area in north-western Pakistan where intelligence officials suspect Osama bin Laden may be hiding.American officials declined to comment on specific plots in Europe or elsewhere but acknowledged that targeted drone strikes in Pakistan were meant to disrupt militant networks planning attacks.\"It shouldn't surprise anyone that links between plots and those who are orchestrating them lead to decisive American action,\" a US official told Reuters.\"The terrorists who are involved are, as everyone should expect, going to be targets. That's the whole point of all of this.\"", "tags": ["Mumbai terror attacks", "UK security and counter-terrorism", "France", "Pakistan", "Germany", "US news", "World news", "UK news", "Travel", "Drones (military)", "Europe"], "title": "'Mumbai-style' terror attack on UK, France and Germany foiled"},{"date": "2010-09-06T13:59:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government today agreed to extend the working lives of its nuclear reactors by an average of 12 years, in a controversial move that will shape the energy strategy of Europe's largest nation for decades to come.Having put the seal on a deal that was hammered out after lengthy talks between politicians and power companies, the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, hailed it as a \"revolution in energy provision\". She said it would help to ensure Germany's place at the forefront of \"the most environmentally and worldwide most efficient\" energy policy.Under the agreement, the four power companies E.ON, RWE, EnBW and Vattenfall have agreed to pay the German government \u20ac30bn (\u00a325bn) to allow the operating lives of its 17 nuclear plants to be extended. The companies will also pay \u20ac2.3bn in nuclear-fuel rods tax over the next six years, as well as an annual \u20ac300m for the next two years and \u20ac200m between 2013 and 2016 into a special renewable energy investment fund.The decision marks a turnaround on the decision reached almost a decade ago under the Social Democratic (SPD) and Green party coalition of Gerhard Schr\u00f6der to phase out nuclear power early in the next decade.Opposition politicians and environmental groups referred to today variously as \"heartbreaking\" and \"a black day\".Sigmar Gabriel, leader of the SPD, said it was a \"black day for energy policy\", and accused the government of selling out to the energy lobby. \"The security of the Germans has been sold to four large companies,\" he said. \"Never before has the impression been given so shamefacedly that politics can be bought.\"The decision could prove the government's hardest test yet, at a time when its popularity ratings are suffering. According to recent polls, most Germans are in favour of phasing out nuclear power as soon as possible. Experts have predicted that the issue could put new wind back in the sails of the Green party, which has pledged to reverse the decision if it gets into government.Merkel now faces the tough challenge of trying to ensure that any draft law bypasses the Bundesrat, or upper house of parliament, where she lost her majority earlier this year.Greenpeace energy expert Tobias M\u00fcnchmeyer said extending the lives of the plants amounted to little more than \"a pure monetary gift from the government\", which \"damages Germany while being of advantage to the companies\". He said the decision would also lead to the production of \"thousands of tonnes\" of additional atomic waste, and with it, the problem of where and how to store it.The conservative government in neighbouring Austria condemned the decision, referring to it as a \"disappointment\" and a \"retrograde step\" for energy policy. \"Germany has simply made it easier for itself to keep its CO2 emissions down,\" said Austrian environment minister Nikolaus Berlakovich, who added that the future lay in renewable energies. \"What's clear is that atomic energy is no answer to climate change and no sustainable way in which to reduce CO2 emissions,\" he said.A protest against the decision has been scheduled for 18 September in Berlin.But Merkel, who spent a week in August touring nuclear power plants and alternative energy producers, said it was precisely to ensure the embracing of renewable energy that she had agreed to keep nuclear power plants running for longer. She said nuclear power would be a \"bridge\" that would allow more time for reliable and affordable technologies to be developed. Merkel pointed to the renewable energy investment fund, whereby nuclear utilities will effectively pay part of their gains from the extension to develop renewable energy.The decision was reached following a report that said Germany would not be able to reach to its goal of reducing CO2 emissions by 80% in 2050, compared to 1990 levels, if it abandoned nuclear power too soon.", "tags": ["Nuclear power", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "World news", "Energy", "Environment", "Europe"], "title": "Germany agrees to extend life of nuclear power stations"},{"date": "2010-11-28T00:06:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The last time I was in Germany was in 2004, to film a documentary series called Road to Berlin, which detailed the last 11 months of the war in Europe. Everywhere we went in Germany was to do with the war or the Nazis: Nordhausen, the underground V-weapons factory; the site of Hitler's bunker in Berlin; Bergen-Belsen. Eventually, fascinating as this stuff was, it was becoming obvious to me that there had to be so much more to the place than these British tropes and the events of what was, after all, a 15-year period in the country's history.It is often stated that Germany was the most cultured country in the world (so how on earth did Nazism happen?), but I think it's fair to say we aren't that sure of what that culture was. And anyway, once you begin to look into it, it becomes clear that there wasn't any such place until pretty recently. Strictly speaking, Germany didn't exist until unification in 1871 (and there have been several Gemanies since).So earlier this year we went to Germany to look beyond the lazy and comfortable, almost Pavlovian stereotypes we have of this country, and discovered one thing more than anything else. I say \"we\" because every time I have been to Germany (save one trip 18 years ago to go to K\u00f6ln Comedy Festival) I've been with a film crew and, as was the case this time, the crew is entirely tangled up with my impression of the place; my perception of Germany has been through the prism of the programme we're making.First, the place is enormous. While we were not supposed to be thinking about the Nazis, the sheer size of the country makes you scratch your head at the idea of Lebensraum (Hitler's expansionist policy into countries in the east). We spent many long hours on the autobahn, complete with terrifyingly fast drivers, and there were times when it seemed we'd never get to Berlin.What gradually revealed itself as we travelled around investigating German culture was the imaginative grip that the idea of Germany exerted over its writers, musicians and architects. But also how much the place looked outwards for inspiration.We started our journey in Heiligendamm, a Baltic beach and spa resort almost as far north as you can go in Germany. While this may well be the perfect holiday resort in the summer, we were there in February. There were ice floes out to sea, the wind was whipping in off wherever it is that's very cold that the wind whips in off, and it seemed like we were off to an entirely hare-brained start. But Heiligendamm is a Regency-era resort, the buildings reminiscent of Brighton, and it was the seaside getaway for European princes and playboys \u2013 the Tsar had his own place there. The elegance of its white buildings echoes northern Germany's sophisticated and wealthy past.Also in Heiligendamm we found the first hint of a stereotype coming true: rather than watching their deck chairs get blown away into the Baltic, the locals stayed put by the beach thanks to the local invention of the strandkorb \u2013 literally beach basket. These huge two-person wicker monsters are half sedan chair, half sofa \u2013 a sort of 4x4 deck chair. They smack of German engineering and efficiency (as we, the British, see them); but as the wind whipped in from wherever, they just seemed sensible. And again and again, as we ventured south, the stereotypes fell away, and as usual, really said more about us than them.Hamburg, as we all know, gave us the Beatles. But it was also where Brahms grew up, playing with his father in pubs and bars, some of which could be described as dodgy. Just don't tell the Brahms scholar that. Germany is well suited to a cultural whistlestop tour because everywhere you go there are arts centres, lovingly restored birthplaces, archives, bilingual (thank God) scholars. In Liverpool they knocked down the original Cavern Club (just saying).Brahms \u2013 when he wasn't oozing melancholy in the direction of Clara Schumann \u2013 was deeply concerned with the idea of what German music might be, and how to make it purely German. In a cultural setting such as this the idea seems almost benign, and he spent a large part of his career embroiled in a row with Wagner about this very issue (I wasn't much of a fan of Wagner's music, and the more you get to know about him the less you like him; a couple of stirring tunes aside, he comes across as a truly ghastly man). Whether Brahms achieved his aim of creating purely German music I don't know \u2013 it seems to me to be suffused in melancholy more than anything else, and looking at his life of romantic yearning maybe that's more him than German-ness.Berlin seems as unlike Hamburg as London is unlike Paris. When trying to re-establish Berlin after the Thirty Years' War (and so much of what has happened in Berlin happens in the aftermath of war) the Prussian Elector Frederick William embraced religious tolerance as a way to get people to come and live there. French Huguenots fleeing persecution in France came to the city. Further east than you think, Berlin very much has the sense of being somewhere in the middle of Europe and caught in the political currents that have flowed through it. The politics feel raw: there are the distinctly different buildings in the eastern part of the city, not to mention the outline of the Wall, the Holocaust memorial, the site of Hitler's bunker (which is in what can be best described as a dog-shit car park). It's almost impossible not to be bludgeoned by history in Berlin.Leaving the north the tone changes again \u2013 on our way to Munich we visited Dresden, which, rather than being the smoking ruin of my foolish imagination, has been restored to its historic glory. But it was Munich \u2013 nearer Italy than Hamburg \u2013 where another Germany revealed itself: Catholic, alpine, a place where the tragic story of \"Mad\" King Ludwig\u00a0II marks Bavaria's end and the beginning of the era of unification and the Kaiser.Ludwig became king in 1864 when he was 18, but also at the point when the crown's power had pretty much dwindled away. So he set about the business of being kingly, styling himself on Louis XIV, building palaces, riding around in gaudy golden sleighs with electric lights \u2013 in other words, being generally fabulous. He borrowed vast sums, sponsored Wagner (who saw in the young king a great fleecing opportunity) and gave money to people on the streets. His palaces at Linderhof and Neuschwanstein are spectacular (if a little over the top), built with all the latest mod cons, such as central heating. However, Ludwig's romantic pursuit of being the perfect German prince didn't sit well in the age of the Iron Chancellor, and he came unstuck \u2013 deposed, declared mad and dying in mysterious circumstances. Ludwig's end coincides with an end to romantic frivolity in German culture and the assimilation of the search for national identity into mainstream politics. And we all know where that ended up.The three weeks we spent in Germany were fascinating. It staggers me, for a country with a German royal family, how uninterested we are in the place. Over 21 days, and two films, we managed not to mention the war (well, I mentioned it once but I think I got away with it). It's a huge, diverse, energetic place, and one that I really, really must visit without a film crew and have time to take in.Al Murray's German Adventure will be shown on 1 December at 9pm on BBC 4", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Travel", "Cultural trips", "Television", "Culture", "Berlin holidays", "Hamburg holidays", "Munich holidays", "Dresden holidays", "Second world war", "Adolf Hitler", "Music", "Richard Wagner", "Holocaust", "Al Murray"], "title": "Travel in Germany: Don't mention the war\u2026"},{"date": "2010-11-28T00:06:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The last time I was in Germany was in 2004, to film a documentary series called Road to Berlin, which detailed the last 11 months of the war in Europe. Everywhere we went in Germany was to do with the war or the Nazis: Nordhausen, the underground V-weapons factory; the site of Hitler's bunker in Berlin; Bergen-Belsen. Eventually, fascinating as this stuff was, it was becoming obvious to me that there had to be so much more to the place than these British tropes and the events of what was, after all, a 15-year period in the country's history.It is often stated that Germany was the most cultured country in the world (so how on earth did Nazism happen?), but I think it's fair to say we aren't that sure of what that culture was. And anyway, once you begin to look into it, it becomes clear that there wasn't any such place until pretty recently. Strictly speaking, Germany didn't exist until unification in 1871 (and there have been several Gemanies since).So earlier this year we went to Germany to look beyond the lazy and comfortable, almost Pavlovian stereotypes we have of this country, and discovered one thing more than anything else. I say \"we\" because every time I have been to Germany (save one trip 18 years ago to go to K\u00f6ln Comedy Festival) I've been with a film crew and, as was the case this time, the crew is entirely tangled up with my impression of the place; my perception of Germany has been through the prism of the programme we're making.First, the place is enormous. While we were not supposed to be thinking about the Nazis, the sheer size of the country makes you scratch your head at the idea of Lebensraum (Hitler's expansionist policy into countries in the east). We spent many long hours on the autobahn, complete with terrifyingly fast drivers, and there were times when it seemed we'd never get to Berlin.What gradually revealed itself as we travelled around investigating German culture was the imaginative grip that the idea of Germany exerted over its writers, musicians and architects. But also how much the place looked outwards for inspiration.We started our journey in Heiligendamm, a Baltic beach and spa resort almost as far north as you can go in Germany. While this may well be the perfect holiday resort in the summer, we were there in February. There were ice floes out to sea, the wind was whipping in off wherever it is that's very cold that the wind whips in off, and it seemed like we were off to an entirely hare-brained start. But Heiligendamm is a Regency-era resort, the buildings reminiscent of Brighton, and it was the seaside getaway for European princes and playboys \u2013 the Tsar had his own place there. The elegance of its white buildings echoes northern Germany's sophisticated and wealthy past.Also in Heiligendamm we found the first hint of a stereotype coming true: rather than watching their deck chairs get blown away into the Baltic, the locals stayed put by the beach thanks to the local invention of the strandkorb \u2013 literally beach basket. These huge two-person wicker monsters are half sedan chair, half sofa \u2013 a sort of 4x4 deck chair. They smack of German engineering and efficiency (as we, the British, see them); but as the wind whipped in from wherever, they just seemed sensible. And again and again, as we ventured south, the stereotypes fell away, and as usual, really said more about us than them.Hamburg, as we all know, gave us the Beatles. But it was also where Brahms grew up, playing with his father in pubs and bars, some of which could be described as dodgy. Just don't tell the Brahms scholar that. Germany is well suited to a cultural whistlestop tour because everywhere you go there are arts centres, lovingly restored birthplaces, archives, bilingual (thank God) scholars. In Liverpool they knocked down the original Cavern Club (just saying).Brahms \u2013 when he wasn't oozing melancholy in the direction of Clara Schumann \u2013 was deeply concerned with the idea of what German music might be, and how to make it purely German. In a cultural setting such as this the idea seems almost benign, and he spent a large part of his career embroiled in a row with Wagner about this very issue (I wasn't much of a fan of Wagner's music, and the more you get to know about him the less you like him; a couple of stirring tunes aside, he comes across as a truly ghastly man). Whether Brahms achieved his aim of creating purely German music I don't know \u2013 it seems to me to be suffused in melancholy more than anything else, and looking at his life of romantic yearning maybe that's more him than German-ness.Berlin seems as unlike Hamburg as London is unlike Paris. When trying to re-establish Berlin after the Thirty Years' War (and so much of what has happened in Berlin happens in the aftermath of war) the Prussian Elector Frederick William embraced religious tolerance as a way to get people to come and live there. French Huguenots fleeing persecution in France came to the city. Further east than you think, Berlin very much has the sense of being somewhere in the middle of Europe and caught in the political currents that have flowed through it. The politics feel raw: there are the distinctly different buildings in the eastern part of the city, not to mention the outline of the Wall, the Holocaust memorial, the site of Hitler's bunker (which is in what can be best described as a dog-shit car park). It's almost impossible not to be bludgeoned by history in Berlin.Leaving the north the tone changes again \u2013 on our way to Munich we visited Dresden, which, rather than being the smoking ruin of my foolish imagination, has been restored to its historic glory. But it was Munich \u2013 nearer Italy than Hamburg \u2013 where another Germany revealed itself: Catholic, alpine, a place where the tragic story of \"Mad\" King Ludwig\u00a0II marks Bavaria's end and the beginning of the era of unification and the Kaiser.Ludwig became king in 1864 when he was 18, but also at the point when the crown's power had pretty much dwindled away. So he set about the business of being kingly, styling himself on Louis XIV, building palaces, riding around in gaudy golden sleighs with electric lights \u2013 in other words, being generally fabulous. He borrowed vast sums, sponsored Wagner (who saw in the young king a great fleecing opportunity) and gave money to people on the streets. His palaces at Linderhof and Neuschwanstein are spectacular (if a little over the top), built with all the latest mod cons, such as central heating. However, Ludwig's romantic pursuit of being the perfect German prince didn't sit well in the age of the Iron Chancellor, and he came unstuck \u2013 deposed, declared mad and dying in mysterious circumstances. Ludwig's end coincides with an end to romantic frivolity in German culture and the assimilation of the search for national identity into mainstream politics. And we all know where that ended up.The three weeks we spent in Germany were fascinating. It staggers me, for a country with a German royal family, how uninterested we are in the place. Over 21 days, and two films, we managed not to mention the war (well, I mentioned it once but I think I got away with it). It's a huge, diverse, energetic place, and one that I really, really must visit without a film crew and have time to take in.Al Murray's German Adventure will be shown on 1 December at 9pm on BBC 4", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Travel", "Cultural trips", "Television", "Culture", "Berlin holidays", "Hamburg holidays", "Munich holidays", "Dresden holidays", "Second world war", "Adolf Hitler", "Music", "Richard Wagner", "Holocaust", "Al Murray"], "title": "Travel in Germany: Don't mention the war\u2026"},{"date": "2010-11-22T16:15:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has announced plans to abolish compulsory military service by next summer, marking the most radical overhaul of the armed forces since its postwar founding and a major change to German society.Under the reforms, which will transform the Bundeswehr into a fully professional defence force by July 2011, the size of the existing military and its inefficient bureaucratic apparatus will be considerably reduced as part of a cost-cutting exercise aimed at shaving about \u20ac8bn (\u00a36.8bn) from the defence spending budget.Speaking on the sidelines of a Dresden conference about the status of the military defence minister Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, called the decision \"responsible and right\".The changes follow recommendations by military experts who have called the armed forces \"ineffectual\" and \"in desperate need of modernisation\".Guttenberg said he envisaged the launch of a voluntary programme open to both men and women who will be able to serve in the military for up to 23 months, in order to appease the large number of Germans who are opposed to the changes to a core policy of postwar Germany, considered so sacred it is cemented in the constitution. But he stressed that the voluntary sector would not help Germany's ability to engage in missions abroad.The military was founded in 1955, and conscription \u2013 introduced two years later \u2013 has been seen as a necessary means to ensure the defence forces maintain a close relationship to civil society in order to prevent a repeat of the way in which the Nazi party was able to manipulate professional soldiers in the 1930s. But experts say it has prevented the military's modernisation.Chancellor Angela Merkel today appealed to Germany's generals to seize the chance to become \"symbols of the willingness to change\" and to set an example for the rest of the nation.\"You can make a really significant contribution to a modern and strong Germany,\" she said at the Dresden conference.Earlier this autumn her Christian Democratic Union and its sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU) voted in favour of abolishing national service at their annual party conferences, removing the last major political obstacle to broad defence reforms.The CDU also voted in favour of transforming the Germany military or Bundeswehr into a fully professional army, which military strategists have long argued was necessary to cope with modern demands. Most crucially they said it would increase its expeditionary capacity.The size of the military is to be reduced from 240,000 to 163,500 soldiers, but is expected to increase the number of troops capable of being deployed on foreign missions from the current 7,000 to 14,000.The decision is not only a groundbreaking one for the country's military but also poses a major challenge for the social welfare system. Until now thousands of young men from the age of 18, who either due to their pacifist views or for health reasons were excluded from national service duty, were drafted into posts at care homes and hospitals instead, where they were considered a valuable source of cheap labour.Provisions will now have to be made to plug a shortfall of around 90,000 such workers. The government has tried to play down the changes saying it will retain a programme for young people to volunteer for social work, arguing that the demand to take up such posts for post-school and pre-university youngsters will still exist even when national service is scrapped.", "tags": ["Germany", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany to abolish compulsory military service"},{"date": "2010-11-28T00:06:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The last time I was in Germany was in 2004, to film a documentary series called Road to Berlin, which detailed the last 11 months of the war in Europe. Everywhere we went in Germany was to do with the war or the Nazis: Nordhausen, the underground V-weapons factory; the site of Hitler's bunker in Berlin; Bergen-Belsen. Eventually, fascinating as this stuff was, it was becoming obvious to me that there had to be so much more to the place than these British tropes and the events of what was, after all, a 15-year period in the country's history.It is often stated that Germany was the most cultured country in the world (so how on earth did Nazism happen?), but I think it's fair to say we aren't that sure of what that culture was. And anyway, once you begin to look into it, it becomes clear that there wasn't any such place until pretty recently. Strictly speaking, Germany didn't exist until unification in 1871 (and there have been several Gemanies since).So earlier this year we went to Germany to look beyond the lazy and comfortable, almost Pavlovian stereotypes we have of this country, and discovered one thing more than anything else. I say \"we\" because every time I have been to Germany (save one trip 18 years ago to go to K\u00f6ln Comedy Festival) I've been with a film crew and, as was the case this time, the crew is entirely tangled up with my impression of the place; my perception of Germany has been through the prism of the programme we're making.First, the place is enormous. While we were not supposed to be thinking about the Nazis, the sheer size of the country makes you scratch your head at the idea of Lebensraum (Hitler's expansionist policy into countries in the east). We spent many long hours on the autobahn, complete with terrifyingly fast drivers, and there were times when it seemed we'd never get to Berlin.What gradually revealed itself as we travelled around investigating German culture was the imaginative grip that the idea of Germany exerted over its writers, musicians and architects. But also how much the place looked outwards for inspiration.We started our journey in Heiligendamm, a Baltic beach and spa resort almost as far north as you can go in Germany. While this may well be the perfect holiday resort in the summer, we were there in February. There were ice floes out to sea, the wind was whipping in off wherever it is that's very cold that the wind whips in off, and it seemed like we were off to an entirely hare-brained start. But Heiligendamm is a Regency-era resort, the buildings reminiscent of Brighton, and it was the seaside getaway for European princes and playboys \u2013 the Tsar had his own place there. The elegance of its white buildings echoes northern Germany's sophisticated and wealthy past.Also in Heiligendamm we found the first hint of a stereotype coming true: rather than watching their deck chairs get blown away into the Baltic, the locals stayed put by the beach thanks to the local invention of the strandkorb \u2013 literally beach basket. These huge two-person wicker monsters are half sedan chair, half sofa \u2013 a sort of 4x4 deck chair. They smack of German engineering and efficiency (as we, the British, see them); but as the wind whipped in from wherever, they just seemed sensible. And again and again, as we ventured south, the stereotypes fell away, and as usual, really said more about us than them.Hamburg, as we all know, gave us the Beatles. But it was also where Brahms grew up, playing with his father in pubs and bars, some of which could be described as dodgy. Just don't tell the Brahms scholar that. Germany is well suited to a cultural whistlestop tour because everywhere you go there are arts centres, lovingly restored birthplaces, archives, bilingual (thank God) scholars. In Liverpool they knocked down the original Cavern Club (just saying).Brahms \u2013 when he wasn't oozing melancholy in the direction of Clara Schumann \u2013 was deeply concerned with the idea of what German music might be, and how to make it purely German. In a cultural setting such as this the idea seems almost benign, and he spent a large part of his career embroiled in a row with Wagner about this very issue (I wasn't much of a fan of Wagner's music, and the more you get to know about him the less you like him; a couple of stirring tunes aside, he comes across as a truly ghastly man). Whether Brahms achieved his aim of creating purely German music I don't know \u2013 it seems to me to be suffused in melancholy more than anything else, and looking at his life of romantic yearning maybe that's more him than German-ness.Berlin seems as unlike Hamburg as London is unlike Paris. When trying to re-establish Berlin after the Thirty Years' War (and so much of what has happened in Berlin happens in the aftermath of war) the Prussian Elector Frederick William embraced religious tolerance as a way to get people to come and live there. French Huguenots fleeing persecution in France came to the city. Further east than you think, Berlin very much has the sense of being somewhere in the middle of Europe and caught in the political currents that have flowed through it. The politics feel raw: there are the distinctly different buildings in the eastern part of the city, not to mention the outline of the Wall, the Holocaust memorial, the site of Hitler's bunker (which is in what can be best described as a dog-shit car park). It's almost impossible not to be bludgeoned by history in Berlin.Leaving the north the tone changes again \u2013 on our way to Munich we visited Dresden, which, rather than being the smoking ruin of my foolish imagination, has been restored to its historic glory. But it was Munich \u2013 nearer Italy than Hamburg \u2013 where another Germany revealed itself: Catholic, alpine, a place where the tragic story of \"Mad\" King Ludwig\u00a0II marks Bavaria's end and the beginning of the era of unification and the Kaiser.Ludwig became king in 1864 when he was 18, but also at the point when the crown's power had pretty much dwindled away. So he set about the business of being kingly, styling himself on Louis XIV, building palaces, riding around in gaudy golden sleighs with electric lights \u2013 in other words, being generally fabulous. He borrowed vast sums, sponsored Wagner (who saw in the young king a great fleecing opportunity) and gave money to people on the streets. His palaces at Linderhof and Neuschwanstein are spectacular (if a little over the top), built with all the latest mod cons, such as central heating. However, Ludwig's romantic pursuit of being the perfect German prince didn't sit well in the age of the Iron Chancellor, and he came unstuck \u2013 deposed, declared mad and dying in mysterious circumstances. Ludwig's end coincides with an end to romantic frivolity in German culture and the assimilation of the search for national identity into mainstream politics. And we all know where that ended up.The three weeks we spent in Germany were fascinating. It staggers me, for a country with a German royal family, how uninterested we are in the place. Over 21 days, and two films, we managed not to mention the war (well, I mentioned it once but I think I got away with it). It's a huge, diverse, energetic place, and one that I really, really must visit without a film crew and have time to take in.Al Murray's German Adventure will be shown on 1 December at 9pm on BBC 4", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Travel", "Cultural trips", "Television", "Culture", "Berlin holidays", "Hamburg holidays", "Munich holidays", "Dresden holidays", "Second world war", "Adolf Hitler", "Music", "Richard Wagner", "Holocaust", "Al Murray"], "title": "Travel in Germany: Don't mention the war\u2026"},{"date": "2010-11-22T16:15:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has announced plans to abolish compulsory military service by next summer, marking the most radical overhaul of the armed forces since its postwar founding and a major change to German society.Under the reforms, which will transform the Bundeswehr into a fully professional defence force by July 2011, the size of the existing military and its inefficient bureaucratic apparatus will be considerably reduced as part of a cost-cutting exercise aimed at shaving about \u20ac8bn (\u00a36.8bn) from the defence spending budget.Speaking on the sidelines of a Dresden conference about the status of the military defence minister Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, called the decision \"responsible and right\".The changes follow recommendations by military experts who have called the armed forces \"ineffectual\" and \"in desperate need of modernisation\".Guttenberg said he envisaged the launch of a voluntary programme open to both men and women who will be able to serve in the military for up to 23 months, in order to appease the large number of Germans who are opposed to the changes to a core policy of postwar Germany, considered so sacred it is cemented in the constitution. But he stressed that the voluntary sector would not help Germany's ability to engage in missions abroad.The military was founded in 1955, and conscription \u2013 introduced two years later \u2013 has been seen as a necessary means to ensure the defence forces maintain a close relationship to civil society in order to prevent a repeat of the way in which the Nazi party was able to manipulate professional soldiers in the 1930s. But experts say it has prevented the military's modernisation.Chancellor Angela Merkel today appealed to Germany's generals to seize the chance to become \"symbols of the willingness to change\" and to set an example for the rest of the nation.\"You can make a really significant contribution to a modern and strong Germany,\" she said at the Dresden conference.Earlier this autumn her Christian Democratic Union and its sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU) voted in favour of abolishing national service at their annual party conferences, removing the last major political obstacle to broad defence reforms.The CDU also voted in favour of transforming the Germany military or Bundeswehr into a fully professional army, which military strategists have long argued was necessary to cope with modern demands. Most crucially they said it would increase its expeditionary capacity.The size of the military is to be reduced from 240,000 to 163,500 soldiers, but is expected to increase the number of troops capable of being deployed on foreign missions from the current 7,000 to 14,000.The decision is not only a groundbreaking one for the country's military but also poses a major challenge for the social welfare system. Until now thousands of young men from the age of 18, who either due to their pacifist views or for health reasons were excluded from national service duty, were drafted into posts at care homes and hospitals instead, where they were considered a valuable source of cheap labour.Provisions will now have to be made to plug a shortfall of around 90,000 such workers. The government has tried to play down the changes saying it will retain a programme for young people to volunteer for social work, arguing that the demand to take up such posts for post-school and pre-university youngsters will still exist even when national service is scrapped.", "tags": ["Germany", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany to abolish compulsory military service"},{"date": "2010-10-13T15:16:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Google has defended the rollout of its Street View mapping service in Germany, where it is the subject of a nationwide debate about online privacy, ahead of a Friday deadline for people wanting to opt out of being pictured on the site.Lena Wagner, a spokeswoman for Google in Germany, said that although the company takes privacy \"very seriously\", many of the fears about Street View are based on \"misinformation\".Google's announcement that it would launch its Street View product in 20 cities across Germany prompted calls for stricter data protection regulation and high-level meetings between the company and government officials.Google in turn made concessions to its planned rollout, allowing members of the public to opt out of being photographed on the service by 15 October.The Czech Republic last month banned Google from expanding its panoramic mapping service, saying the product \"disproportionately invades citizens' privacy\".In an interview with German broadcaster Deutsche Welle published on Wednesday, Wagner said: \"No two countries are ever the same and we work with the authorities in every country to address concerns they may have about Street View. All images in our Street View product abide by the local laws and cultural norms of the country they are taken in and Street View only features imagery taken on public property.\"Wagner said Google would publish the number of people who have chosen to opt out of the service when it has the information, but said the company has no plans to make the opt-out concession available in other countries.\"This imagery is no different from what any person can readily capture or see walking down the street themselves,\" she said. \"Imagery of this kind is available in a wide variety of formats for cities all around the world and on various sites on the web.\"[...] Many fears are based on misinformation, such as [the belief that] Street View imagery is [in] real-time \u2013 in fact it is anywhere between a few months to up to two years old at the time a given area is introduced. We take privacy protections very seriously and that's why we have developed state-of-the-art operational and technological controls for Street View, including the automatic blurring of faces and licence plates.\"Google has confirmed it will delete data such as addresses and names of people opting out of Street View in Germany within a period agreed upon by the country's data protection authority.Markus Beckedahl, editor of the influential Germany-based technology website Netzpolitik, separately told Deutsche Welle that the nationwide debate over Google Street View and privacy marked a watershed moment in German history.\"I don't think Google Street View is a debate about nothing,\" Beckedahl commented. \"But it sounds a bit crazy because Google Street View isn't the biggest privacy problem that we have in Germany. It's the first privacy debate where a lot of people can feel something about it.\"[...] Google Street View [is] something where my parents have an opinion about it, and maybe your parents do, too. This is a new level in that debate.\"The UK's information commissioner has ruled that the Google Street View service does not encroach on the privacy of citizens. Writing in response to a complaint by campaign group Privacy International in April 2009, the information commissioner said: \"If consent [to upload images of private citizens] were required by law, then the producers of, say, Match of the Day, would have to gain the consent of all people attending televised football matches who might be caught on camera.\"", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Google Street View", "Mapping technologies", "Internet", "Privacy", "Media", "Digital media"], "title": "Google defends Germany Street View rollout"},{"date": "2010-11-28T00:06:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The last time I was in Germany was in 2004, to film a documentary series called Road to Berlin, which detailed the last 11 months of the war in Europe. Everywhere we went in Germany was to do with the war or the Nazis: Nordhausen, the underground V-weapons factory; the site of Hitler's bunker in Berlin; Bergen-Belsen. Eventually, fascinating as this stuff was, it was becoming obvious to me that there had to be so much more to the place than these British tropes and the events of what was, after all, a 15-year period in the country's history.It is often stated that Germany was the most cultured country in the world (so how on earth did Nazism happen?), but I think it's fair to say we aren't that sure of what that culture was. And anyway, once you begin to look into it, it becomes clear that there wasn't any such place until pretty recently. Strictly speaking, Germany didn't exist until unification in 1871 (and there have been several Gemanies since).So earlier this year we went to Germany to look beyond the lazy and comfortable, almost Pavlovian stereotypes we have of this country, and discovered one thing more than anything else. I say \"we\" because every time I have been to Germany (save one trip 18 years ago to go to K\u00f6ln Comedy Festival) I've been with a film crew and, as was the case this time, the crew is entirely tangled up with my impression of the place; my perception of Germany has been through the prism of the programme we're making.First, the place is enormous. While we were not supposed to be thinking about the Nazis, the sheer size of the country makes you scratch your head at the idea of Lebensraum (Hitler's expansionist policy into countries in the east). We spent many long hours on the autobahn, complete with terrifyingly fast drivers, and there were times when it seemed we'd never get to Berlin.What gradually revealed itself as we travelled around investigating German culture was the imaginative grip that the idea of Germany exerted over its writers, musicians and architects. But also how much the place looked outwards for inspiration.We started our journey in Heiligendamm, a Baltic beach and spa resort almost as far north as you can go in Germany. While this may well be the perfect holiday resort in the summer, we were there in February. There were ice floes out to sea, the wind was whipping in off wherever it is that's very cold that the wind whips in off, and it seemed like we were off to an entirely hare-brained start. But Heiligendamm is a Regency-era resort, the buildings reminiscent of Brighton, and it was the seaside getaway for European princes and playboys \u2013 the Tsar had his own place there. The elegance of its white buildings echoes northern Germany's sophisticated and wealthy past.Also in Heiligendamm we found the first hint of a stereotype coming true: rather than watching their deck chairs get blown away into the Baltic, the locals stayed put by the beach thanks to the local invention of the strandkorb \u2013 literally beach basket. These huge two-person wicker monsters are half sedan chair, half sofa \u2013 a sort of 4x4 deck chair. They smack of German engineering and efficiency (as we, the British, see them); but as the wind whipped in from wherever, they just seemed sensible. And again and again, as we ventured south, the stereotypes fell away, and as usual, really said more about us than them.Hamburg, as we all know, gave us the Beatles. But it was also where Brahms grew up, playing with his father in pubs and bars, some of which could be described as dodgy. Just don't tell the Brahms scholar that. Germany is well suited to a cultural whistlestop tour because everywhere you go there are arts centres, lovingly restored birthplaces, archives, bilingual (thank God) scholars. In Liverpool they knocked down the original Cavern Club (just saying).Brahms \u2013 when he wasn't oozing melancholy in the direction of Clara Schumann \u2013 was deeply concerned with the idea of what German music might be, and how to make it purely German. In a cultural setting such as this the idea seems almost benign, and he spent a large part of his career embroiled in a row with Wagner about this very issue (I wasn't much of a fan of Wagner's music, and the more you get to know about him the less you like him; a couple of stirring tunes aside, he comes across as a truly ghastly man). Whether Brahms achieved his aim of creating purely German music I don't know \u2013 it seems to me to be suffused in melancholy more than anything else, and looking at his life of romantic yearning maybe that's more him than German-ness.Berlin seems as unlike Hamburg as London is unlike Paris. When trying to re-establish Berlin after the Thirty Years' War (and so much of what has happened in Berlin happens in the aftermath of war) the Prussian Elector Frederick William embraced religious tolerance as a way to get people to come and live there. French Huguenots fleeing persecution in France came to the city. Further east than you think, Berlin very much has the sense of being somewhere in the middle of Europe and caught in the political currents that have flowed through it. The politics feel raw: there are the distinctly different buildings in the eastern part of the city, not to mention the outline of the Wall, the Holocaust memorial, the site of Hitler's bunker (which is in what can be best described as a dog-shit car park). It's almost impossible not to be bludgeoned by history in Berlin.Leaving the north the tone changes again \u2013 on our way to Munich we visited Dresden, which, rather than being the smoking ruin of my foolish imagination, has been restored to its historic glory. But it was Munich \u2013 nearer Italy than Hamburg \u2013 where another Germany revealed itself: Catholic, alpine, a place where the tragic story of \"Mad\" King Ludwig\u00a0II marks Bavaria's end and the beginning of the era of unification and the Kaiser.Ludwig became king in 1864 when he was 18, but also at the point when the crown's power had pretty much dwindled away. So he set about the business of being kingly, styling himself on Louis XIV, building palaces, riding around in gaudy golden sleighs with electric lights \u2013 in other words, being generally fabulous. He borrowed vast sums, sponsored Wagner (who saw in the young king a great fleecing opportunity) and gave money to people on the streets. His palaces at Linderhof and Neuschwanstein are spectacular (if a little over the top), built with all the latest mod cons, such as central heating. However, Ludwig's romantic pursuit of being the perfect German prince didn't sit well in the age of the Iron Chancellor, and he came unstuck \u2013 deposed, declared mad and dying in mysterious circumstances. Ludwig's end coincides with an end to romantic frivolity in German culture and the assimilation of the search for national identity into mainstream politics. And we all know where that ended up.The three weeks we spent in Germany were fascinating. It staggers me, for a country with a German royal family, how uninterested we are in the place. Over 21 days, and two films, we managed not to mention the war (well, I mentioned it once but I think I got away with it). It's a huge, diverse, energetic place, and one that I really, really must visit without a film crew and have time to take in.Al Murray's German Adventure will be shown on 1 December at 9pm on BBC 4", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Travel", "Cultural trips", "Television", "Culture", "Berlin holidays", "Hamburg holidays", "Munich holidays", "Dresden holidays", "Second world war", "Adolf Hitler", "Music", "Richard Wagner", "Holocaust", "Al Murray"], "title": "Travel in Germany: Don't mention the war\u2026"},{"date": "2010-11-22T16:15:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has announced plans to abolish compulsory military service by next summer, marking the most radical overhaul of the armed forces since its postwar founding and a major change to German society.Under the reforms, which will transform the Bundeswehr into a fully professional defence force by July 2011, the size of the existing military and its inefficient bureaucratic apparatus will be considerably reduced as part of a cost-cutting exercise aimed at shaving about \u20ac8bn (\u00a36.8bn) from the defence spending budget.Speaking on the sidelines of a Dresden conference about the status of the military defence minister Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, called the decision \"responsible and right\".The changes follow recommendations by military experts who have called the armed forces \"ineffectual\" and \"in desperate need of modernisation\".Guttenberg said he envisaged the launch of a voluntary programme open to both men and women who will be able to serve in the military for up to 23 months, in order to appease the large number of Germans who are opposed to the changes to a core policy of postwar Germany, considered so sacred it is cemented in the constitution. But he stressed that the voluntary sector would not help Germany's ability to engage in missions abroad.The military was founded in 1955, and conscription \u2013 introduced two years later \u2013 has been seen as a necessary means to ensure the defence forces maintain a close relationship to civil society in order to prevent a repeat of the way in which the Nazi party was able to manipulate professional soldiers in the 1930s. But experts say it has prevented the military's modernisation.Chancellor Angela Merkel today appealed to Germany's generals to seize the chance to become \"symbols of the willingness to change\" and to set an example for the rest of the nation.\"You can make a really significant contribution to a modern and strong Germany,\" she said at the Dresden conference.Earlier this autumn her Christian Democratic Union and its sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU) voted in favour of abolishing national service at their annual party conferences, removing the last major political obstacle to broad defence reforms.The CDU also voted in favour of transforming the Germany military or Bundeswehr into a fully professional army, which military strategists have long argued was necessary to cope with modern demands. Most crucially they said it would increase its expeditionary capacity.The size of the military is to be reduced from 240,000 to 163,500 soldiers, but is expected to increase the number of troops capable of being deployed on foreign missions from the current 7,000 to 14,000.The decision is not only a groundbreaking one for the country's military but also poses a major challenge for the social welfare system. Until now thousands of young men from the age of 18, who either due to their pacifist views or for health reasons were excluded from national service duty, were drafted into posts at care homes and hospitals instead, where they were considered a valuable source of cheap labour.Provisions will now have to be made to plug a shortfall of around 90,000 such workers. The government has tried to play down the changes saying it will retain a programme for young people to volunteer for social work, arguing that the demand to take up such posts for post-school and pre-university youngsters will still exist even when national service is scrapped.", "tags": ["Germany", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany to abolish compulsory military service"},{"date": "2010-10-13T15:16:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Google has defended the rollout of its Street View mapping service in Germany, where it is the subject of a nationwide debate about online privacy, ahead of a Friday deadline for people wanting to opt out of being pictured on the site.Lena Wagner, a spokeswoman for Google in Germany, said that although the company takes privacy \"very seriously\", many of the fears about Street View are based on \"misinformation\".Google's announcement that it would launch its Street View product in 20 cities across Germany prompted calls for stricter data protection regulation and high-level meetings between the company and government officials.Google in turn made concessions to its planned rollout, allowing members of the public to opt out of being photographed on the service by 15 October.The Czech Republic last month banned Google from expanding its panoramic mapping service, saying the product \"disproportionately invades citizens' privacy\".In an interview with German broadcaster Deutsche Welle published on Wednesday, Wagner said: \"No two countries are ever the same and we work with the authorities in every country to address concerns they may have about Street View. All images in our Street View product abide by the local laws and cultural norms of the country they are taken in and Street View only features imagery taken on public property.\"Wagner said Google would publish the number of people who have chosen to opt out of the service when it has the information, but said the company has no plans to make the opt-out concession available in other countries.\"This imagery is no different from what any person can readily capture or see walking down the street themselves,\" she said. \"Imagery of this kind is available in a wide variety of formats for cities all around the world and on various sites on the web.\"[...] Many fears are based on misinformation, such as [the belief that] Street View imagery is [in] real-time \u2013 in fact it is anywhere between a few months to up to two years old at the time a given area is introduced. We take privacy protections very seriously and that's why we have developed state-of-the-art operational and technological controls for Street View, including the automatic blurring of faces and licence plates.\"Google has confirmed it will delete data such as addresses and names of people opting out of Street View in Germany within a period agreed upon by the country's data protection authority.Markus Beckedahl, editor of the influential Germany-based technology website Netzpolitik, separately told Deutsche Welle that the nationwide debate over Google Street View and privacy marked a watershed moment in German history.\"I don't think Google Street View is a debate about nothing,\" Beckedahl commented. \"But it sounds a bit crazy because Google Street View isn't the biggest privacy problem that we have in Germany. It's the first privacy debate where a lot of people can feel something about it.\"[...] Google Street View [is] something where my parents have an opinion about it, and maybe your parents do, too. This is a new level in that debate.\"The UK's information commissioner has ruled that the Google Street View service does not encroach on the privacy of citizens. Writing in response to a complaint by campaign group Privacy International in April 2009, the information commissioner said: \"If consent [to upload images of private citizens] were required by law, then the producers of, say, Match of the Day, would have to gain the consent of all people attending televised football matches who might be caught on camera.\"", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Google Street View", "Mapping technologies", "Internet", "Privacy", "Media", "Digital media"], "title": "Google defends Germany Street View rollout"},{"date": "2010-12-10T07:00:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "When Der Spiegel appeared with its cover story on the cables on Monday 29 November, Germany had a new \"most wanted\" figure. Who, wondered the media, was the mysterious man who had been briefing the American embassy about the coalition negotiations in the immediate aftermath of the German general election in 2009?The man had been described only as a \"well placed source\" within the Free Democratic party (FDP), which had just become the junior partner in the new conservative German government. After several days of denying the significance of what came to be known as the \"FDP Spy Affair\", the party started to interview \"suspects\" and found the culprit, who, it turned out, had even supplied the Americans with copies from its negotiations folder: it was Helmut Metzner, head of the office of the party chairman and vice-chancellor Guido Westerwelle. The FDP removed him from Westerwelle's office, and this week his contract was cancelled completely.The position of US ambassador Phil Murphy is also precarious. Though the official line is that he will stay, privately, many politicians believe Murphy has to go. But Hans-Michael Goldmann, an FDP member of the Bundestag spoke out in public: \"Mr Murphy's behaviour is unseemly. A mission chief like him has to be recalled.\"And as for the papers, who didn't get access to the cables? In the S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung, Stefan Kornelius writes: \"Publishing the cables in the name of freedom is damaging. They destroy politics, they endanger people \u2026 and they could influence economies.\" Ulrich Greiner in the weekly Die Zeit, compared Julian Assange to Zorro the avenger, accusing Der Spiegel and the other publications which published the data of destroying trust.But Jakob Augstein, the son of the Spiegel founder Rudolf Augstein, wrote in his publication Der Freitag on 3 December: \"Any journalist whose first reaction to the Wikileaks data is to talk about national security, or even worse, the security of the western world, is not doing their job \u2014 and damaging press freedom to boot.\"", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "WikiLeaks", "Media", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines", "World news", "US news", "Germany", "Europe"], "title": "Wikileaks cables started a 'spy hunt' in Germany"},{"date": "2010-11-28T00:06:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The last time I was in Germany was in 2004, to film a documentary series called Road to Berlin, which detailed the last 11 months of the war in Europe. Everywhere we went in Germany was to do with the war or the Nazis: Nordhausen, the underground V-weapons factory; the site of Hitler's bunker in Berlin; Bergen-Belsen. Eventually, fascinating as this stuff was, it was becoming obvious to me that there had to be so much more to the place than these British tropes and the events of what was, after all, a 15-year period in the country's history.It is often stated that Germany was the most cultured country in the world (so how on earth did Nazism happen?), but I think it's fair to say we aren't that sure of what that culture was. And anyway, once you begin to look into it, it becomes clear that there wasn't any such place until pretty recently. Strictly speaking, Germany didn't exist until unification in 1871 (and there have been several Gemanies since).So earlier this year we went to Germany to look beyond the lazy and comfortable, almost Pavlovian stereotypes we have of this country, and discovered one thing more than anything else. I say \"we\" because every time I have been to Germany (save one trip 18 years ago to go to K\u00f6ln Comedy Festival) I've been with a film crew and, as was the case this time, the crew is entirely tangled up with my impression of the place; my perception of Germany has been through the prism of the programme we're making.First, the place is enormous. While we were not supposed to be thinking about the Nazis, the sheer size of the country makes you scratch your head at the idea of Lebensraum (Hitler's expansionist policy into countries in the east). We spent many long hours on the autobahn, complete with terrifyingly fast drivers, and there were times when it seemed we'd never get to Berlin.What gradually revealed itself as we travelled around investigating German culture was the imaginative grip that the idea of Germany exerted over its writers, musicians and architects. But also how much the place looked outwards for inspiration.We started our journey in Heiligendamm, a Baltic beach and spa resort almost as far north as you can go in Germany. While this may well be the perfect holiday resort in the summer, we were there in February. There were ice floes out to sea, the wind was whipping in off wherever it is that's very cold that the wind whips in off, and it seemed like we were off to an entirely hare-brained start. But Heiligendamm is a Regency-era resort, the buildings reminiscent of Brighton, and it was the seaside getaway for European princes and playboys \u2013 the Tsar had his own place there. The elegance of its white buildings echoes northern Germany's sophisticated and wealthy past.Also in Heiligendamm we found the first hint of a stereotype coming true: rather than watching their deck chairs get blown away into the Baltic, the locals stayed put by the beach thanks to the local invention of the strandkorb \u2013 literally beach basket. These huge two-person wicker monsters are half sedan chair, half sofa \u2013 a sort of 4x4 deck chair. They smack of German engineering and efficiency (as we, the British, see them); but as the wind whipped in from wherever, they just seemed sensible. And again and again, as we ventured south, the stereotypes fell away, and as usual, really said more about us than them.Hamburg, as we all know, gave us the Beatles. But it was also where Brahms grew up, playing with his father in pubs and bars, some of which could be described as dodgy. Just don't tell the Brahms scholar that. Germany is well suited to a cultural whistlestop tour because everywhere you go there are arts centres, lovingly restored birthplaces, archives, bilingual (thank God) scholars. In Liverpool they knocked down the original Cavern Club (just saying).Brahms \u2013 when he wasn't oozing melancholy in the direction of Clara Schumann \u2013 was deeply concerned with the idea of what German music might be, and how to make it purely German. In a cultural setting such as this the idea seems almost benign, and he spent a large part of his career embroiled in a row with Wagner about this very issue (I wasn't much of a fan of Wagner's music, and the more you get to know about him the less you like him; a couple of stirring tunes aside, he comes across as a truly ghastly man). Whether Brahms achieved his aim of creating purely German music I don't know \u2013 it seems to me to be suffused in melancholy more than anything else, and looking at his life of romantic yearning maybe that's more him than German-ness.Berlin seems as unlike Hamburg as London is unlike Paris. When trying to re-establish Berlin after the Thirty Years' War (and so much of what has happened in Berlin happens in the aftermath of war) the Prussian Elector Frederick William embraced religious tolerance as a way to get people to come and live there. French Huguenots fleeing persecution in France came to the city. Further east than you think, Berlin very much has the sense of being somewhere in the middle of Europe and caught in the political currents that have flowed through it. The politics feel raw: there are the distinctly different buildings in the eastern part of the city, not to mention the outline of the Wall, the Holocaust memorial, the site of Hitler's bunker (which is in what can be best described as a dog-shit car park). It's almost impossible not to be bludgeoned by history in Berlin.Leaving the north the tone changes again \u2013 on our way to Munich we visited Dresden, which, rather than being the smoking ruin of my foolish imagination, has been restored to its historic glory. But it was Munich \u2013 nearer Italy than Hamburg \u2013 where another Germany revealed itself: Catholic, alpine, a place where the tragic story of \"Mad\" King Ludwig\u00a0II marks Bavaria's end and the beginning of the era of unification and the Kaiser.Ludwig became king in 1864 when he was 18, but also at the point when the crown's power had pretty much dwindled away. So he set about the business of being kingly, styling himself on Louis XIV, building palaces, riding around in gaudy golden sleighs with electric lights \u2013 in other words, being generally fabulous. He borrowed vast sums, sponsored Wagner (who saw in the young king a great fleecing opportunity) and gave money to people on the streets. His palaces at Linderhof and Neuschwanstein are spectacular (if a little over the top), built with all the latest mod cons, such as central heating. However, Ludwig's romantic pursuit of being the perfect German prince didn't sit well in the age of the Iron Chancellor, and he came unstuck \u2013 deposed, declared mad and dying in mysterious circumstances. Ludwig's end coincides with an end to romantic frivolity in German culture and the assimilation of the search for national identity into mainstream politics. And we all know where that ended up.The three weeks we spent in Germany were fascinating. It staggers me, for a country with a German royal family, how uninterested we are in the place. Over 21 days, and two films, we managed not to mention the war (well, I mentioned it once but I think I got away with it). It's a huge, diverse, energetic place, and one that I really, really must visit without a film crew and have time to take in.Al Murray's German Adventure will be shown on 1 December at 9pm on BBC 4", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Travel", "Cultural trips", "Television", "Culture", "Berlin holidays", "Hamburg holidays", "Munich holidays", "Dresden holidays", "Second world war", "Adolf Hitler", "Music", "Richard Wagner", "Holocaust", "Al Murray"], "title": "Travel in Germany: Don't mention the war\u2026"},{"date": "2010-11-22T16:15:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has announced plans to abolish compulsory military service by next summer, marking the most radical overhaul of the armed forces since its postwar founding and a major change to German society.Under the reforms, which will transform the Bundeswehr into a fully professional defence force by July 2011, the size of the existing military and its inefficient bureaucratic apparatus will be considerably reduced as part of a cost-cutting exercise aimed at shaving about \u20ac8bn (\u00a36.8bn) from the defence spending budget.Speaking on the sidelines of a Dresden conference about the status of the military defence minister Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, called the decision \"responsible and right\".The changes follow recommendations by military experts who have called the armed forces \"ineffectual\" and \"in desperate need of modernisation\".Guttenberg said he envisaged the launch of a voluntary programme open to both men and women who will be able to serve in the military for up to 23 months, in order to appease the large number of Germans who are opposed to the changes to a core policy of postwar Germany, considered so sacred it is cemented in the constitution. But he stressed that the voluntary sector would not help Germany's ability to engage in missions abroad.The military was founded in 1955, and conscription \u2013 introduced two years later \u2013 has been seen as a necessary means to ensure the defence forces maintain a close relationship to civil society in order to prevent a repeat of the way in which the Nazi party was able to manipulate professional soldiers in the 1930s. But experts say it has prevented the military's modernisation.Chancellor Angela Merkel today appealed to Germany's generals to seize the chance to become \"symbols of the willingness to change\" and to set an example for the rest of the nation.\"You can make a really significant contribution to a modern and strong Germany,\" she said at the Dresden conference.Earlier this autumn her Christian Democratic Union and its sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU) voted in favour of abolishing national service at their annual party conferences, removing the last major political obstacle to broad defence reforms.The CDU also voted in favour of transforming the Germany military or Bundeswehr into a fully professional army, which military strategists have long argued was necessary to cope with modern demands. Most crucially they said it would increase its expeditionary capacity.The size of the military is to be reduced from 240,000 to 163,500 soldiers, but is expected to increase the number of troops capable of being deployed on foreign missions from the current 7,000 to 14,000.The decision is not only a groundbreaking one for the country's military but also poses a major challenge for the social welfare system. Until now thousands of young men from the age of 18, who either due to their pacifist views or for health reasons were excluded from national service duty, were drafted into posts at care homes and hospitals instead, where they were considered a valuable source of cheap labour.Provisions will now have to be made to plug a shortfall of around 90,000 such workers. The government has tried to play down the changes saying it will retain a programme for young people to volunteer for social work, arguing that the demand to take up such posts for post-school and pre-university youngsters will still exist even when national service is scrapped.", "tags": ["Germany", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany to abolish compulsory military service"},{"date": "2010-10-13T15:16:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Google has defended the rollout of its Street View mapping service in Germany, where it is the subject of a nationwide debate about online privacy, ahead of a Friday deadline for people wanting to opt out of being pictured on the site.Lena Wagner, a spokeswoman for Google in Germany, said that although the company takes privacy \"very seriously\", many of the fears about Street View are based on \"misinformation\".Google's announcement that it would launch its Street View product in 20 cities across Germany prompted calls for stricter data protection regulation and high-level meetings between the company and government officials.Google in turn made concessions to its planned rollout, allowing members of the public to opt out of being photographed on the service by 15 October.The Czech Republic last month banned Google from expanding its panoramic mapping service, saying the product \"disproportionately invades citizens' privacy\".In an interview with German broadcaster Deutsche Welle published on Wednesday, Wagner said: \"No two countries are ever the same and we work with the authorities in every country to address concerns they may have about Street View. All images in our Street View product abide by the local laws and cultural norms of the country they are taken in and Street View only features imagery taken on public property.\"Wagner said Google would publish the number of people who have chosen to opt out of the service when it has the information, but said the company has no plans to make the opt-out concession available in other countries.\"This imagery is no different from what any person can readily capture or see walking down the street themselves,\" she said. \"Imagery of this kind is available in a wide variety of formats for cities all around the world and on various sites on the web.\"[...] Many fears are based on misinformation, such as [the belief that] Street View imagery is [in] real-time \u2013 in fact it is anywhere between a few months to up to two years old at the time a given area is introduced. We take privacy protections very seriously and that's why we have developed state-of-the-art operational and technological controls for Street View, including the automatic blurring of faces and licence plates.\"Google has confirmed it will delete data such as addresses and names of people opting out of Street View in Germany within a period agreed upon by the country's data protection authority.Markus Beckedahl, editor of the influential Germany-based technology website Netzpolitik, separately told Deutsche Welle that the nationwide debate over Google Street View and privacy marked a watershed moment in German history.\"I don't think Google Street View is a debate about nothing,\" Beckedahl commented. \"But it sounds a bit crazy because Google Street View isn't the biggest privacy problem that we have in Germany. It's the first privacy debate where a lot of people can feel something about it.\"[...] Google Street View [is] something where my parents have an opinion about it, and maybe your parents do, too. This is a new level in that debate.\"The UK's information commissioner has ruled that the Google Street View service does not encroach on the privacy of citizens. Writing in response to a complaint by campaign group Privacy International in April 2009, the information commissioner said: \"If consent [to upload images of private citizens] were required by law, then the producers of, say, Match of the Day, would have to gain the consent of all people attending televised football matches who might be caught on camera.\"", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Google Street View", "Mapping technologies", "Internet", "Privacy", "Media", "Digital media"], "title": "Google defends Germany Street View rollout"},{"date": "2010-12-10T07:00:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "When Der Spiegel appeared with its cover story on the cables on Monday 29 November, Germany had a new \"most wanted\" figure. Who, wondered the media, was the mysterious man who had been briefing the American embassy about the coalition negotiations in the immediate aftermath of the German general election in 2009?The man had been described only as a \"well placed source\" within the Free Democratic party (FDP), which had just become the junior partner in the new conservative German government. After several days of denying the significance of what came to be known as the \"FDP Spy Affair\", the party started to interview \"suspects\" and found the culprit, who, it turned out, had even supplied the Americans with copies from its negotiations folder: it was Helmut Metzner, head of the office of the party chairman and vice-chancellor Guido Westerwelle. The FDP removed him from Westerwelle's office, and this week his contract was cancelled completely.The position of US ambassador Phil Murphy is also precarious. Though the official line is that he will stay, privately, many politicians believe Murphy has to go. But Hans-Michael Goldmann, an FDP member of the Bundestag spoke out in public: \"Mr Murphy's behaviour is unseemly. A mission chief like him has to be recalled.\"And as for the papers, who didn't get access to the cables? In the S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung, Stefan Kornelius writes: \"Publishing the cables in the name of freedom is damaging. They destroy politics, they endanger people \u2026 and they could influence economies.\" Ulrich Greiner in the weekly Die Zeit, compared Julian Assange to Zorro the avenger, accusing Der Spiegel and the other publications which published the data of destroying trust.But Jakob Augstein, the son of the Spiegel founder Rudolf Augstein, wrote in his publication Der Freitag on 3 December: \"Any journalist whose first reaction to the Wikileaks data is to talk about national security, or even worse, the security of the western world, is not doing their job \u2014 and damaging press freedom to boot.\"", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "WikiLeaks", "Media", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines", "World news", "US news", "Germany", "Europe"], "title": "Wikileaks cables started a 'spy hunt' in Germany"},{"date": "2010-12-03T18:05:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has warned for the first time that her country could abandon the euro if she fails in her contested campaign to establish a new regime for the single currency, the Guardian has learned.At an EU summit in Brussels at the end of October that was dominated by the euro crisis and wrangling over whether to bail out Ireland, Merkel became embroiled in a row with the Greek prime minister, George Papandreou, according to participants at the event's Thursday dinner.Merkel's central aim, which she achieved, was to win agreement on re-opening the Lisbon treaty so a permanent system of bailout funding and investor losses could be established to deal with debt crises that have laid Greece and Ireland low and are threatening Portugal and Spain. The Germans also called for bailed-out countries to lose voting rights in EU councils.At the Brussels dinner on 28 October attended by 27 EU heads of government or state, the presidents of the European commission and council, and the head of the European Central Bank, witnesses said Papandreou accused Merkel of tabling proposals that were \"undemocratic\".\"If this is the sort of club the euro is becoming, perhaps Germany should leave,\" Merkel replied, according to non-German government figures at the dinner. It was the first time in the 10 months since the euro was plunged into a fight for its survival that Germany, the EU's economic powerhouse and the lynchpin of the euro's viability, had suggested that quitting the currency is an option, however unlikely.Merkel's spokesman Steffen Seibert would not comment on her remarks today. But the threat, he said, was \"not plausible. The chancellor sees the euro as the central European project, wants to secure and defend it and the government is not at all thinking of leaving it,\" he said. \"Germany is unconditionally and resolutely committed to the euro.\"Despite overwhelming opposition to her calls for depriving eurozone countries of their EU votes if they need to be bailed out, Merkel stuck to her guns on the issue at the summit, while conceding that the proposal would not feature at another summit in Brussels in two weeks' time.She argued that under the Lisbon treaty, which came into force a year ago, EU member states can have their voting rights suspended if deemed guilty of gross human rights violations. \"If this is possible for human rights infringements, the same degree of seriousness needs to be awarded to the euro,\" Merkel told the summit, according to the witnesses. She shelved the demand for suspension of voting, however, but won the argument on more limited change of the treaty to enable a \"permanent crisis mechanism\" to be established for the currency from mid-2013. This was rechristened the European stability Mechanism at last Sunday's emergency meeting of EU finance ministers in Brussels which decided on an \u20ac85bn (\u00a372bn) bailout for Ireland.Insisting on the loss of votes would have outraged most other EU governments. The Lisbon treaty would have needed renegotiation, opening a pandora's box of possible referendums in Ireland, the Czech Republic, and Britain, and placing immense strain on the EU's survival.EU finance ministers are to meet again early next week ahead of the summit on 16-17 December. The mood in Brussels is febrile and there have been rumours of another extraordinary summit or session of finance ministers this weekend.Officials said today there were \"no plans\" for a weekend session. But it is virtually taken for granted that Portugal will need to be bailed out and the \u20ac750bn rescue fund agreed in May may need to be increased as insurance against a Spanish emergency. Two EU ambassadors told the Guardian Portugal would need to be rescued very soon, despite repeated public statements to the contrary.The summit in two weeks' time, said a senior European diplomat, would be preoccupied with the treaty change needed for a permanent bailout mechanism to be established when the \u20ac750bn fund expires in mid-2013. \"The real question is, is there enough in the fund? If not, how much more do we need?\" the diplomat added.\"Portugal will need to be saved. The big issue is Spain,\" said another senior diplomat.Since the euro crisis erupted this year with Greece heading for sovereign debt default until it was bailed out in May, Merkel has repeatedly insisted that the primacy of politics over the financial markets has to be restored. That has yet to happen as Europe's leaders flail around in a mood of worsening \"panic and despair\", according to diplomats and officials in Brussels.The current phase in the crisis started when Merkel and the French president Nicolas Sarkozy met in mid-October and delivered an ultimatum to the other 25 EU leaders: the treaty would be reopened and a permanent rescue system created which would entail \"haircuts\" or losses for creditors and investors if eurozone countries need to be bailed out.Although this is to take place only from 2013, the markets took fright at the scale of potential bond losses, pushed Ireland's borrowing costs ruinously high, and forced last week's bailout of the Irish.Diplomats, analysts, and officials generally agree that Merkel is right to focus on \"moral hazard\", insisting that the markets and not only governments and taxpayers have to share the losses if a eurozone country implodes. But her timing could not have been worse, they add.", "tags": ["Angela Merkel", "Euro", "Germany", "Greece", "European Union", "Economics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Angela Merkel warned that Germany could abandon the euro"},{"date": "2010-11-28T00:06:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The last time I was in Germany was in 2004, to film a documentary series called Road to Berlin, which detailed the last 11 months of the war in Europe. Everywhere we went in Germany was to do with the war or the Nazis: Nordhausen, the underground V-weapons factory; the site of Hitler's bunker in Berlin; Bergen-Belsen. Eventually, fascinating as this stuff was, it was becoming obvious to me that there had to be so much more to the place than these British tropes and the events of what was, after all, a 15-year period in the country's history.It is often stated that Germany was the most cultured country in the world (so how on earth did Nazism happen?), but I think it's fair to say we aren't that sure of what that culture was. And anyway, once you begin to look into it, it becomes clear that there wasn't any such place until pretty recently. Strictly speaking, Germany didn't exist until unification in 1871 (and there have been several Gemanies since).So earlier this year we went to Germany to look beyond the lazy and comfortable, almost Pavlovian stereotypes we have of this country, and discovered one thing more than anything else. I say \"we\" because every time I have been to Germany (save one trip 18 years ago to go to K\u00f6ln Comedy Festival) I've been with a film crew and, as was the case this time, the crew is entirely tangled up with my impression of the place; my perception of Germany has been through the prism of the programme we're making.First, the place is enormous. While we were not supposed to be thinking about the Nazis, the sheer size of the country makes you scratch your head at the idea of Lebensraum (Hitler's expansionist policy into countries in the east). We spent many long hours on the autobahn, complete with terrifyingly fast drivers, and there were times when it seemed we'd never get to Berlin.What gradually revealed itself as we travelled around investigating German culture was the imaginative grip that the idea of Germany exerted over its writers, musicians and architects. But also how much the place looked outwards for inspiration.We started our journey in Heiligendamm, a Baltic beach and spa resort almost as far north as you can go in Germany. While this may well be the perfect holiday resort in the summer, we were there in February. There were ice floes out to sea, the wind was whipping in off wherever it is that's very cold that the wind whips in off, and it seemed like we were off to an entirely hare-brained start. But Heiligendamm is a Regency-era resort, the buildings reminiscent of Brighton, and it was the seaside getaway for European princes and playboys \u2013 the Tsar had his own place there. The elegance of its white buildings echoes northern Germany's sophisticated and wealthy past.Also in Heiligendamm we found the first hint of a stereotype coming true: rather than watching their deck chairs get blown away into the Baltic, the locals stayed put by the beach thanks to the local invention of the strandkorb \u2013 literally beach basket. These huge two-person wicker monsters are half sedan chair, half sofa \u2013 a sort of 4x4 deck chair. They smack of German engineering and efficiency (as we, the British, see them); but as the wind whipped in from wherever, they just seemed sensible. And again and again, as we ventured south, the stereotypes fell away, and as usual, really said more about us than them.Hamburg, as we all know, gave us the Beatles. But it was also where Brahms grew up, playing with his father in pubs and bars, some of which could be described as dodgy. Just don't tell the Brahms scholar that. Germany is well suited to a cultural whistlestop tour because everywhere you go there are arts centres, lovingly restored birthplaces, archives, bilingual (thank God) scholars. In Liverpool they knocked down the original Cavern Club (just saying).Brahms \u2013 when he wasn't oozing melancholy in the direction of Clara Schumann \u2013 was deeply concerned with the idea of what German music might be, and how to make it purely German. In a cultural setting such as this the idea seems almost benign, and he spent a large part of his career embroiled in a row with Wagner about this very issue (I wasn't much of a fan of Wagner's music, and the more you get to know about him the less you like him; a couple of stirring tunes aside, he comes across as a truly ghastly man). Whether Brahms achieved his aim of creating purely German music I don't know \u2013 it seems to me to be suffused in melancholy more than anything else, and looking at his life of romantic yearning maybe that's more him than German-ness.Berlin seems as unlike Hamburg as London is unlike Paris. When trying to re-establish Berlin after the Thirty Years' War (and so much of what has happened in Berlin happens in the aftermath of war) the Prussian Elector Frederick William embraced religious tolerance as a way to get people to come and live there. French Huguenots fleeing persecution in France came to the city. Further east than you think, Berlin very much has the sense of being somewhere in the middle of Europe and caught in the political currents that have flowed through it. The politics feel raw: there are the distinctly different buildings in the eastern part of the city, not to mention the outline of the Wall, the Holocaust memorial, the site of Hitler's bunker (which is in what can be best described as a dog-shit car park). It's almost impossible not to be bludgeoned by history in Berlin.Leaving the north the tone changes again \u2013 on our way to Munich we visited Dresden, which, rather than being the smoking ruin of my foolish imagination, has been restored to its historic glory. But it was Munich \u2013 nearer Italy than Hamburg \u2013 where another Germany revealed itself: Catholic, alpine, a place where the tragic story of \"Mad\" King Ludwig\u00a0II marks Bavaria's end and the beginning of the era of unification and the Kaiser.Ludwig became king in 1864 when he was 18, but also at the point when the crown's power had pretty much dwindled away. So he set about the business of being kingly, styling himself on Louis XIV, building palaces, riding around in gaudy golden sleighs with electric lights \u2013 in other words, being generally fabulous. He borrowed vast sums, sponsored Wagner (who saw in the young king a great fleecing opportunity) and gave money to people on the streets. His palaces at Linderhof and Neuschwanstein are spectacular (if a little over the top), built with all the latest mod cons, such as central heating. However, Ludwig's romantic pursuit of being the perfect German prince didn't sit well in the age of the Iron Chancellor, and he came unstuck \u2013 deposed, declared mad and dying in mysterious circumstances. Ludwig's end coincides with an end to romantic frivolity in German culture and the assimilation of the search for national identity into mainstream politics. And we all know where that ended up.The three weeks we spent in Germany were fascinating. It staggers me, for a country with a German royal family, how uninterested we are in the place. Over 21 days, and two films, we managed not to mention the war (well, I mentioned it once but I think I got away with it). It's a huge, diverse, energetic place, and one that I really, really must visit without a film crew and have time to take in.Al Murray's German Adventure will be shown on 1 December at 9pm on BBC 4", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Travel", "Cultural trips", "Television", "Culture", "Berlin holidays", "Hamburg holidays", "Munich holidays", "Dresden holidays", "Second world war", "Adolf Hitler", "Music", "Richard Wagner", "Holocaust", "Al Murray"], "title": "Travel in Germany: Don't mention the war\u2026"},{"date": "2010-11-22T16:15:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has announced plans to abolish compulsory military service by next summer, marking the most radical overhaul of the armed forces since its postwar founding and a major change to German society.Under the reforms, which will transform the Bundeswehr into a fully professional defence force by July 2011, the size of the existing military and its inefficient bureaucratic apparatus will be considerably reduced as part of a cost-cutting exercise aimed at shaving about \u20ac8bn (\u00a36.8bn) from the defence spending budget.Speaking on the sidelines of a Dresden conference about the status of the military defence minister Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, called the decision \"responsible and right\".The changes follow recommendations by military experts who have called the armed forces \"ineffectual\" and \"in desperate need of modernisation\".Guttenberg said he envisaged the launch of a voluntary programme open to both men and women who will be able to serve in the military for up to 23 months, in order to appease the large number of Germans who are opposed to the changes to a core policy of postwar Germany, considered so sacred it is cemented in the constitution. But he stressed that the voluntary sector would not help Germany's ability to engage in missions abroad.The military was founded in 1955, and conscription \u2013 introduced two years later \u2013 has been seen as a necessary means to ensure the defence forces maintain a close relationship to civil society in order to prevent a repeat of the way in which the Nazi party was able to manipulate professional soldiers in the 1930s. But experts say it has prevented the military's modernisation.Chancellor Angela Merkel today appealed to Germany's generals to seize the chance to become \"symbols of the willingness to change\" and to set an example for the rest of the nation.\"You can make a really significant contribution to a modern and strong Germany,\" she said at the Dresden conference.Earlier this autumn her Christian Democratic Union and its sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU) voted in favour of abolishing national service at their annual party conferences, removing the last major political obstacle to broad defence reforms.The CDU also voted in favour of transforming the Germany military or Bundeswehr into a fully professional army, which military strategists have long argued was necessary to cope with modern demands. Most crucially they said it would increase its expeditionary capacity.The size of the military is to be reduced from 240,000 to 163,500 soldiers, but is expected to increase the number of troops capable of being deployed on foreign missions from the current 7,000 to 14,000.The decision is not only a groundbreaking one for the country's military but also poses a major challenge for the social welfare system. Until now thousands of young men from the age of 18, who either due to their pacifist views or for health reasons were excluded from national service duty, were drafted into posts at care homes and hospitals instead, where they were considered a valuable source of cheap labour.Provisions will now have to be made to plug a shortfall of around 90,000 such workers. The government has tried to play down the changes saying it will retain a programme for young people to volunteer for social work, arguing that the demand to take up such posts for post-school and pre-university youngsters will still exist even when national service is scrapped.", "tags": ["Germany", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany to abolish compulsory military service"},{"date": "2010-10-13T15:16:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Google has defended the rollout of its Street View mapping service in Germany, where it is the subject of a nationwide debate about online privacy, ahead of a Friday deadline for people wanting to opt out of being pictured on the site.Lena Wagner, a spokeswoman for Google in Germany, said that although the company takes privacy \"very seriously\", many of the fears about Street View are based on \"misinformation\".Google's announcement that it would launch its Street View product in 20 cities across Germany prompted calls for stricter data protection regulation and high-level meetings between the company and government officials.Google in turn made concessions to its planned rollout, allowing members of the public to opt out of being photographed on the service by 15 October.The Czech Republic last month banned Google from expanding its panoramic mapping service, saying the product \"disproportionately invades citizens' privacy\".In an interview with German broadcaster Deutsche Welle published on Wednesday, Wagner said: \"No two countries are ever the same and we work with the authorities in every country to address concerns they may have about Street View. All images in our Street View product abide by the local laws and cultural norms of the country they are taken in and Street View only features imagery taken on public property.\"Wagner said Google would publish the number of people who have chosen to opt out of the service when it has the information, but said the company has no plans to make the opt-out concession available in other countries.\"This imagery is no different from what any person can readily capture or see walking down the street themselves,\" she said. \"Imagery of this kind is available in a wide variety of formats for cities all around the world and on various sites on the web.\"[...] Many fears are based on misinformation, such as [the belief that] Street View imagery is [in] real-time \u2013 in fact it is anywhere between a few months to up to two years old at the time a given area is introduced. We take privacy protections very seriously and that's why we have developed state-of-the-art operational and technological controls for Street View, including the automatic blurring of faces and licence plates.\"Google has confirmed it will delete data such as addresses and names of people opting out of Street View in Germany within a period agreed upon by the country's data protection authority.Markus Beckedahl, editor of the influential Germany-based technology website Netzpolitik, separately told Deutsche Welle that the nationwide debate over Google Street View and privacy marked a watershed moment in German history.\"I don't think Google Street View is a debate about nothing,\" Beckedahl commented. \"But it sounds a bit crazy because Google Street View isn't the biggest privacy problem that we have in Germany. It's the first privacy debate where a lot of people can feel something about it.\"[...] Google Street View [is] something where my parents have an opinion about it, and maybe your parents do, too. This is a new level in that debate.\"The UK's information commissioner has ruled that the Google Street View service does not encroach on the privacy of citizens. Writing in response to a complaint by campaign group Privacy International in April 2009, the information commissioner said: \"If consent [to upload images of private citizens] were required by law, then the producers of, say, Match of the Day, would have to gain the consent of all people attending televised football matches who might be caught on camera.\"", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Google Street View", "Mapping technologies", "Internet", "Privacy", "Media", "Digital media"], "title": "Google defends Germany Street View rollout"},{"date": "2010-12-10T07:00:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "When Der Spiegel appeared with its cover story on the cables on Monday 29 November, Germany had a new \"most wanted\" figure. Who, wondered the media, was the mysterious man who had been briefing the American embassy about the coalition negotiations in the immediate aftermath of the German general election in 2009?The man had been described only as a \"well placed source\" within the Free Democratic party (FDP), which had just become the junior partner in the new conservative German government. After several days of denying the significance of what came to be known as the \"FDP Spy Affair\", the party started to interview \"suspects\" and found the culprit, who, it turned out, had even supplied the Americans with copies from its negotiations folder: it was Helmut Metzner, head of the office of the party chairman and vice-chancellor Guido Westerwelle. The FDP removed him from Westerwelle's office, and this week his contract was cancelled completely.The position of US ambassador Phil Murphy is also precarious. Though the official line is that he will stay, privately, many politicians believe Murphy has to go. But Hans-Michael Goldmann, an FDP member of the Bundestag spoke out in public: \"Mr Murphy's behaviour is unseemly. A mission chief like him has to be recalled.\"And as for the papers, who didn't get access to the cables? In the S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung, Stefan Kornelius writes: \"Publishing the cables in the name of freedom is damaging. They destroy politics, they endanger people \u2026 and they could influence economies.\" Ulrich Greiner in the weekly Die Zeit, compared Julian Assange to Zorro the avenger, accusing Der Spiegel and the other publications which published the data of destroying trust.But Jakob Augstein, the son of the Spiegel founder Rudolf Augstein, wrote in his publication Der Freitag on 3 December: \"Any journalist whose first reaction to the Wikileaks data is to talk about national security, or even worse, the security of the western world, is not doing their job \u2014 and damaging press freedom to boot.\"", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "WikiLeaks", "Media", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines", "World news", "US news", "Germany", "Europe"], "title": "Wikileaks cables started a 'spy hunt' in Germany"},{"date": "2010-12-03T18:05:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has warned for the first time that her country could abandon the euro if she fails in her contested campaign to establish a new regime for the single currency, the Guardian has learned.At an EU summit in Brussels at the end of October that was dominated by the euro crisis and wrangling over whether to bail out Ireland, Merkel became embroiled in a row with the Greek prime minister, George Papandreou, according to participants at the event's Thursday dinner.Merkel's central aim, which she achieved, was to win agreement on re-opening the Lisbon treaty so a permanent system of bailout funding and investor losses could be established to deal with debt crises that have laid Greece and Ireland low and are threatening Portugal and Spain. The Germans also called for bailed-out countries to lose voting rights in EU councils.At the Brussels dinner on 28 October attended by 27 EU heads of government or state, the presidents of the European commission and council, and the head of the European Central Bank, witnesses said Papandreou accused Merkel of tabling proposals that were \"undemocratic\".\"If this is the sort of club the euro is becoming, perhaps Germany should leave,\" Merkel replied, according to non-German government figures at the dinner. It was the first time in the 10 months since the euro was plunged into a fight for its survival that Germany, the EU's economic powerhouse and the lynchpin of the euro's viability, had suggested that quitting the currency is an option, however unlikely.Merkel's spokesman Steffen Seibert would not comment on her remarks today. But the threat, he said, was \"not plausible. The chancellor sees the euro as the central European project, wants to secure and defend it and the government is not at all thinking of leaving it,\" he said. \"Germany is unconditionally and resolutely committed to the euro.\"Despite overwhelming opposition to her calls for depriving eurozone countries of their EU votes if they need to be bailed out, Merkel stuck to her guns on the issue at the summit, while conceding that the proposal would not feature at another summit in Brussels in two weeks' time.She argued that under the Lisbon treaty, which came into force a year ago, EU member states can have their voting rights suspended if deemed guilty of gross human rights violations. \"If this is possible for human rights infringements, the same degree of seriousness needs to be awarded to the euro,\" Merkel told the summit, according to the witnesses. She shelved the demand for suspension of voting, however, but won the argument on more limited change of the treaty to enable a \"permanent crisis mechanism\" to be established for the currency from mid-2013. This was rechristened the European stability Mechanism at last Sunday's emergency meeting of EU finance ministers in Brussels which decided on an \u20ac85bn (\u00a372bn) bailout for Ireland.Insisting on the loss of votes would have outraged most other EU governments. The Lisbon treaty would have needed renegotiation, opening a pandora's box of possible referendums in Ireland, the Czech Republic, and Britain, and placing immense strain on the EU's survival.EU finance ministers are to meet again early next week ahead of the summit on 16-17 December. The mood in Brussels is febrile and there have been rumours of another extraordinary summit or session of finance ministers this weekend.Officials said today there were \"no plans\" for a weekend session. But it is virtually taken for granted that Portugal will need to be bailed out and the \u20ac750bn rescue fund agreed in May may need to be increased as insurance against a Spanish emergency. Two EU ambassadors told the Guardian Portugal would need to be rescued very soon, despite repeated public statements to the contrary.The summit in two weeks' time, said a senior European diplomat, would be preoccupied with the treaty change needed for a permanent bailout mechanism to be established when the \u20ac750bn fund expires in mid-2013. \"The real question is, is there enough in the fund? If not, how much more do we need?\" the diplomat added.\"Portugal will need to be saved. The big issue is Spain,\" said another senior diplomat.Since the euro crisis erupted this year with Greece heading for sovereign debt default until it was bailed out in May, Merkel has repeatedly insisted that the primacy of politics over the financial markets has to be restored. That has yet to happen as Europe's leaders flail around in a mood of worsening \"panic and despair\", according to diplomats and officials in Brussels.The current phase in the crisis started when Merkel and the French president Nicolas Sarkozy met in mid-October and delivered an ultimatum to the other 25 EU leaders: the treaty would be reopened and a permanent rescue system created which would entail \"haircuts\" or losses for creditors and investors if eurozone countries need to be bailed out.Although this is to take place only from 2013, the markets took fright at the scale of potential bond losses, pushed Ireland's borrowing costs ruinously high, and forced last week's bailout of the Irish.Diplomats, analysts, and officials generally agree that Merkel is right to focus on \"moral hazard\", insisting that the markets and not only governments and taxpayers have to share the losses if a eurozone country implodes. But her timing could not have been worse, they add.", "tags": ["Angela Merkel", "Euro", "Germany", "Greece", "European Union", "Economics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Angela Merkel warned that Germany could abandon the euro"},{"date": "2010-12-02T21:29:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The US military has been charging its allies a 15% handling fee on hundreds of millions of dollars being raised internationally to build up the Afghan army. Germany has threatened to cancel contributions.According to a protest to the US from Germany's ambassador to Nato this year, Berlin raised questions about the fate of \u20ac50m (\u00a342m) it dispensed last year as the biggest contribution to a \"trust fund\" for the Afghan national army.In protests in Berlin, Brussels, and Washington last February the German government demanded to know what was happening to the money, why earmarked projects were not going ahead and why the US military was taking 15%.A cable to Washington from the US mission to Nato sought instructions on how to respond to the protests from Ulrich Brandenburg, the German ambassador to the military alliance.\"He said that money for earmarked projects had not been disbursed, resulting in delayed projects. He also said that the US army corps of engineers was charging a 15% administrative fee. He said that German parliamentarians were beginning to ask questions about how this money has been handled, adding that this could make it difficult for Berlin to provide additional contributions in the future.\"Originally set up in 2007 to finance Afghan army kit and infrastructure, the trust fund had risen to more than \u20ac123m by the start of this year, according to Nato figures, with another \u20ac151m pledged involving 20 countries.The German contribution was by far the biggest, more than double the second-placed \u20ac22m given by the Dutch, although Australia had pledged \u20ac150m.Ivo Daalder, the US ambassador to Nato, told Washington that the German complaint raised \"serious political concerns\".\"The appearance that the US is charging allies an excessive fee for the use of monies they have donated to the ANA [Afghan national army] trust fund may be difficult to explain away during a parliamentary debate. Brandenburg is probably correct in arguing that issues such as this could make it more difficult to encourage nations to donate to the trust fund.\"The US ambassador added that the German protest may be \"inaccurate\" since the 15% was probably a \"contingency\" rather than an \"administrative\" fee.The German complaint said its \u20ac50m was transferred to an account of Shape, Nato's planning headquarters in Belgium, in October last year, with \u20ac7m earmarked for three military schools and barracks in Kabul, Mazar-I-Sharif, and Feyzabad.\"As of today no project financing has occurred,\" the Germans said on 3 February. In violation of the agreement setting up the contribution the money had then gone to the US treasury \"including assignment of the US army corps of engineers and an administrative fee of 15%\" .Brandenburg said questions were being asked by German MPs and the Merkel government in Berlin was under pressure to explain what had happened with the money.\"Charging a 15% fee for managing and executing ANA TF, especially when applied to the funding of projects pursued by Germany, will inevitably attract heavy criticism by German audit bodies and parliamentary commissions.\"The German protest voiced \"concern about the fact that any further delay in allocating funds to the prioritised German projects and executing the remainder of funds donated by Germany must substantially impair prospects for any further German contributions to the ANA TF.\"", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Germany", "US foreign policy", "US military", "The US embassy cables", "US national security", "US news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany accuses US over 'missing' Afghan funds, WikiLeaks cables show"},{"date": "2010-11-28T00:06:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The last time I was in Germany was in 2004, to film a documentary series called Road to Berlin, which detailed the last 11 months of the war in Europe. Everywhere we went in Germany was to do with the war or the Nazis: Nordhausen, the underground V-weapons factory; the site of Hitler's bunker in Berlin; Bergen-Belsen. Eventually, fascinating as this stuff was, it was becoming obvious to me that there had to be so much more to the place than these British tropes and the events of what was, after all, a 15-year period in the country's history.It is often stated that Germany was the most cultured country in the world (so how on earth did Nazism happen?), but I think it's fair to say we aren't that sure of what that culture was. And anyway, once you begin to look into it, it becomes clear that there wasn't any such place until pretty recently. Strictly speaking, Germany didn't exist until unification in 1871 (and there have been several Gemanies since).So earlier this year we went to Germany to look beyond the lazy and comfortable, almost Pavlovian stereotypes we have of this country, and discovered one thing more than anything else. I say \"we\" because every time I have been to Germany (save one trip 18 years ago to go to K\u00f6ln Comedy Festival) I've been with a film crew and, as was the case this time, the crew is entirely tangled up with my impression of the place; my perception of Germany has been through the prism of the programme we're making.First, the place is enormous. While we were not supposed to be thinking about the Nazis, the sheer size of the country makes you scratch your head at the idea of Lebensraum (Hitler's expansionist policy into countries in the east). We spent many long hours on the autobahn, complete with terrifyingly fast drivers, and there were times when it seemed we'd never get to Berlin.What gradually revealed itself as we travelled around investigating German culture was the imaginative grip that the idea of Germany exerted over its writers, musicians and architects. But also how much the place looked outwards for inspiration.We started our journey in Heiligendamm, a Baltic beach and spa resort almost as far north as you can go in Germany. While this may well be the perfect holiday resort in the summer, we were there in February. There were ice floes out to sea, the wind was whipping in off wherever it is that's very cold that the wind whips in off, and it seemed like we were off to an entirely hare-brained start. But Heiligendamm is a Regency-era resort, the buildings reminiscent of Brighton, and it was the seaside getaway for European princes and playboys \u2013 the Tsar had his own place there. The elegance of its white buildings echoes northern Germany's sophisticated and wealthy past.Also in Heiligendamm we found the first hint of a stereotype coming true: rather than watching their deck chairs get blown away into the Baltic, the locals stayed put by the beach thanks to the local invention of the strandkorb \u2013 literally beach basket. These huge two-person wicker monsters are half sedan chair, half sofa \u2013 a sort of 4x4 deck chair. They smack of German engineering and efficiency (as we, the British, see them); but as the wind whipped in from wherever, they just seemed sensible. And again and again, as we ventured south, the stereotypes fell away, and as usual, really said more about us than them.Hamburg, as we all know, gave us the Beatles. But it was also where Brahms grew up, playing with his father in pubs and bars, some of which could be described as dodgy. Just don't tell the Brahms scholar that. Germany is well suited to a cultural whistlestop tour because everywhere you go there are arts centres, lovingly restored birthplaces, archives, bilingual (thank God) scholars. In Liverpool they knocked down the original Cavern Club (just saying).Brahms \u2013 when he wasn't oozing melancholy in the direction of Clara Schumann \u2013 was deeply concerned with the idea of what German music might be, and how to make it purely German. In a cultural setting such as this the idea seems almost benign, and he spent a large part of his career embroiled in a row with Wagner about this very issue (I wasn't much of a fan of Wagner's music, and the more you get to know about him the less you like him; a couple of stirring tunes aside, he comes across as a truly ghastly man). Whether Brahms achieved his aim of creating purely German music I don't know \u2013 it seems to me to be suffused in melancholy more than anything else, and looking at his life of romantic yearning maybe that's more him than German-ness.Berlin seems as unlike Hamburg as London is unlike Paris. When trying to re-establish Berlin after the Thirty Years' War (and so much of what has happened in Berlin happens in the aftermath of war) the Prussian Elector Frederick William embraced religious tolerance as a way to get people to come and live there. French Huguenots fleeing persecution in France came to the city. Further east than you think, Berlin very much has the sense of being somewhere in the middle of Europe and caught in the political currents that have flowed through it. The politics feel raw: there are the distinctly different buildings in the eastern part of the city, not to mention the outline of the Wall, the Holocaust memorial, the site of Hitler's bunker (which is in what can be best described as a dog-shit car park). It's almost impossible not to be bludgeoned by history in Berlin.Leaving the north the tone changes again \u2013 on our way to Munich we visited Dresden, which, rather than being the smoking ruin of my foolish imagination, has been restored to its historic glory. But it was Munich \u2013 nearer Italy than Hamburg \u2013 where another Germany revealed itself: Catholic, alpine, a place where the tragic story of \"Mad\" King Ludwig\u00a0II marks Bavaria's end and the beginning of the era of unification and the Kaiser.Ludwig became king in 1864 when he was 18, but also at the point when the crown's power had pretty much dwindled away. So he set about the business of being kingly, styling himself on Louis XIV, building palaces, riding around in gaudy golden sleighs with electric lights \u2013 in other words, being generally fabulous. He borrowed vast sums, sponsored Wagner (who saw in the young king a great fleecing opportunity) and gave money to people on the streets. His palaces at Linderhof and Neuschwanstein are spectacular (if a little over the top), built with all the latest mod cons, such as central heating. However, Ludwig's romantic pursuit of being the perfect German prince didn't sit well in the age of the Iron Chancellor, and he came unstuck \u2013 deposed, declared mad and dying in mysterious circumstances. Ludwig's end coincides with an end to romantic frivolity in German culture and the assimilation of the search for national identity into mainstream politics. And we all know where that ended up.The three weeks we spent in Germany were fascinating. It staggers me, for a country with a German royal family, how uninterested we are in the place. Over 21 days, and two films, we managed not to mention the war (well, I mentioned it once but I think I got away with it). It's a huge, diverse, energetic place, and one that I really, really must visit without a film crew and have time to take in.Al Murray's German Adventure will be shown on 1 December at 9pm on BBC 4", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Travel", "Cultural trips", "Television", "Culture", "Berlin holidays", "Hamburg holidays", "Munich holidays", "Dresden holidays", "Second world war", "Adolf Hitler", "Music", "Richard Wagner", "Holocaust", "Al Murray"], "title": "Travel in Germany: Don't mention the war\u2026"},{"date": "2010-11-22T16:15:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has announced plans to abolish compulsory military service by next summer, marking the most radical overhaul of the armed forces since its postwar founding and a major change to German society.Under the reforms, which will transform the Bundeswehr into a fully professional defence force by July 2011, the size of the existing military and its inefficient bureaucratic apparatus will be considerably reduced as part of a cost-cutting exercise aimed at shaving about \u20ac8bn (\u00a36.8bn) from the defence spending budget.Speaking on the sidelines of a Dresden conference about the status of the military defence minister Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg, called the decision \"responsible and right\".The changes follow recommendations by military experts who have called the armed forces \"ineffectual\" and \"in desperate need of modernisation\".Guttenberg said he envisaged the launch of a voluntary programme open to both men and women who will be able to serve in the military for up to 23 months, in order to appease the large number of Germans who are opposed to the changes to a core policy of postwar Germany, considered so sacred it is cemented in the constitution. But he stressed that the voluntary sector would not help Germany's ability to engage in missions abroad.The military was founded in 1955, and conscription \u2013 introduced two years later \u2013 has been seen as a necessary means to ensure the defence forces maintain a close relationship to civil society in order to prevent a repeat of the way in which the Nazi party was able to manipulate professional soldiers in the 1930s. But experts say it has prevented the military's modernisation.Chancellor Angela Merkel today appealed to Germany's generals to seize the chance to become \"symbols of the willingness to change\" and to set an example for the rest of the nation.\"You can make a really significant contribution to a modern and strong Germany,\" she said at the Dresden conference.Earlier this autumn her Christian Democratic Union and its sister party, the Christian Social Union (CSU) voted in favour of abolishing national service at their annual party conferences, removing the last major political obstacle to broad defence reforms.The CDU also voted in favour of transforming the Germany military or Bundeswehr into a fully professional army, which military strategists have long argued was necessary to cope with modern demands. Most crucially they said it would increase its expeditionary capacity.The size of the military is to be reduced from 240,000 to 163,500 soldiers, but is expected to increase the number of troops capable of being deployed on foreign missions from the current 7,000 to 14,000.The decision is not only a groundbreaking one for the country's military but also poses a major challenge for the social welfare system. Until now thousands of young men from the age of 18, who either due to their pacifist views or for health reasons were excluded from national service duty, were drafted into posts at care homes and hospitals instead, where they were considered a valuable source of cheap labour.Provisions will now have to be made to plug a shortfall of around 90,000 such workers. The government has tried to play down the changes saying it will retain a programme for young people to volunteer for social work, arguing that the demand to take up such posts for post-school and pre-university youngsters will still exist even when national service is scrapped.", "tags": ["Germany", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany to abolish compulsory military service"},{"date": "2010-10-13T15:16:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Google has defended the rollout of its Street View mapping service in Germany, where it is the subject of a nationwide debate about online privacy, ahead of a Friday deadline for people wanting to opt out of being pictured on the site.Lena Wagner, a spokeswoman for Google in Germany, said that although the company takes privacy \"very seriously\", many of the fears about Street View are based on \"misinformation\".Google's announcement that it would launch its Street View product in 20 cities across Germany prompted calls for stricter data protection regulation and high-level meetings between the company and government officials.Google in turn made concessions to its planned rollout, allowing members of the public to opt out of being photographed on the service by 15 October.The Czech Republic last month banned Google from expanding its panoramic mapping service, saying the product \"disproportionately invades citizens' privacy\".In an interview with German broadcaster Deutsche Welle published on Wednesday, Wagner said: \"No two countries are ever the same and we work with the authorities in every country to address concerns they may have about Street View. All images in our Street View product abide by the local laws and cultural norms of the country they are taken in and Street View only features imagery taken on public property.\"Wagner said Google would publish the number of people who have chosen to opt out of the service when it has the information, but said the company has no plans to make the opt-out concession available in other countries.\"This imagery is no different from what any person can readily capture or see walking down the street themselves,\" she said. \"Imagery of this kind is available in a wide variety of formats for cities all around the world and on various sites on the web.\"[...] Many fears are based on misinformation, such as [the belief that] Street View imagery is [in] real-time \u2013 in fact it is anywhere between a few months to up to two years old at the time a given area is introduced. We take privacy protections very seriously and that's why we have developed state-of-the-art operational and technological controls for Street View, including the automatic blurring of faces and licence plates.\"Google has confirmed it will delete data such as addresses and names of people opting out of Street View in Germany within a period agreed upon by the country's data protection authority.Markus Beckedahl, editor of the influential Germany-based technology website Netzpolitik, separately told Deutsche Welle that the nationwide debate over Google Street View and privacy marked a watershed moment in German history.\"I don't think Google Street View is a debate about nothing,\" Beckedahl commented. \"But it sounds a bit crazy because Google Street View isn't the biggest privacy problem that we have in Germany. It's the first privacy debate where a lot of people can feel something about it.\"[...] Google Street View [is] something where my parents have an opinion about it, and maybe your parents do, too. This is a new level in that debate.\"The UK's information commissioner has ruled that the Google Street View service does not encroach on the privacy of citizens. Writing in response to a complaint by campaign group Privacy International in April 2009, the information commissioner said: \"If consent [to upload images of private citizens] were required by law, then the producers of, say, Match of the Day, would have to gain the consent of all people attending televised football matches who might be caught on camera.\"", "tags": ["Google", "Technology", "Google Street View", "Mapping technologies", "Internet", "Privacy", "Media", "Digital media"], "title": "Google defends Germany Street View rollout"},{"date": "2010-12-10T07:00:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "When Der Spiegel appeared with its cover story on the cables on Monday 29 November, Germany had a new \"most wanted\" figure. Who, wondered the media, was the mysterious man who had been briefing the American embassy about the coalition negotiations in the immediate aftermath of the German general election in 2009?The man had been described only as a \"well placed source\" within the Free Democratic party (FDP), which had just become the junior partner in the new conservative German government. After several days of denying the significance of what came to be known as the \"FDP Spy Affair\", the party started to interview \"suspects\" and found the culprit, who, it turned out, had even supplied the Americans with copies from its negotiations folder: it was Helmut Metzner, head of the office of the party chairman and vice-chancellor Guido Westerwelle. The FDP removed him from Westerwelle's office, and this week his contract was cancelled completely.The position of US ambassador Phil Murphy is also precarious. Though the official line is that he will stay, privately, many politicians believe Murphy has to go. But Hans-Michael Goldmann, an FDP member of the Bundestag spoke out in public: \"Mr Murphy's behaviour is unseemly. A mission chief like him has to be recalled.\"And as for the papers, who didn't get access to the cables? In the S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung, Stefan Kornelius writes: \"Publishing the cables in the name of freedom is damaging. They destroy politics, they endanger people \u2026 and they could influence economies.\" Ulrich Greiner in the weekly Die Zeit, compared Julian Assange to Zorro the avenger, accusing Der Spiegel and the other publications which published the data of destroying trust.But Jakob Augstein, the son of the Spiegel founder Rudolf Augstein, wrote in his publication Der Freitag on 3 December: \"Any journalist whose first reaction to the Wikileaks data is to talk about national security, or even worse, the security of the western world, is not doing their job \u2014 and damaging press freedom to boot.\"", "tags": ["The US embassy cables", "WikiLeaks", "Media", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines", "World news", "US news", "Germany", "Europe"], "title": "Wikileaks cables started a 'spy hunt' in Germany"},{"date": "2010-12-03T18:05:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has warned for the first time that her country could abandon the euro if she fails in her contested campaign to establish a new regime for the single currency, the Guardian has learned.At an EU summit in Brussels at the end of October that was dominated by the euro crisis and wrangling over whether to bail out Ireland, Merkel became embroiled in a row with the Greek prime minister, George Papandreou, according to participants at the event's Thursday dinner.Merkel's central aim, which she achieved, was to win agreement on re-opening the Lisbon treaty so a permanent system of bailout funding and investor losses could be established to deal with debt crises that have laid Greece and Ireland low and are threatening Portugal and Spain. The Germans also called for bailed-out countries to lose voting rights in EU councils.At the Brussels dinner on 28 October attended by 27 EU heads of government or state, the presidents of the European commission and council, and the head of the European Central Bank, witnesses said Papandreou accused Merkel of tabling proposals that were \"undemocratic\".\"If this is the sort of club the euro is becoming, perhaps Germany should leave,\" Merkel replied, according to non-German government figures at the dinner. It was the first time in the 10 months since the euro was plunged into a fight for its survival that Germany, the EU's economic powerhouse and the lynchpin of the euro's viability, had suggested that quitting the currency is an option, however unlikely.Merkel's spokesman Steffen Seibert would not comment on her remarks today. But the threat, he said, was \"not plausible. The chancellor sees the euro as the central European project, wants to secure and defend it and the government is not at all thinking of leaving it,\" he said. \"Germany is unconditionally and resolutely committed to the euro.\"Despite overwhelming opposition to her calls for depriving eurozone countries of their EU votes if they need to be bailed out, Merkel stuck to her guns on the issue at the summit, while conceding that the proposal would not feature at another summit in Brussels in two weeks' time.She argued that under the Lisbon treaty, which came into force a year ago, EU member states can have their voting rights suspended if deemed guilty of gross human rights violations. \"If this is possible for human rights infringements, the same degree of seriousness needs to be awarded to the euro,\" Merkel told the summit, according to the witnesses. She shelved the demand for suspension of voting, however, but won the argument on more limited change of the treaty to enable a \"permanent crisis mechanism\" to be established for the currency from mid-2013. This was rechristened the European stability Mechanism at last Sunday's emergency meeting of EU finance ministers in Brussels which decided on an \u20ac85bn (\u00a372bn) bailout for Ireland.Insisting on the loss of votes would have outraged most other EU governments. The Lisbon treaty would have needed renegotiation, opening a pandora's box of possible referendums in Ireland, the Czech Republic, and Britain, and placing immense strain on the EU's survival.EU finance ministers are to meet again early next week ahead of the summit on 16-17 December. The mood in Brussels is febrile and there have been rumours of another extraordinary summit or session of finance ministers this weekend.Officials said today there were \"no plans\" for a weekend session. But it is virtually taken for granted that Portugal will need to be bailed out and the \u20ac750bn rescue fund agreed in May may need to be increased as insurance against a Spanish emergency. Two EU ambassadors told the Guardian Portugal would need to be rescued very soon, despite repeated public statements to the contrary.The summit in two weeks' time, said a senior European diplomat, would be preoccupied with the treaty change needed for a permanent bailout mechanism to be established when the \u20ac750bn fund expires in mid-2013. \"The real question is, is there enough in the fund? If not, how much more do we need?\" the diplomat added.\"Portugal will need to be saved. The big issue is Spain,\" said another senior diplomat.Since the euro crisis erupted this year with Greece heading for sovereign debt default until it was bailed out in May, Merkel has repeatedly insisted that the primacy of politics over the financial markets has to be restored. That has yet to happen as Europe's leaders flail around in a mood of worsening \"panic and despair\", according to diplomats and officials in Brussels.The current phase in the crisis started when Merkel and the French president Nicolas Sarkozy met in mid-October and delivered an ultimatum to the other 25 EU leaders: the treaty would be reopened and a permanent rescue system created which would entail \"haircuts\" or losses for creditors and investors if eurozone countries need to be bailed out.Although this is to take place only from 2013, the markets took fright at the scale of potential bond losses, pushed Ireland's borrowing costs ruinously high, and forced last week's bailout of the Irish.Diplomats, analysts, and officials generally agree that Merkel is right to focus on \"moral hazard\", insisting that the markets and not only governments and taxpayers have to share the losses if a eurozone country implodes. But her timing could not have been worse, they add.", "tags": ["Angela Merkel", "Euro", "Germany", "Greece", "European Union", "Economics", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Angela Merkel warned that Germany could abandon the euro"},{"date": "2010-12-02T21:29:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The US military has been charging its allies a 15% handling fee on hundreds of millions of dollars being raised internationally to build up the Afghan army. Germany has threatened to cancel contributions.According to a protest to the US from Germany's ambassador to Nato this year, Berlin raised questions about the fate of \u20ac50m (\u00a342m) it dispensed last year as the biggest contribution to a \"trust fund\" for the Afghan national army.In protests in Berlin, Brussels, and Washington last February the German government demanded to know what was happening to the money, why earmarked projects were not going ahead and why the US military was taking 15%.A cable to Washington from the US mission to Nato sought instructions on how to respond to the protests from Ulrich Brandenburg, the German ambassador to the military alliance.\"He said that money for earmarked projects had not been disbursed, resulting in delayed projects. He also said that the US army corps of engineers was charging a 15% administrative fee. He said that German parliamentarians were beginning to ask questions about how this money has been handled, adding that this could make it difficult for Berlin to provide additional contributions in the future.\"Originally set up in 2007 to finance Afghan army kit and infrastructure, the trust fund had risen to more than \u20ac123m by the start of this year, according to Nato figures, with another \u20ac151m pledged involving 20 countries.The German contribution was by far the biggest, more than double the second-placed \u20ac22m given by the Dutch, although Australia had pledged \u20ac150m.Ivo Daalder, the US ambassador to Nato, told Washington that the German complaint raised \"serious political concerns\".\"The appearance that the US is charging allies an excessive fee for the use of monies they have donated to the ANA [Afghan national army] trust fund may be difficult to explain away during a parliamentary debate. Brandenburg is probably correct in arguing that issues such as this could make it more difficult to encourage nations to donate to the trust fund.\"The US ambassador added that the German protest may be \"inaccurate\" since the 15% was probably a \"contingency\" rather than an \"administrative\" fee.The German complaint said its \u20ac50m was transferred to an account of Shape, Nato's planning headquarters in Belgium, in October last year, with \u20ac7m earmarked for three military schools and barracks in Kabul, Mazar-I-Sharif, and Feyzabad.\"As of today no project financing has occurred,\" the Germans said on 3 February. In violation of the agreement setting up the contribution the money had then gone to the US treasury \"including assignment of the US army corps of engineers and an administrative fee of 15%\" .Brandenburg said questions were being asked by German MPs and the Merkel government in Berlin was under pressure to explain what had happened with the money.\"Charging a 15% fee for managing and executing ANA TF, especially when applied to the funding of projects pursued by Germany, will inevitably attract heavy criticism by German audit bodies and parliamentary commissions.\"The German protest voiced \"concern about the fact that any further delay in allocating funds to the prioritised German projects and executing the remainder of funds donated by Germany must substantially impair prospects for any further German contributions to the ANA TF.\"", "tags": ["Afghanistan", "Germany", "US foreign policy", "US military", "The US embassy cables", "US national security", "US news", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany accuses US over 'missing' Afghan funds, WikiLeaks cables show"},{"date": "2010-11-29T16:25:42Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Which country leads Europe in contemporary art? Britain, of course, you answer. Look at all those people flocking to Tate Modern. Wrong. The best artists in Europe today are German. The towering geniuses Gerhard Richter and Anselm Kiefer  radically contrast in how they conceive art yet both, from their divergent perspectives, one super-cool, the other romantic, achieve a profundity that makes most British art look trite.But to widen the question \u2013 which was the greatest European art nation of the 20th century? France? Wrong again. It was Germany. Only Germany has been at the forefront of modern art from the early 20th century right up until today. Paris declined as a creative capital after 1939, but German artists have been revolutionary for 100 years without missing a beat. The passion of expressionist painting and cinema, the fragmentation grenades of Dada, the idealism of the Bauhaus and realism of Neue Sachlichkeit \u2013 these German art movements of the early 20th century did not give way, as in France, to cultural decline but instead burned on into the 1960s and 70s, when Joseph Beuys showed that art can still reach into myth and memory to renew the world. Beuys and his legacy \u2013 continued by Kiefer, rejected by Richter \u2013 coincided with a great renewal of German cinema: for one aspect of the German genius is that fine art and film have merged there since the days of Murnau.And a final question \u2013 who created the Renaissance? Well, Italy did, but Germany was the first northern country to adapt Renaissance ideas to its own culture, and the only land north of the Alps to produce one of the masters of the High Renaissance \u2013 the towering figure of Albrecht D\u00fcrer, whose genius is celebrated in a timely new book by Norbert Wolf. It was D\u00fcrer whose readiness to embrace the new technology of the printing press \u2013 his prints are as great as his paintings, or greater \u2013 set the modernising, forward-looking, and productive tone of German art right down to today, when new art flourishes in a Berlin that is the worthy heir to the cosmopolis portrayed in Kirchner's painting Potsdamer Platz. Anyone who spends a couple of days in Berlin's museums and galleries will come to the conclusion that the Germans really are better at art.", "tags": ["Art", "Art and design", "Culture", "Gerhard Richter", "Joseph Beuys", "Germany", "FW Murnau", "Film", "World cinema", "Europe"], "title": "Auf wiedersehen Britart: Germany wins when it comes to art | Jonathan Jones"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:05:06Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Leipzig is fast catching Berlin as a setting for innovative arts, particularly the city's Baumwollspinnerei (spinnerei.de), a former factory that now hosts dozens of eclectic galleries and artists' studios. The Spinnerei is the venue for British artist Jim Whiting's Bimbotown Parties (bimbotown.de, next one 2 April), a mix of music, theatre and lots of crazy stuff by artists from all over Europe. Tickets are sought after but some can usually be bought on the door. The cafe at the Galerie f\u00fcr Zeitgen\u00f6ssische Kunst (gfzk.de) is redesigned every two years by artists and called Kafic in its current version after a makeover by artist-architects Apolonija Sustersic and Meike Schalk. Stay in the Meisterzimmer, a room of 116m\u00b2 right in the middle of the Spinnerei (meisterzimmer.de, \u20ac80 for two, \u20ac160 for up to six people).Beer is so much a part of the fabric of life in Germany that it even has a role to play in monastic existence. The best example is the fabulous Weltenburg Benedictine monastery (klosterschenke-weltenburg.de), dramatically sited on a surging bend in the Danube near Regensburg. Here the monks run what is purported to be the oldest brewery in the world, and their dark beer is potent stuff. Visitors sit at tables in the monastery courtyard, quaffing and eating under spreading chestnut trees, and there's always the option of confession, either before or after, in the monastery's bewilderingly over-decorated rococo church.German actress Jessica Schwarz, a 33-year-old former model who is now among the country's acting elite, has somehow found time to convert an old listed building in her home town of Michelstadt into a boutique hotel. Die Tr\u00e4umerei's 17th-century building houses just four chic and individually designed rooms, as well as a cafe (die-traeumerei.com). Michelstadt itself is in the Odenwald forest, and ideally placed for Heidelberg, Germany's stunning university town, as well as being only 45 minutes from Frankfurt airport. From \u20ac135 for a double room.The largest fruit orchard in northern Europe is in the outskirts of Hamburg, and reachable through the city's S-Bahn system. And yet Altes Land, as the name suggests, is still a deeply traditional place, and it is particularly spectacular at blossom time (late April/early May, tourismus-altesland.de). The landscape is carefully preserved and comes complete with some of the finest half-timbered farmhouses in north Germany. Start exploring from the ancient port town of Stade, the terminus of S-Bahn line 3.Hay hotels are a peculiarly German institution, and an excellent old-fashioned adventure. They're at their best in the giant brick-built farmhouses of northern Germany, where the farmer and his stock all used to sleep under one roof. Many of those farms now open their hay barns (with attached bathroom facilities) to cyclists, who weave unhurriedly towards them across Niedersachsen's tapestry of dykes, marshland and heath (niedersachsen-tourism.de/en). This is ideal family cycling country, with big skies, dedicated cycle tracks, farmyard animals galore and minimal overnight costs, which include an immense farmhouse breakfast.Germany may not be a first-choice destination for ardent skiers, but you can't fault the ambition, and the accessibility, of one of its (almost unknown) ski regions. Sauerland, a hilly area east of D\u00fcsseldorf, describes itself as the \"largest snow paradise north of the Alps\", despite its comparatively low peaks and patchy snowfall (wintersport-arena.de). There are more than 120 ski lifts and a lively apr\u00e8s-ski, and it is good for beginners and intermediates. There's lots of entertainment for no-snow days, such as riding the Taxi-Bob, a bobsleigh run that can reach speeds of 80mph.The Mecklenburg lake district (mecklenburg-lakes.com) is a region of a thousand lakes and watercourses about 70km north of Berlin, and is pillowed in soft woodland and rolling agricultural land. These living waterways have long been a mecca for German boating holidays, although their appeal is more akin to the seductiveness of the Norfolk Broads than the drama of the UK's Lake District. Homemade boathouses line the shores, and youngsters still set off on motorised rafts for watery adventures, like something out of Huckleberry Finn. You can rent sophisticated cabin cruisers here too.The city's tradition as a hub for art dates back hundreds of years. In the 20th century, Joseph Beuys set up shop at the prestigious Kunstakademie (Academy of Arts) and the Becher School photography movement gave birth to household names such as Andreas Gursky and Candida H\u00f6fer. The Kunst Palast (smkp.de) and NRW Forum (nrw-forum.de) are key locations for contemporary exhibitions. The latter is currently showing Zeitgeist and Glamour, with works by David Bailey, Diane Arbus and Andy Warhol.The Sorbs are Germany's most enduring ethnic minority, and they've lived in a crescent of land in modern Brandenburg since the sixth century. Here, the Spreewald (spreewald.de) is a watery mosaic of channels, meadows, fields and forests fed by the river Spree, and easily accessible from Berlin. Key towns are L\u00fcbben and Lehde, where a lot of travel (including tours) is still by boat. Gherkins are a big industry for Sorb farmers, and every April the region hosts a unique Spreewald marathon, which involves running, cycling, walking, and paddling. The starting command? \"Auf die Gurke, fertig, los\" (gherkin, steady, go!) \u2013 not something you're likely to hear at the 2012 Olympics.\"Bankfurt\" is not all about gleaming capitalism, for Frankfurt's Main river undergoes a bank-side transformation in summertime to become a large outdoor bar. Favourites such as the Maincaf\u00e9, with its deckchairs and beach vibe, (between Untermainbr\u00fccke und Holbeinsteg) attract a relaxed crowd. Hafenbar (near Alte Br\u00fccke on the north bank of the river) is the beach bar outpost of the Stereobar club, where visitors can bring their own food. And the city's famous King Kamehameha gets down to the river as well in summer with its King Kamehameha Beach Club (king-kamehameha.de).Budapest doesn't have a monopoly on art nouveau baths. M\u00fcller'sches Volksbad, the \"people's spa\" (swm.de/privatkunden/m-baeder) next to Munich's Isar river is a gem, its murals and stucco the polar opposite of today's sleek and stylish spa designs. Opened in Rosenheimer Strasse in 1901, it is named after engineer (and benefactor) Karl M\u00fcller and it has been kept in its original condition. There are two pools, a steam bath and saunas. Early swimmers (doors open at 7.30am) get a discount and pay only \u20ac2.60 instead of \u20ac3.80.When M\u00fcnchner speak affectionately of Die Glocke, they are referring to an area of trendy shops, easy-going cafes and bars in the Glockenbachviertel and G\u00e4rtnerplatzviertel districts. It's a far cry from pricy Maximilianstrasse, the city's Gucci and Prada mile. Try Westerm\u00fchlstrasse and Klenzestrasse for fashion, as well as Eisenbl\u00e4tter-Triska (Hans-Sachs-Strasse 13, eisenblaetter-triska.de) for quirky hat creations, or boutique Kleider machen Leute (Reichenbachstrasse 10, kleidermachenleute-shop.de) for clothes and style advice. There's plenty of nightlife too, from relaxed retro at Trachtenvogl (Reichenbachstrasse 47, trachtenvogl.de) to easy listening, funk, electro, house and soul at Ksar Barclub (M\u00fcllerstrasse 31, ksar-barclub.de). The area is also the centre of Munich's gay community with clubs and bars mainly between Thalkirchnerstrasse and Fraunhoferstrasse.Paddle steamers were once the monarchs of the European river systems, but these days they are rare. Except, of course, if you're in Dresden, that reconstructed jewel of an imperial city, because a whole fleet of old beauties operates from this Florence of the Elbe (saechsische-dampfschiffahrt.de). Decks quivering, funnels billowing, paddles kiss-kissing the water, they thump upriver to the castle at Pillnitz (schloesser-dresden.de), and then onwards into mountainous Saxon Switzerland. From their final destination at Bad Schandau, it is only 45 minutes back to Dresden by train.Man has planted his mucky feet firmly into most corners of this planet, but the sea bed has so far been mainly off-limits. Not so in the vast intertidal zones of the Wadden Sea, those enormous tidal flats on the north coast of Germany, where the ebb tide often retreats as far as 10km. Walking out across these mostly sandy flats is called Wattwandern (wattwandern.de), but there's mud here too, of a quality that spa addicts would pay good money for. On certain tides you can walk right out to the Frisian islands, and then catch a ferry back on the returning tide. Go with a guide.X marks the spot where the AlpspiX viewing platform (zugspitze.de/en/summer/berg/garmisch-classic/alpspix.htm) hangs out over a thousand-metre void in the lee of the 2,962-metre Zugspitze, Germany's highest mountain, in southern Bavaria. Two metal walkways cross arms as they reach out into giddy nothingness, and you need to keep your nerve if you intend to walk the full 42 feet to the end of each, especially when it wobbles. The AlpspiX is reached via the Alpspitze cable car from the ski resort of Garmisch-Partenkirchen, \u20ac22 return.Everyone knows Neuschwanstein, the fairytale Bavarian Schloss that inspired Disneyland's Sleeping Beauty Castle, but millions queue for its (perfunctory) tour every year. Far better to take a hike up Schachen to the King's House (schloesser.bayern.de, admission \u20ac4.50) an extraordinary mountain-top retreat also built by castle-obsessed King Ludwig II of Bavaria, and have its bizarre Turkish-themed salon to yourself. It's a four-hour walk up from the car park at Elmau, near Garmisch-Partenkirchen, and you can overnight for as little as \u20ac10 in the next door Schachenhaus (schachenhaus.de), which also serves hot food and cold beer.We may not have heard of Baiersbronn here in the UK, but this small rural community in the Black Forest is a gourmet valley of international repute. Its nine small villages can boast seven Michelin stars, divided between three chefs. They are Harald Wohlfahrt (Schwarzwaldstube/3 stars, traube-tonbach.de), Claus-Peter Lumpp (Restaurant Bareiss/3 stars, bareiss.com) and J\u00f6rg Sackmann (Schlossberg/1 star, hotel-sackmann.de). If you don't feel like joining the queue for a reservation, Baiersbronn is also a prime hiking destination and ramblers can roam the forests on walks guided by a local chef, who'll reveal nature at its tastiest (baiersbronn.de).The Palatinate region, up against the border with France, is where Germany gets super-excited about food and wine. The German Wine Route runs here, with lots of tastings and good little restaurants. In March, the Mandelbl\u00fcte (almond blossom) makes the hills blush. The Ketschauer Hof (from \u20ac220 for a double room, ketschauer-hof.com) in Deidesheim is a stylish conversion of a winemaker's old manor house. In nearby Speyer, more than 1,500 years old and home of the Unesco-recognised Speyerer Dom (imperial cathedral), visitors can explore the city's rich history on a culinary walking tour (\u20ac52 per person, fourth Friday of every month, speyer.de), stopping off at different restaurants for each course of their three-course meal.Put your pedal to the metal on Germany's original grand prix track, the N\u00fcrburgring (nurburgring.de), a looping circuit through the forested Eifel hills. The 14-mile Nordschleife includes 73 right-angle bends and was used as a Formula One circuit until the cars simply became too fast for it. When Niki Lauda was badly injured in 1976 the drivers refused to compete there again, with Jackie Stewart christening it \"green hell\". These days you can drive around it yourself in your own car and see whether you agree, but just don't get distracted by the scenery.The Oktoberfest has lots of siblings all over the country, and it doesn't always have to be about beer. A reliable way to get pleasantly beschwipst (tipsy \u2013 good word!) is by mixing fruit and alcohol. German summertime favourite Erdbeerbowle (a mix of white wine, sparkling wine and strawberries) is a great beschwipst-er and is best enjoyed on a warm evening at the Wilhelmstrassenfest street festival in elegant spa town Wiesbaden (this year from 2-4 June, wiesbaden.de). If you must have beer, the Bergkirchweih festival in Erlangen (9-20 June, erlangen.de), dates back to the 18th century. And Bamberg, beer city par excellence, hosts the Sandkerwa (25-29 August, bamberg.info), when the output of the city's own eight breweries is supplemented by the arrival of outside beer makers, who set up stalls in the old city.The UK and Germany share a love of gardens. Schleswig-Holstein's \"Garden trails between the seas\" (the North Sea and the Baltic Sea) is a selection of nine routes that can be covered by bike (best, it's flat here!) or car (sh-tourismus.de/en/garden-trails). Each route takes in 10 different gardens and parks plus stopovers in tree nurseries or garden cafes. Apart from discovering northern German garden culture, it's a fantastic way to explore a region that is usually off the radar for Brits.Andrew Eames and Barbara Geier are editors of germanyiswunderbar.com", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Munich holidays", "Frankfurt holidays", "Dresden holidays", "Boating holidays", "Cultural trips", "Food and drink", "Short breaks", "City breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Wunderbar! The best of Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:05:06Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Leipzig is fast catching Berlin as a setting for innovative arts, particularly the city's Baumwollspinnerei (spinnerei.de), a former factory that now hosts dozens of eclectic galleries and artists' studios. The Spinnerei is the venue for British artist Jim Whiting's Bimbotown Parties (bimbotown.de, next one 2 April), a mix of music, theatre and lots of crazy stuff by artists from all over Europe. Tickets are sought after but some can usually be bought on the door. The cafe at the Galerie f\u00fcr Zeitgen\u00f6ssische Kunst (gfzk.de) is redesigned every two years by artists and called Kafic in its current version after a makeover by artist-architects Apolonija Sustersic and Meike Schalk. Stay in the Meisterzimmer, a room of 116m\u00b2 right in the middle of the Spinnerei (meisterzimmer.de, \u20ac80 for two, \u20ac160 for up to six people).Beer is so much a part of the fabric of life in Germany that it even has a role to play in monastic existence. The best example is the fabulous Weltenburg Benedictine monastery (klosterschenke-weltenburg.de), dramatically sited on a surging bend in the Danube near Regensburg. Here the monks run what is purported to be the oldest brewery in the world, and their dark beer is potent stuff. Visitors sit at tables in the monastery courtyard, quaffing and eating under spreading chestnut trees, and there's always the option of confession, either before or after, in the monastery's bewilderingly over-decorated rococo church.German actress Jessica Schwarz, a 33-year-old former model who is now among the country's acting elite, has somehow found time to convert an old listed building in her home town of Michelstadt into a boutique hotel. Die Tr\u00e4umerei's 17th-century building houses just four chic and individually designed rooms, as well as a cafe (die-traeumerei.com). Michelstadt itself is in the Odenwald forest, and ideally placed for Heidelberg, Germany's stunning university town, as well as being only 45 minutes from Frankfurt airport. From \u20ac135 for a double room.The largest fruit orchard in northern Europe is in the outskirts of Hamburg, and reachable through the city's S-Bahn system. And yet Altes Land, as the name suggests, is still a deeply traditional place, and it is particularly spectacular at blossom time (late April/early May, tourismus-altesland.de). The landscape is carefully preserved and comes complete with some of the finest half-timbered farmhouses in north Germany. Start exploring from the ancient port town of Stade, the terminus of S-Bahn line 3.Hay hotels are a peculiarly German institution, and an excellent old-fashioned adventure. They're at their best in the giant brick-built farmhouses of northern Germany, where the farmer and his stock all used to sleep under one roof. Many of those farms now open their hay barns (with attached bathroom facilities) to cyclists, who weave unhurriedly towards them across Niedersachsen's tapestry of dykes, marshland and heath (niedersachsen-tourism.de/en). This is ideal family cycling country, with big skies, dedicated cycle tracks, farmyard animals galore and minimal overnight costs, which include an immense farmhouse breakfast.Germany may not be a first-choice destination for ardent skiers, but you can't fault the ambition, and the accessibility, of one of its (almost unknown) ski regions. Sauerland, a hilly area east of D\u00fcsseldorf, describes itself as the \"largest snow paradise north of the Alps\", despite its comparatively low peaks and patchy snowfall (wintersport-arena.de). There are more than 120 ski lifts and a lively apr\u00e8s-ski, and it is good for beginners and intermediates. There's lots of entertainment for no-snow days, such as riding the Taxi-Bob, a bobsleigh run that can reach speeds of 80mph.The Mecklenburg lake district (mecklenburg-lakes.com) is a region of a thousand lakes and watercourses about 70km north of Berlin, and is pillowed in soft woodland and rolling agricultural land. These living waterways have long been a mecca for German boating holidays, although their appeal is more akin to the seductiveness of the Norfolk Broads than the drama of the UK's Lake District. Homemade boathouses line the shores, and youngsters still set off on motorised rafts for watery adventures, like something out of Huckleberry Finn. You can rent sophisticated cabin cruisers here too.The city's tradition as a hub for art dates back hundreds of years. In the 20th century, Joseph Beuys set up shop at the prestigious Kunstakademie (Academy of Arts) and the Becher School photography movement gave birth to household names such as Andreas Gursky and Candida H\u00f6fer. The Kunst Palast (smkp.de) and NRW Forum (nrw-forum.de) are key locations for contemporary exhibitions. The latter is currently showing Zeitgeist and Glamour, with works by David Bailey, Diane Arbus and Andy Warhol.The Sorbs are Germany's most enduring ethnic minority, and they've lived in a crescent of land in modern Brandenburg since the sixth century. Here, the Spreewald (spreewald.de) is a watery mosaic of channels, meadows, fields and forests fed by the river Spree, and easily accessible from Berlin. Key towns are L\u00fcbben and Lehde, where a lot of travel (including tours) is still by boat. Gherkins are a big industry for Sorb farmers, and every April the region hosts a unique Spreewald marathon, which involves running, cycling, walking, and paddling. The starting command? \"Auf die Gurke, fertig, los\" (gherkin, steady, go!) \u2013 not something you're likely to hear at the 2012 Olympics.\"Bankfurt\" is not all about gleaming capitalism, for Frankfurt's Main river undergoes a bank-side transformation in summertime to become a large outdoor bar. Favourites such as the Maincaf\u00e9, with its deckchairs and beach vibe, (between Untermainbr\u00fccke und Holbeinsteg) attract a relaxed crowd. Hafenbar (near Alte Br\u00fccke on the north bank of the river) is the beach bar outpost of the Stereobar club, where visitors can bring their own food. And the city's famous King Kamehameha gets down to the river as well in summer with its King Kamehameha Beach Club (king-kamehameha.de).Budapest doesn't have a monopoly on art nouveau baths. M\u00fcller'sches Volksbad, the \"people's spa\" (swm.de/privatkunden/m-baeder) next to Munich's Isar river is a gem, its murals and stucco the polar opposite of today's sleek and stylish spa designs. Opened in Rosenheimer Strasse in 1901, it is named after engineer (and benefactor) Karl M\u00fcller and it has been kept in its original condition. There are two pools, a steam bath and saunas. Early swimmers (doors open at 7.30am) get a discount and pay only \u20ac2.60 instead of \u20ac3.80.When M\u00fcnchner speak affectionately of Die Glocke, they are referring to an area of trendy shops, easy-going cafes and bars in the Glockenbachviertel and G\u00e4rtnerplatzviertel districts. It's a far cry from pricy Maximilianstrasse, the city's Gucci and Prada mile. Try Westerm\u00fchlstrasse and Klenzestrasse for fashion, as well as Eisenbl\u00e4tter-Triska (Hans-Sachs-Strasse 13, eisenblaetter-triska.de) for quirky hat creations, or boutique Kleider machen Leute (Reichenbachstrasse 10, kleidermachenleute-shop.de) for clothes and style advice. There's plenty of nightlife too, from relaxed retro at Trachtenvogl (Reichenbachstrasse 47, trachtenvogl.de) to easy listening, funk, electro, house and soul at Ksar Barclub (M\u00fcllerstrasse 31, ksar-barclub.de). The area is also the centre of Munich's gay community with clubs and bars mainly between Thalkirchnerstrasse and Fraunhoferstrasse.Paddle steamers were once the monarchs of the European river systems, but these days they are rare. Except, of course, if you're in Dresden, that reconstructed jewel of an imperial city, because a whole fleet of old beauties operates from this Florence of the Elbe (saechsische-dampfschiffahrt.de). Decks quivering, funnels billowing, paddles kiss-kissing the water, they thump upriver to the castle at Pillnitz (schloesser-dresden.de), and then onwards into mountainous Saxon Switzerland. From their final destination at Bad Schandau, it is only 45 minutes back to Dresden by train.Man has planted his mucky feet firmly into most corners of this planet, but the sea bed has so far been mainly off-limits. Not so in the vast intertidal zones of the Wadden Sea, those enormous tidal flats on the north coast of Germany, where the ebb tide often retreats as far as 10km. Walking out across these mostly sandy flats is called Wattwandern (wattwandern.de), but there's mud here too, of a quality that spa addicts would pay good money for. On certain tides you can walk right out to the Frisian islands, and then catch a ferry back on the returning tide. Go with a guide.X marks the spot where the AlpspiX viewing platform (zugspitze.de/en/summer/berg/garmisch-classic/alpspix.htm) hangs out over a thousand-metre void in the lee of the 2,962-metre Zugspitze, Germany's highest mountain, in southern Bavaria. Two metal walkways cross arms as they reach out into giddy nothingness, and you need to keep your nerve if you intend to walk the full 42 feet to the end of each, especially when it wobbles. The AlpspiX is reached via the Alpspitze cable car from the ski resort of Garmisch-Partenkirchen, \u20ac22 return.Everyone knows Neuschwanstein, the fairytale Bavarian Schloss that inspired Disneyland's Sleeping Beauty Castle, but millions queue for its (perfunctory) tour every year. Far better to take a hike up Schachen to the King's House (schloesser.bayern.de, admission \u20ac4.50) an extraordinary mountain-top retreat also built by castle-obsessed King Ludwig II of Bavaria, and have its bizarre Turkish-themed salon to yourself. It's a four-hour walk up from the car park at Elmau, near Garmisch-Partenkirchen, and you can overnight for as little as \u20ac10 in the next door Schachenhaus (schachenhaus.de), which also serves hot food and cold beer.We may not have heard of Baiersbronn here in the UK, but this small rural community in the Black Forest is a gourmet valley of international repute. Its nine small villages can boast seven Michelin stars, divided between three chefs. They are Harald Wohlfahrt (Schwarzwaldstube/3 stars, traube-tonbach.de), Claus-Peter Lumpp (Restaurant Bareiss/3 stars, bareiss.com) and J\u00f6rg Sackmann (Schlossberg/1 star, hotel-sackmann.de). If you don't feel like joining the queue for a reservation, Baiersbronn is also a prime hiking destination and ramblers can roam the forests on walks guided by a local chef, who'll reveal nature at its tastiest (baiersbronn.de).The Palatinate region, up against the border with France, is where Germany gets super-excited about food and wine. The German Wine Route runs here, with lots of tastings and good little restaurants. In March, the Mandelbl\u00fcte (almond blossom) makes the hills blush. The Ketschauer Hof (from \u20ac220 for a double room, ketschauer-hof.com) in Deidesheim is a stylish conversion of a winemaker's old manor house. In nearby Speyer, more than 1,500 years old and home of the Unesco-recognised Speyerer Dom (imperial cathedral), visitors can explore the city's rich history on a culinary walking tour (\u20ac52 per person, fourth Friday of every month, speyer.de), stopping off at different restaurants for each course of their three-course meal.Put your pedal to the metal on Germany's original grand prix track, the N\u00fcrburgring (nurburgring.de), a looping circuit through the forested Eifel hills. The 14-mile Nordschleife includes 73 right-angle bends and was used as a Formula One circuit until the cars simply became too fast for it. When Niki Lauda was badly injured in 1976 the drivers refused to compete there again, with Jackie Stewart christening it \"green hell\". These days you can drive around it yourself in your own car and see whether you agree, but just don't get distracted by the scenery.The Oktoberfest has lots of siblings all over the country, and it doesn't always have to be about beer. A reliable way to get pleasantly beschwipst (tipsy \u2013 good word!) is by mixing fruit and alcohol. German summertime favourite Erdbeerbowle (a mix of white wine, sparkling wine and strawberries) is a great beschwipst-er and is best enjoyed on a warm evening at the Wilhelmstrassenfest street festival in elegant spa town Wiesbaden (this year from 2-4 June, wiesbaden.de). If you must have beer, the Bergkirchweih festival in Erlangen (9-20 June, erlangen.de), dates back to the 18th century. And Bamberg, beer city par excellence, hosts the Sandkerwa (25-29 August, bamberg.info), when the output of the city's own eight breweries is supplemented by the arrival of outside beer makers, who set up stalls in the old city.The UK and Germany share a love of gardens. Schleswig-Holstein's \"Garden trails between the seas\" (the North Sea and the Baltic Sea) is a selection of nine routes that can be covered by bike (best, it's flat here!) or car (sh-tourismus.de/en/garden-trails). Each route takes in 10 different gardens and parks plus stopovers in tree nurseries or garden cafes. Apart from discovering northern German garden culture, it's a fantastic way to explore a region that is usually off the radar for Brits.Andrew Eames and Barbara Geier are editors of germanyiswunderbar.com", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Munich holidays", "Frankfurt holidays", "Dresden holidays", "Boating holidays", "Cultural trips", "Food and drink", "Short breaks", "City breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Wunderbar! The best of Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-18T12:29:32Z", "country": "germany", "content": "One of the biggest recent news stories in Germany involved a plagiarism scandal that brought down the defence minister, Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg. Perhaps this is a fitting moment, therefore, to recall another case of plagiarism that rocked the literary world at the beginning of 2010.The debut novel by the Berlin author Helene Hegemann, who was 18 at the time, had the unusual title of Axolotl Roadkill and made headlines with its depiction of a teenage girl's drug-addled adventures in Berlin's club scene. But the author found herself attracting headlines of an entirely unwelcome kind when it was revealed that she had borrowed liberally from other writers, including a blogger who goes by the name Airen. The initial enthusiasm for the book quickly melted away, and some critics may have wondered how they had allowed themselves to get caught up in the hysteria over what turned out to be a minor literary event.Perhaps that's why a large swath of German readers are pleased that there is at least one person who never loses his cool, namely the former chancellor Helmut Schmidt. Four of his non-fiction works are among the 10 most successful books of the past 10 years, including Unser Jahrhundert (\"Our Century\"), a conversation with the historian Fritz Stern, which was published in 2010. In Germany it's no longer the pope or J\u00fcrgen Habermas who satisfies the country's yearning for moral guidance, but Schmidt. The former chancellor is depicted on the jacket of Unser Jahrhundert holding his ever-present cigarette, something that is also part of his aura: he not only defies the zeitgeist in his opinions, he even flouts the advice of the medical establishment.The grand old man of German politics would probably frown on another class of author that has proved popular in Germany in recent years: the self-deprecating egocentric. They write entirely about their own experiences from an ironic perspective, and churn out tongue-in-cheek books about such diverse topics as getting old, snoring and having children. One of the most successful works of the genre is the recent Achtung Baby! (\"Look Out Baby!\") by the comedian Michael Mittermeier. For his generation, it seems, becoming a father is not so much a normal biological process as a lifestyle choice.Thomas Hettche also focused on the theme of family in his novel Die Liebe der V\u00e4ter (\"The Love of the Fathers\"), which deals with the relationship between a father and his estranged daughter. Literary critics welcomed the book, partly because its publication coincided with a landmark decision on custody law by Germany's highest court. But Hettche's novel suffered the same fate as Hegemann's book \u2013 only a few weeks after its publication, the critics began to find fault with it.The daughter in Hettche's novel is portrayed as a modern child who spends much of her time texting and listening to her iPod. What could be more shocking than to go without the tools of modern communication? In Ohne Netz (\"Without the Internet\"), Alex R\u00fchle writes about his \"half year offline\". As it happens, this type of \"self-experiment\" has become increasingly popular among German non-fiction authors, who try to live strictly in accordance with the Bible, say, or forgo sex completely.One of the standout works in the genre is Karen Duve's Anst\u00e4ndig essen (\"Eating Properly: How I Tried to Become a Better Person\"), in which the author tries out a variety of green-tinged diets such as vegetarianism and veganism. The result is not so much a polemic as a personal investigation into the food industry and factory farming. In Germany, where there are now plans to build the largest poultry slaughterhouse in Europe, with the capacity for slaughtering 130m chickens a year, it makes sense to be more aware of the side effects of industrial-scale breeding, fattening and killing. The book seemed to be Germany's contribution to a discussion on the ethics of eating sparked by the publication of Jonathan Safran Foer's Eating Animals.Much more controversial \u2013 and successful \u2013 was Thilo Sarrazin's Deutschland schafft sich ab (\"Germany Does Away With Itself\"). This treatise by a former Bundesbank board member is \u2013 to put it mildly \u2013 highly critical of immigration and Muslims, who he claims are threatening the very fabric of German society. The tremendous success of Sarrazin's theories says a lot about the way society is going in Germany, where even the liberal chattering classes unashamedly complain there are \"too many foreigners\" in their kids' schools.Sarrazin's book sold more than 1m copies, contributing significantly to a year-on-year rise in the sales of non-fiction books of 20%. The fiction market, on the other hand, was extremely weak. The bestseller lists are dominated by globally successful fantasy authors such as Stephenie Meyer, or by crime fiction writers such as Britain's Simon Beckett and the American author Elizabeth George.More challenging fare was provided by Melinda Nadj Abonji. Her novel Tauben fliegen auf (\"Falcons without Falconers\"), a family drama about Yugoslavian immigrants in Switzerland, won the 2010 German Book Prize, Germany's answer to the Booker. But unlike previous winners by authors such as Katharina Hacker, Julia Franck and Uwe Tellkamp \u2013 all reliable suppliers of highly marketable light novels for a moderately demanding reading public \u2013 Abonji's novel was a commercial disaster, just reaching number 50 on the bestseller list shortly before Christmas.New books by G\u00fcnter Grass and Christa Wolf reminded us that there were once such things as great German writers. Gruppe 47 (Group 47), a literary association that influenced an entire era and encompassed the country's best authors, disbanded long ago. Which author under 60 could play that role today? Thomas Lehr, perhaps, whose September. Fata Morgana is a linguistic tour de force set in the aftermath of 9/11 and is both celebrated and controversial. Pedantic critics derided it for not having a single punctuation mark (despite the full stop in the title), as if punctuation has anything to do with literature.Next to Lehr's book, the most striking work in stylistic terms was Peter Wawerzinek's Rabenliebe (\"Motherless Child\"). The autobiographical novel seems almost anachronistic, like something from the days when lederhosen-wearing poets declaimed at open windows. The fact that this powerful writer grew up in the communist German Democratic Republic will perhaps encourage some East German intellectuals to claim that the workers' state was a republic of scholars. But anyone who has read Rabenliebe knows that it was a cold, brutal childhood that prompted Wawerzinek to escape into literature.Today the former East Germany is on the road to becoming the Wild East for writers from the west. In Deutschboden (\"On German Soil\"), described as an exercise in \"participatory observation\", Moritz von Uslar spends time with the natives of a Brandenburg village, while Wolfgang Herrndorf's Tschick dispatches two adolescents through the same state in a stolen Lada. The latter was a surprise success.Readers may be wondering at this point whether Basil Fawlty's famous dictum \"Don't mention the war\" also applies to contemporary German literature. But one current literary sensation is a previously almost forgotten novel that deals with the Nazi era. Jeder stirbt f\u00fcr sich allein (\"Every Man Dies Alone\") by Hans Fallada (1893-1947) is the story of a Berlin couple executed by the Nazis; it was recently republished in Germany in its original version. Like the liberation from Hitler in 1945, Germans can also thank the Allies for giving them Fallada's novel back: its republication was inspired by the book's tremendous success in Britain and the United States (as Alone in Berlin).1 Hummeldumm by Tommy Jaud (comic novel about German holidaymakers in Namibia)2 Erbarmen (Mercy) by Jussi Adler-Olsen (Danish crime)3 Fall of Giants by Ken Follett (five families in the first world war)4 The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner by Stephenie Meyer5 Deutschland schafft sich ab (Germany Does Away with Itself) by Thilo\u00a0Sarrazin", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Germany", "Culture", "Fiction", "Biography", "Politics"], "title": "What they're reading in Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:05:06Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Leipzig is fast catching Berlin as a setting for innovative arts, particularly the city's Baumwollspinnerei (spinnerei.de), a former factory that now hosts dozens of eclectic galleries and artists' studios. The Spinnerei is the venue for British artist Jim Whiting's Bimbotown Parties (bimbotown.de, next one 2 April), a mix of music, theatre and lots of crazy stuff by artists from all over Europe. Tickets are sought after but some can usually be bought on the door. The cafe at the Galerie f\u00fcr Zeitgen\u00f6ssische Kunst (gfzk.de) is redesigned every two years by artists and called Kafic in its current version after a makeover by artist-architects Apolonija Sustersic and Meike Schalk. Stay in the Meisterzimmer, a room of 116m\u00b2 right in the middle of the Spinnerei (meisterzimmer.de, \u20ac80 for two, \u20ac160 for up to six people).Beer is so much a part of the fabric of life in Germany that it even has a role to play in monastic existence. The best example is the fabulous Weltenburg Benedictine monastery (klosterschenke-weltenburg.de), dramatically sited on a surging bend in the Danube near Regensburg. Here the monks run what is purported to be the oldest brewery in the world, and their dark beer is potent stuff. Visitors sit at tables in the monastery courtyard, quaffing and eating under spreading chestnut trees, and there's always the option of confession, either before or after, in the monastery's bewilderingly over-decorated rococo church.German actress Jessica Schwarz, a 33-year-old former model who is now among the country's acting elite, has somehow found time to convert an old listed building in her home town of Michelstadt into a boutique hotel. Die Tr\u00e4umerei's 17th-century building houses just four chic and individually designed rooms, as well as a cafe (die-traeumerei.com). Michelstadt itself is in the Odenwald forest, and ideally placed for Heidelberg, Germany's stunning university town, as well as being only 45 minutes from Frankfurt airport. From \u20ac135 for a double room.The largest fruit orchard in northern Europe is in the outskirts of Hamburg, and reachable through the city's S-Bahn system. And yet Altes Land, as the name suggests, is still a deeply traditional place, and it is particularly spectacular at blossom time (late April/early May, tourismus-altesland.de). The landscape is carefully preserved and comes complete with some of the finest half-timbered farmhouses in north Germany. Start exploring from the ancient port town of Stade, the terminus of S-Bahn line 3.Hay hotels are a peculiarly German institution, and an excellent old-fashioned adventure. They're at their best in the giant brick-built farmhouses of northern Germany, where the farmer and his stock all used to sleep under one roof. Many of those farms now open their hay barns (with attached bathroom facilities) to cyclists, who weave unhurriedly towards them across Niedersachsen's tapestry of dykes, marshland and heath (niedersachsen-tourism.de/en). This is ideal family cycling country, with big skies, dedicated cycle tracks, farmyard animals galore and minimal overnight costs, which include an immense farmhouse breakfast.Germany may not be a first-choice destination for ardent skiers, but you can't fault the ambition, and the accessibility, of one of its (almost unknown) ski regions. Sauerland, a hilly area east of D\u00fcsseldorf, describes itself as the \"largest snow paradise north of the Alps\", despite its comparatively low peaks and patchy snowfall (wintersport-arena.de). There are more than 120 ski lifts and a lively apr\u00e8s-ski, and it is good for beginners and intermediates. There's lots of entertainment for no-snow days, such as riding the Taxi-Bob, a bobsleigh run that can reach speeds of 80mph.The Mecklenburg lake district (mecklenburg-lakes.com) is a region of a thousand lakes and watercourses about 70km north of Berlin, and is pillowed in soft woodland and rolling agricultural land. These living waterways have long been a mecca for German boating holidays, although their appeal is more akin to the seductiveness of the Norfolk Broads than the drama of the UK's Lake District. Homemade boathouses line the shores, and youngsters still set off on motorised rafts for watery adventures, like something out of Huckleberry Finn. You can rent sophisticated cabin cruisers here too.The city's tradition as a hub for art dates back hundreds of years. In the 20th century, Joseph Beuys set up shop at the prestigious Kunstakademie (Academy of Arts) and the Becher School photography movement gave birth to household names such as Andreas Gursky and Candida H\u00f6fer. The Kunst Palast (smkp.de) and NRW Forum (nrw-forum.de) are key locations for contemporary exhibitions. The latter is currently showing Zeitgeist and Glamour, with works by David Bailey, Diane Arbus and Andy Warhol.The Sorbs are Germany's most enduring ethnic minority, and they've lived in a crescent of land in modern Brandenburg since the sixth century. Here, the Spreewald (spreewald.de) is a watery mosaic of channels, meadows, fields and forests fed by the river Spree, and easily accessible from Berlin. Key towns are L\u00fcbben and Lehde, where a lot of travel (including tours) is still by boat. Gherkins are a big industry for Sorb farmers, and every April the region hosts a unique Spreewald marathon, which involves running, cycling, walking, and paddling. The starting command? \"Auf die Gurke, fertig, los\" (gherkin, steady, go!) \u2013 not something you're likely to hear at the 2012 Olympics.\"Bankfurt\" is not all about gleaming capitalism, for Frankfurt's Main river undergoes a bank-side transformation in summertime to become a large outdoor bar. Favourites such as the Maincaf\u00e9, with its deckchairs and beach vibe, (between Untermainbr\u00fccke und Holbeinsteg) attract a relaxed crowd. Hafenbar (near Alte Br\u00fccke on the north bank of the river) is the beach bar outpost of the Stereobar club, where visitors can bring their own food. And the city's famous King Kamehameha gets down to the river as well in summer with its King Kamehameha Beach Club (king-kamehameha.de).Budapest doesn't have a monopoly on art nouveau baths. M\u00fcller'sches Volksbad, the \"people's spa\" (swm.de/privatkunden/m-baeder) next to Munich's Isar river is a gem, its murals and stucco the polar opposite of today's sleek and stylish spa designs. Opened in Rosenheimer Strasse in 1901, it is named after engineer (and benefactor) Karl M\u00fcller and it has been kept in its original condition. There are two pools, a steam bath and saunas. Early swimmers (doors open at 7.30am) get a discount and pay only \u20ac2.60 instead of \u20ac3.80.When M\u00fcnchner speak affectionately of Die Glocke, they are referring to an area of trendy shops, easy-going cafes and bars in the Glockenbachviertel and G\u00e4rtnerplatzviertel districts. It's a far cry from pricy Maximilianstrasse, the city's Gucci and Prada mile. Try Westerm\u00fchlstrasse and Klenzestrasse for fashion, as well as Eisenbl\u00e4tter-Triska (Hans-Sachs-Strasse 13, eisenblaetter-triska.de) for quirky hat creations, or boutique Kleider machen Leute (Reichenbachstrasse 10, kleidermachenleute-shop.de) for clothes and style advice. There's plenty of nightlife too, from relaxed retro at Trachtenvogl (Reichenbachstrasse 47, trachtenvogl.de) to easy listening, funk, electro, house and soul at Ksar Barclub (M\u00fcllerstrasse 31, ksar-barclub.de). The area is also the centre of Munich's gay community with clubs and bars mainly between Thalkirchnerstrasse and Fraunhoferstrasse.Paddle steamers were once the monarchs of the European river systems, but these days they are rare. Except, of course, if you're in Dresden, that reconstructed jewel of an imperial city, because a whole fleet of old beauties operates from this Florence of the Elbe (saechsische-dampfschiffahrt.de). Decks quivering, funnels billowing, paddles kiss-kissing the water, they thump upriver to the castle at Pillnitz (schloesser-dresden.de), and then onwards into mountainous Saxon Switzerland. From their final destination at Bad Schandau, it is only 45 minutes back to Dresden by train.Man has planted his mucky feet firmly into most corners of this planet, but the sea bed has so far been mainly off-limits. Not so in the vast intertidal zones of the Wadden Sea, those enormous tidal flats on the north coast of Germany, where the ebb tide often retreats as far as 10km. Walking out across these mostly sandy flats is called Wattwandern (wattwandern.de), but there's mud here too, of a quality that spa addicts would pay good money for. On certain tides you can walk right out to the Frisian islands, and then catch a ferry back on the returning tide. Go with a guide.X marks the spot where the AlpspiX viewing platform (zugspitze.de/en/summer/berg/garmisch-classic/alpspix.htm) hangs out over a thousand-metre void in the lee of the 2,962-metre Zugspitze, Germany's highest mountain, in southern Bavaria. Two metal walkways cross arms as they reach out into giddy nothingness, and you need to keep your nerve if you intend to walk the full 42 feet to the end of each, especially when it wobbles. The AlpspiX is reached via the Alpspitze cable car from the ski resort of Garmisch-Partenkirchen, \u20ac22 return.Everyone knows Neuschwanstein, the fairytale Bavarian Schloss that inspired Disneyland's Sleeping Beauty Castle, but millions queue for its (perfunctory) tour every year. Far better to take a hike up Schachen to the King's House (schloesser.bayern.de, admission \u20ac4.50) an extraordinary mountain-top retreat also built by castle-obsessed King Ludwig II of Bavaria, and have its bizarre Turkish-themed salon to yourself. It's a four-hour walk up from the car park at Elmau, near Garmisch-Partenkirchen, and you can overnight for as little as \u20ac10 in the next door Schachenhaus (schachenhaus.de), which also serves hot food and cold beer.We may not have heard of Baiersbronn here in the UK, but this small rural community in the Black Forest is a gourmet valley of international repute. Its nine small villages can boast seven Michelin stars, divided between three chefs. They are Harald Wohlfahrt (Schwarzwaldstube/3 stars, traube-tonbach.de), Claus-Peter Lumpp (Restaurant Bareiss/3 stars, bareiss.com) and J\u00f6rg Sackmann (Schlossberg/1 star, hotel-sackmann.de). If you don't feel like joining the queue for a reservation, Baiersbronn is also a prime hiking destination and ramblers can roam the forests on walks guided by a local chef, who'll reveal nature at its tastiest (baiersbronn.de).The Palatinate region, up against the border with France, is where Germany gets super-excited about food and wine. The German Wine Route runs here, with lots of tastings and good little restaurants. In March, the Mandelbl\u00fcte (almond blossom) makes the hills blush. The Ketschauer Hof (from \u20ac220 for a double room, ketschauer-hof.com) in Deidesheim is a stylish conversion of a winemaker's old manor house. In nearby Speyer, more than 1,500 years old and home of the Unesco-recognised Speyerer Dom (imperial cathedral), visitors can explore the city's rich history on a culinary walking tour (\u20ac52 per person, fourth Friday of every month, speyer.de), stopping off at different restaurants for each course of their three-course meal.Put your pedal to the metal on Germany's original grand prix track, the N\u00fcrburgring (nurburgring.de), a looping circuit through the forested Eifel hills. The 14-mile Nordschleife includes 73 right-angle bends and was used as a Formula One circuit until the cars simply became too fast for it. When Niki Lauda was badly injured in 1976 the drivers refused to compete there again, with Jackie Stewart christening it \"green hell\". These days you can drive around it yourself in your own car and see whether you agree, but just don't get distracted by the scenery.The Oktoberfest has lots of siblings all over the country, and it doesn't always have to be about beer. A reliable way to get pleasantly beschwipst (tipsy \u2013 good word!) is by mixing fruit and alcohol. German summertime favourite Erdbeerbowle (a mix of white wine, sparkling wine and strawberries) is a great beschwipst-er and is best enjoyed on a warm evening at the Wilhelmstrassenfest street festival in elegant spa town Wiesbaden (this year from 2-4 June, wiesbaden.de). If you must have beer, the Bergkirchweih festival in Erlangen (9-20 June, erlangen.de), dates back to the 18th century. And Bamberg, beer city par excellence, hosts the Sandkerwa (25-29 August, bamberg.info), when the output of the city's own eight breweries is supplemented by the arrival of outside beer makers, who set up stalls in the old city.The UK and Germany share a love of gardens. Schleswig-Holstein's \"Garden trails between the seas\" (the North Sea and the Baltic Sea) is a selection of nine routes that can be covered by bike (best, it's flat here!) or car (sh-tourismus.de/en/garden-trails). Each route takes in 10 different gardens and parks plus stopovers in tree nurseries or garden cafes. Apart from discovering northern German garden culture, it's a fantastic way to explore a region that is usually off the radar for Brits.Andrew Eames and Barbara Geier are editors of germanyiswunderbar.com", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Munich holidays", "Frankfurt holidays", "Dresden holidays", "Boating holidays", "Cultural trips", "Food and drink", "Short breaks", "City breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Wunderbar! The best of Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-18T12:29:32Z", "country": "germany", "content": "One of the biggest recent news stories in Germany involved a plagiarism scandal that brought down the defence minister, Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg. Perhaps this is a fitting moment, therefore, to recall another case of plagiarism that rocked the literary world at the beginning of 2010.The debut novel by the Berlin author Helene Hegemann, who was 18 at the time, had the unusual title of Axolotl Roadkill and made headlines with its depiction of a teenage girl's drug-addled adventures in Berlin's club scene. But the author found herself attracting headlines of an entirely unwelcome kind when it was revealed that she had borrowed liberally from other writers, including a blogger who goes by the name Airen. The initial enthusiasm for the book quickly melted away, and some critics may have wondered how they had allowed themselves to get caught up in the hysteria over what turned out to be a minor literary event.Perhaps that's why a large swath of German readers are pleased that there is at least one person who never loses his cool, namely the former chancellor Helmut Schmidt. Four of his non-fiction works are among the 10 most successful books of the past 10 years, including Unser Jahrhundert (\"Our Century\"), a conversation with the historian Fritz Stern, which was published in 2010. In Germany it's no longer the pope or J\u00fcrgen Habermas who satisfies the country's yearning for moral guidance, but Schmidt. The former chancellor is depicted on the jacket of Unser Jahrhundert holding his ever-present cigarette, something that is also part of his aura: he not only defies the zeitgeist in his opinions, he even flouts the advice of the medical establishment.The grand old man of German politics would probably frown on another class of author that has proved popular in Germany in recent years: the self-deprecating egocentric. They write entirely about their own experiences from an ironic perspective, and churn out tongue-in-cheek books about such diverse topics as getting old, snoring and having children. One of the most successful works of the genre is the recent Achtung Baby! (\"Look Out Baby!\") by the comedian Michael Mittermeier. For his generation, it seems, becoming a father is not so much a normal biological process as a lifestyle choice.Thomas Hettche also focused on the theme of family in his novel Die Liebe der V\u00e4ter (\"The Love of the Fathers\"), which deals with the relationship between a father and his estranged daughter. Literary critics welcomed the book, partly because its publication coincided with a landmark decision on custody law by Germany's highest court. But Hettche's novel suffered the same fate as Hegemann's book \u2013 only a few weeks after its publication, the critics began to find fault with it.The daughter in Hettche's novel is portrayed as a modern child who spends much of her time texting and listening to her iPod. What could be more shocking than to go without the tools of modern communication? In Ohne Netz (\"Without the Internet\"), Alex R\u00fchle writes about his \"half year offline\". As it happens, this type of \"self-experiment\" has become increasingly popular among German non-fiction authors, who try to live strictly in accordance with the Bible, say, or forgo sex completely.One of the standout works in the genre is Karen Duve's Anst\u00e4ndig essen (\"Eating Properly: How I Tried to Become a Better Person\"), in which the author tries out a variety of green-tinged diets such as vegetarianism and veganism. The result is not so much a polemic as a personal investigation into the food industry and factory farming. In Germany, where there are now plans to build the largest poultry slaughterhouse in Europe, with the capacity for slaughtering 130m chickens a year, it makes sense to be more aware of the side effects of industrial-scale breeding, fattening and killing. The book seemed to be Germany's contribution to a discussion on the ethics of eating sparked by the publication of Jonathan Safran Foer's Eating Animals.Much more controversial \u2013 and successful \u2013 was Thilo Sarrazin's Deutschland schafft sich ab (\"Germany Does Away With Itself\"). This treatise by a former Bundesbank board member is \u2013 to put it mildly \u2013 highly critical of immigration and Muslims, who he claims are threatening the very fabric of German society. The tremendous success of Sarrazin's theories says a lot about the way society is going in Germany, where even the liberal chattering classes unashamedly complain there are \"too many foreigners\" in their kids' schools.Sarrazin's book sold more than 1m copies, contributing significantly to a year-on-year rise in the sales of non-fiction books of 20%. The fiction market, on the other hand, was extremely weak. The bestseller lists are dominated by globally successful fantasy authors such as Stephenie Meyer, or by crime fiction writers such as Britain's Simon Beckett and the American author Elizabeth George.More challenging fare was provided by Melinda Nadj Abonji. Her novel Tauben fliegen auf (\"Falcons without Falconers\"), a family drama about Yugoslavian immigrants in Switzerland, won the 2010 German Book Prize, Germany's answer to the Booker. But unlike previous winners by authors such as Katharina Hacker, Julia Franck and Uwe Tellkamp \u2013 all reliable suppliers of highly marketable light novels for a moderately demanding reading public \u2013 Abonji's novel was a commercial disaster, just reaching number 50 on the bestseller list shortly before Christmas.New books by G\u00fcnter Grass and Christa Wolf reminded us that there were once such things as great German writers. Gruppe 47 (Group 47), a literary association that influenced an entire era and encompassed the country's best authors, disbanded long ago. Which author under 60 could play that role today? Thomas Lehr, perhaps, whose September. Fata Morgana is a linguistic tour de force set in the aftermath of 9/11 and is both celebrated and controversial. Pedantic critics derided it for not having a single punctuation mark (despite the full stop in the title), as if punctuation has anything to do with literature.Next to Lehr's book, the most striking work in stylistic terms was Peter Wawerzinek's Rabenliebe (\"Motherless Child\"). The autobiographical novel seems almost anachronistic, like something from the days when lederhosen-wearing poets declaimed at open windows. The fact that this powerful writer grew up in the communist German Democratic Republic will perhaps encourage some East German intellectuals to claim that the workers' state was a republic of scholars. But anyone who has read Rabenliebe knows that it was a cold, brutal childhood that prompted Wawerzinek to escape into literature.Today the former East Germany is on the road to becoming the Wild East for writers from the west. In Deutschboden (\"On German Soil\"), described as an exercise in \"participatory observation\", Moritz von Uslar spends time with the natives of a Brandenburg village, while Wolfgang Herrndorf's Tschick dispatches two adolescents through the same state in a stolen Lada. The latter was a surprise success.Readers may be wondering at this point whether Basil Fawlty's famous dictum \"Don't mention the war\" also applies to contemporary German literature. But one current literary sensation is a previously almost forgotten novel that deals with the Nazi era. Jeder stirbt f\u00fcr sich allein (\"Every Man Dies Alone\") by Hans Fallada (1893-1947) is the story of a Berlin couple executed by the Nazis; it was recently republished in Germany in its original version. Like the liberation from Hitler in 1945, Germans can also thank the Allies for giving them Fallada's novel back: its republication was inspired by the book's tremendous success in Britain and the United States (as Alone in Berlin).1 Hummeldumm by Tommy Jaud (comic novel about German holidaymakers in Namibia)2 Erbarmen (Mercy) by Jussi Adler-Olsen (Danish crime)3 Fall of Giants by Ken Follett (five families in the first world war)4 The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner by Stephenie Meyer5 Deutschland schafft sich ab (Germany Does Away with Itself) by Thilo\u00a0Sarrazin", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Germany", "Culture", "Fiction", "Biography", "Politics"], "title": "What they're reading in Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-14T09:26:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "9.24am: Guten Morgen! As part of the Guardian's month-long Europe season, I'm live blogging today from the Hamburg offices of Der Spiegel, Germany's most celebrated news magazine. Der Spiegel has long been a German institution and is essential reading for anyone who wants to understand Germany or German politics, so it should be a good base.The Guardian's editor-in-chief, Alan Rusbridger sets out the purpose of our Europe series here. \"Too often Europe is discussed and reported through its common institutions or purely in terms of its relations with Britain,\" he writes.Here are a few highlights of our coverage today: We've got the results of a Europe-wide ICM poll that shows trust in politicians at rock bottom around Europe \u2013 and the lack of trust is greatest in Poland and France.Today's focus is on Germany and we have a provocative comment piece  from Hans-Olaf Henkel, a former president of the Federation of German Industries, who argues that the euro should be split in two \u2013 a northern zone with a strong adherence to \"monetary and budgetary stability, and a southern zone that would reflect a \"free-spending mentality and talent for monetary improvisation\". And the headline of the day award goes to this piece about German theatre by Guardian critic Michael Billington, \"Don't mention the phwoar\".You can read the rest of the Guardian's coverage here. Later today, I'm interviewing Der Spiegel's editor-in-chief, Georg Mascolo.I want to ask him about Angela Merkel, WikiLeaks' revelations, and Der Spiegel's relationship with Julian Assange. (Unlike the Guardian and New York Times, Der Spiegel is still on friendly terms with the WikiLeaks founder.) You can find the Guardian's coverage from Germany today here. Spiegel Online is currently leading with the latest explosion at the Japanese nuclear reactor in Fukushima.9.30am: Morning conference in the offices of Spiegel Online has just got under way. The main theme of discussion is Japan and the rapidly worsening situation at the Fukushima reactor. There's a view among Spiegel journalists that the Japanese government is deliberately underplaying the scale of the crisis in order to prevent panic breaking out among Japan's population. Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron, Spiegel's chief editor, puts it like this: \"These are historic days. The news we've had in the last few minutes suggests that the nuclear reactor's core could be heading for a meltdown.\"9.54am: There's a knock on the door. Urgent news from Berlin: the German government has decided to review the decision to prolong the country's nuclear reactor programme. The catastrophe in Japan has provoked a massive debate about what to do with Germany's own ageing nuclear power stations. The Greens and Social Democrats want the stations to be phased out immediately (remember Atomkraft? Nein Danke!). But Angela Merkel's coalition government recently decided to keep them in service. The government now seems to be having a major wobble.More discussion in the Spiegel conference about how to cover the events in Japan. There's much praise for Spiegel's hastily employed Japanese translator. And apparently an amateur scientist in Tokyo is running round posting live radiation levels on Facebook.10.26am: Conference is over and I'm now installed on the sixth floor of Spiegel Online's offices in Hamburg. Just across the road is the historic building where the main Spiegel magazine is based. The 11-storey block was built in the 1960s and is justifiably famous: its canteen is decorated in lurid oranges and reds. It looks like something out of the film Barbarella. Jule Lutteroth, Spiegel Online's deputy editor-in-chief, tells me there used to be an equally funky swimming pool in the basement. Now, boringly, it houses Spiegel's archives. (Each floor was decorated with its own colour scheme: journalists working on foreign news sat in rooms painted in a hideous dark blue. They eventually demanded a new colour scheme.) Der Spiegel, Spiegel Online and Spiegel TV are moving in August to a new building just down the road. This may be progress, but this modern penthouse is duller than Spiegel's old home.11.20am: I've just had a fascinating chat with Olaf Kanter, Spiegel Online's managing editor. Unlike in Britain, where the newspaper industry seems to be in its death throes, Der Spiegel is making a healthy profit, he tells me. Germany's advertising industry recovered strongly in the second half of last year, he says, and the magazine is selling about 1m copies every week. And it's not only German newspapers doing well: the car-makers BMW, Mercedes, and VW are all posting record profits. \"We haven't suffered like England. You have a much bigger financial services industry. We build more things. Our exports have rescued us,\" Kanter says. Generally, Germans seems much more optimistic than Brits. One of my old friends in Hamburg, Stefan Schaefer, works for the travel agency Travel Overland. We had dinner last night in one of Hamburg's cheap and cheerful Turkish restaurants; he's busier than ever, he says.12.03pm: Another dramatic development: Der Spiegel has decided to pull its reporter out of Tokyo because of the risk a Chernobyl-style radiation cloud could reach the Japanese capital. Thilo Thielke, Spiegel's veteran war correspondent, is leaving Japan today. Spiegel is now covering the story from Bangkok and the south of Japan. Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron says the latest information is ominous: the wind is blowing from the north \u2013 in the direction of Tokyo. \"Perhaps this is a piece of German angst. But no country is more against nuclear power than Germany,\" he says. He adds: \"The wind is shifting from the north and could blow a cloud south directly to Tokyo. This is really horrible. I think this is a big, big crisis and a wake-up call for nuclear energy.\" The German embassy is also making preparations to evacuate some staff, apparently.12.06pm: There is good coverage of Japan in Spiegel Online International, Spiegel's English language window. In an opinion piece Rolland Nelles, a one-time fan of nuclear energy, says in the wake of Fukushima German chancellor Angela Merkel (pictured) will be forced to modify her pro-nuclear stance. He writes:Even the last remaining advocates of the technology must realise that we can't go on like this. It is over. Done. Finished. Nuclear energy cannot be controlled by humans, no matter how good the arguments might be in its favour. The danger of disaster is real, and it can happen at any time \u2013 even in a super hi-tech country like Japan. And it could also happen here in Germany. A sense of security when it comes to atomic reactors is no longer possible. Not anywhere.12.19pm: A few non-Japan stories caught my eye this morning. The German tabloids all report on a driver high on drugs who ploughed into a group of pedestrians in Hamburg yesterday afternoon, killing four of them. One of the victims was Dietmar Mues, an actor in the popular and long-running German police series Tatort (Crime Scene). His wife Sibylle also died. The accident took place in Eppendorf, an affluent part of Hamburg. (I know the area well: my best friend in Hamburg, Michael Fleischer, had an aunt who lived nearby.) Bild Zeitung calls it a \"horror-accident\" (German only).Oh, and a gang of punks are apparently stealing Hamburg's dogs. They have so far made off with a three-month-old bulldog, Joker, as well as a labrador, Buddy, and a sheepdog-mongrel Milo, Bild says.12.58pm: I'm about to try out Spiegel's legendary canteen over the road. But before I go off and grab a Br\u00f6tchen I ask Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron about relations between Germany and England. (In 2006 I wrote an essay arguing the World Cup had transformed Germany's image in the eyes of the British media, and ordinary Brits. The Nazi cliches were over, more or less, I suggested.) Mathias tells me that the Germans don't feel schadenfreude at Britain's current economic woes. He says: \"You have a tricky and difficult situation. David Cameron has to see through a public sector cuts programme of unheard of proportions. I'm surprised there isn't a revolution in Britain going on. We don't like to see other European countries suffer, especially not Britain. I love London. I'm often in Britain. What would Europe do without British newspapers like the Economist, Guardian and FT?\"Der Spiegel hasn't nailed down its plans yet, but is almost certainly going to cover next month's royal wedding. It may even do a live-ticker! Could Der Spiegel be more interested in the royal wedding than the republican Guardian?2.28pm: The Spiegel canteen lived up to its billing! The decor with its space-age ceiling lamps and funky wall balls is a breathtaking piece of 60s modernist kitsch. The chips aren't bad either. Verner Panton is the man who designed it. You can see more examples of his work here on Flickr .The canteen is due to close, alas, in five months' time when Spiegel moves house.I'm off to see Georg Mascolo, Spiegel's editor-in-chief. I'll report back shortly.3.13pm: I talked to Georg Mascolo for 20 minutes \u2013 not bad, given the huge running story in Japan. I asked Mascolo about Julian Assange (pictured) and WikiLeaks. (Assange collaborated with the Guardian, New York Times and Der Spiegel in the release of secret US state department cables last year, as well as war logs from Iraq and Afghanistan. He is no longer on speaking terms with the Guardian and New York Times teams.Mascolo says of Assange: \"He's a very interesting guy. I always thought he might end up running Facebook or Google rather than WikiLeaks. I think we can admire the achievements. We all see his very difficult personality.\" The Spiegel editor-in-chief recalls a tense meeting last November when Assange threatened to boot the Guardian and New York Times out of the newspaper consortium publishing the secret US government communiques. \"There was a moment when he decided only Spiegel would go ahead with printing the cables. I refused and said I was very happy with the relationship with the New York Times and Guardian. We would not accept any split with our group.\"Two Spiegel journalists, Marcel Rosenbach and Holger Stark, have written a German-language book about WikiLeaks, currently on Germany's non-fiction bestseller list.3.28pm: Mascolo also had some interesting things to say about the media industry. He doesn't believe that newspapers should give away their content. Much of Spiegel's success \u2013 it posted huge profits last year \u2013 is due to the fact that Spiegel Online and the Spiegel magazine have almost entirely different editorial content, he says. (Spiegel Online posts only four or five articles from the weekly print edition. Its editorial operation is separate.) Mascolo politely criticises the Guardian's online model, where you can read all the paper's content for free. He says: \"We decided years ago to raise the price for the magazine. It's already \u20ac4 (\u00a33). You might say this is a lot of money but it isn't much more than a cafe latte in Starbucks. I don't believe in journalism for free. I believe if you want to have good quality you have to pay for it.\"3.38pm: Thanks for all your comments about my \"liquid lunch\"! I can assure you I haven't drunk anything stronger than tea since arriving in Hamburg on Sunday.Breaking news: Angela Merkel has just announced a three-month \"delay\" on the German government's decision to extend the lifespan of Germany's ageing nuclear power plants. Her move is clearly in response to events in Japan. But it also appears to be linked to regional elections later this month in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg (and two other federal states) where Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) are running neck and neck with the centre-left Social Democrats. The CDU has controlled Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg for almost 60 years; losing it would be an enormous blow to Merkel's coalition. The nuclear power station debate has dominated the election campaign (German only).4.19pm: My colleague Juan Gomez from El Pais has taken this photo of Mascolo's office on the 11th-floor of Spiegel Towers. There is an amazing panoramic view of the city. On Mascolo's wall is a sign saying: \"Keep calm and carry on.\" He also has a cushion in the colours of the German flag with the words: \"Geld allein macht nicht gl\u00fccklich!\" (Money alone doesn't make you happy!) on a black leather sofa.According to Mascolo, Merkel has every chance of winning Germany's next general election in 2013, despite today's embarrassing U-turn over nuclear energy. \"I don't think she's going anywhere anytime soon,' he says. Merkel's biggest failing, he suggests, is that after seven years as chancellor she has still not properly explained her vision for Germany. Mascolo also says Guido Westerwelle, Germany's foreign minister, is doing better after a disappointing first two years in the job. Unlike British foreign secretary William Hague, Westerwelle \u2013 the leader of Germany's pro-business FDP party \u2013 has had a \"good\" Arab revolution. He has spoken passionately in favour of democracy in the Arab world, though Germany as a whole is opposed to any kind of military intervention in Libya or elsewhere. I'm interviewing Westerwelle on Thursday and will form my own view then.4.55pm: It's been a good day to be live blogging in Germany: after decades of debate the Germans really do appear (unlike the French) to be calling time on their nuclear energy industry. The subject is the top of the political agenda here and today's events in Japan will ensure that it stays there. I spent four years in Germany as the Guardian's correspondent in Berlin (2003-2006) before moving to Russia, from where I was recently, and unhappily, expelled. I've always been struck by how the Germans manage to do things more successfully than the Brits. Today's visit to Der Spiegel has merely confirmed this view. German newspapers are still hugely profitable, (ours are virtually bankrupt) and there seems to be a view here that both journalists and journalism has a future. The German economy has already recovered, while ours is mired in gloom.The Guardian will be covering Germany for the rest of this week as part our month-long Europe season. After that it's on to France, from where Alexandra Topping will be live blogging from Monday. Thanks for all your comments and Tsch\u00fcss! ", "tags": ["Europe", "World news", "Germany", "Media", "Magazines"], "title": "New Europe live blog - Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:05:06Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Leipzig is fast catching Berlin as a setting for innovative arts, particularly the city's Baumwollspinnerei (spinnerei.de), a former factory that now hosts dozens of eclectic galleries and artists' studios. The Spinnerei is the venue for British artist Jim Whiting's Bimbotown Parties (bimbotown.de, next one 2 April), a mix of music, theatre and lots of crazy stuff by artists from all over Europe. Tickets are sought after but some can usually be bought on the door. The cafe at the Galerie f\u00fcr Zeitgen\u00f6ssische Kunst (gfzk.de) is redesigned every two years by artists and called Kafic in its current version after a makeover by artist-architects Apolonija Sustersic and Meike Schalk. Stay in the Meisterzimmer, a room of 116m\u00b2 right in the middle of the Spinnerei (meisterzimmer.de, \u20ac80 for two, \u20ac160 for up to six people).Beer is so much a part of the fabric of life in Germany that it even has a role to play in monastic existence. The best example is the fabulous Weltenburg Benedictine monastery (klosterschenke-weltenburg.de), dramatically sited on a surging bend in the Danube near Regensburg. Here the monks run what is purported to be the oldest brewery in the world, and their dark beer is potent stuff. Visitors sit at tables in the monastery courtyard, quaffing and eating under spreading chestnut trees, and there's always the option of confession, either before or after, in the monastery's bewilderingly over-decorated rococo church.German actress Jessica Schwarz, a 33-year-old former model who is now among the country's acting elite, has somehow found time to convert an old listed building in her home town of Michelstadt into a boutique hotel. Die Tr\u00e4umerei's 17th-century building houses just four chic and individually designed rooms, as well as a cafe (die-traeumerei.com). Michelstadt itself is in the Odenwald forest, and ideally placed for Heidelberg, Germany's stunning university town, as well as being only 45 minutes from Frankfurt airport. From \u20ac135 for a double room.The largest fruit orchard in northern Europe is in the outskirts of Hamburg, and reachable through the city's S-Bahn system. And yet Altes Land, as the name suggests, is still a deeply traditional place, and it is particularly spectacular at blossom time (late April/early May, tourismus-altesland.de). The landscape is carefully preserved and comes complete with some of the finest half-timbered farmhouses in north Germany. Start exploring from the ancient port town of Stade, the terminus of S-Bahn line 3.Hay hotels are a peculiarly German institution, and an excellent old-fashioned adventure. They're at their best in the giant brick-built farmhouses of northern Germany, where the farmer and his stock all used to sleep under one roof. Many of those farms now open their hay barns (with attached bathroom facilities) to cyclists, who weave unhurriedly towards them across Niedersachsen's tapestry of dykes, marshland and heath (niedersachsen-tourism.de/en). This is ideal family cycling country, with big skies, dedicated cycle tracks, farmyard animals galore and minimal overnight costs, which include an immense farmhouse breakfast.Germany may not be a first-choice destination for ardent skiers, but you can't fault the ambition, and the accessibility, of one of its (almost unknown) ski regions. Sauerland, a hilly area east of D\u00fcsseldorf, describes itself as the \"largest snow paradise north of the Alps\", despite its comparatively low peaks and patchy snowfall (wintersport-arena.de). There are more than 120 ski lifts and a lively apr\u00e8s-ski, and it is good for beginners and intermediates. There's lots of entertainment for no-snow days, such as riding the Taxi-Bob, a bobsleigh run that can reach speeds of 80mph.The Mecklenburg lake district (mecklenburg-lakes.com) is a region of a thousand lakes and watercourses about 70km north of Berlin, and is pillowed in soft woodland and rolling agricultural land. These living waterways have long been a mecca for German boating holidays, although their appeal is more akin to the seductiveness of the Norfolk Broads than the drama of the UK's Lake District. Homemade boathouses line the shores, and youngsters still set off on motorised rafts for watery adventures, like something out of Huckleberry Finn. You can rent sophisticated cabin cruisers here too.The city's tradition as a hub for art dates back hundreds of years. In the 20th century, Joseph Beuys set up shop at the prestigious Kunstakademie (Academy of Arts) and the Becher School photography movement gave birth to household names such as Andreas Gursky and Candida H\u00f6fer. The Kunst Palast (smkp.de) and NRW Forum (nrw-forum.de) are key locations for contemporary exhibitions. The latter is currently showing Zeitgeist and Glamour, with works by David Bailey, Diane Arbus and Andy Warhol.The Sorbs are Germany's most enduring ethnic minority, and they've lived in a crescent of land in modern Brandenburg since the sixth century. Here, the Spreewald (spreewald.de) is a watery mosaic of channels, meadows, fields and forests fed by the river Spree, and easily accessible from Berlin. Key towns are L\u00fcbben and Lehde, where a lot of travel (including tours) is still by boat. Gherkins are a big industry for Sorb farmers, and every April the region hosts a unique Spreewald marathon, which involves running, cycling, walking, and paddling. The starting command? \"Auf die Gurke, fertig, los\" (gherkin, steady, go!) \u2013 not something you're likely to hear at the 2012 Olympics.\"Bankfurt\" is not all about gleaming capitalism, for Frankfurt's Main river undergoes a bank-side transformation in summertime to become a large outdoor bar. Favourites such as the Maincaf\u00e9, with its deckchairs and beach vibe, (between Untermainbr\u00fccke und Holbeinsteg) attract a relaxed crowd. Hafenbar (near Alte Br\u00fccke on the north bank of the river) is the beach bar outpost of the Stereobar club, where visitors can bring their own food. And the city's famous King Kamehameha gets down to the river as well in summer with its King Kamehameha Beach Club (king-kamehameha.de).Budapest doesn't have a monopoly on art nouveau baths. M\u00fcller'sches Volksbad, the \"people's spa\" (swm.de/privatkunden/m-baeder) next to Munich's Isar river is a gem, its murals and stucco the polar opposite of today's sleek and stylish spa designs. Opened in Rosenheimer Strasse in 1901, it is named after engineer (and benefactor) Karl M\u00fcller and it has been kept in its original condition. There are two pools, a steam bath and saunas. Early swimmers (doors open at 7.30am) get a discount and pay only \u20ac2.60 instead of \u20ac3.80.When M\u00fcnchner speak affectionately of Die Glocke, they are referring to an area of trendy shops, easy-going cafes and bars in the Glockenbachviertel and G\u00e4rtnerplatzviertel districts. It's a far cry from pricy Maximilianstrasse, the city's Gucci and Prada mile. Try Westerm\u00fchlstrasse and Klenzestrasse for fashion, as well as Eisenbl\u00e4tter-Triska (Hans-Sachs-Strasse 13, eisenblaetter-triska.de) for quirky hat creations, or boutique Kleider machen Leute (Reichenbachstrasse 10, kleidermachenleute-shop.de) for clothes and style advice. There's plenty of nightlife too, from relaxed retro at Trachtenvogl (Reichenbachstrasse 47, trachtenvogl.de) to easy listening, funk, electro, house and soul at Ksar Barclub (M\u00fcllerstrasse 31, ksar-barclub.de). The area is also the centre of Munich's gay community with clubs and bars mainly between Thalkirchnerstrasse and Fraunhoferstrasse.Paddle steamers were once the monarchs of the European river systems, but these days they are rare. Except, of course, if you're in Dresden, that reconstructed jewel of an imperial city, because a whole fleet of old beauties operates from this Florence of the Elbe (saechsische-dampfschiffahrt.de). Decks quivering, funnels billowing, paddles kiss-kissing the water, they thump upriver to the castle at Pillnitz (schloesser-dresden.de), and then onwards into mountainous Saxon Switzerland. From their final destination at Bad Schandau, it is only 45 minutes back to Dresden by train.Man has planted his mucky feet firmly into most corners of this planet, but the sea bed has so far been mainly off-limits. Not so in the vast intertidal zones of the Wadden Sea, those enormous tidal flats on the north coast of Germany, where the ebb tide often retreats as far as 10km. Walking out across these mostly sandy flats is called Wattwandern (wattwandern.de), but there's mud here too, of a quality that spa addicts would pay good money for. On certain tides you can walk right out to the Frisian islands, and then catch a ferry back on the returning tide. Go with a guide.X marks the spot where the AlpspiX viewing platform (zugspitze.de/en/summer/berg/garmisch-classic/alpspix.htm) hangs out over a thousand-metre void in the lee of the 2,962-metre Zugspitze, Germany's highest mountain, in southern Bavaria. Two metal walkways cross arms as they reach out into giddy nothingness, and you need to keep your nerve if you intend to walk the full 42 feet to the end of each, especially when it wobbles. The AlpspiX is reached via the Alpspitze cable car from the ski resort of Garmisch-Partenkirchen, \u20ac22 return.Everyone knows Neuschwanstein, the fairytale Bavarian Schloss that inspired Disneyland's Sleeping Beauty Castle, but millions queue for its (perfunctory) tour every year. Far better to take a hike up Schachen to the King's House (schloesser.bayern.de, admission \u20ac4.50) an extraordinary mountain-top retreat also built by castle-obsessed King Ludwig II of Bavaria, and have its bizarre Turkish-themed salon to yourself. It's a four-hour walk up from the car park at Elmau, near Garmisch-Partenkirchen, and you can overnight for as little as \u20ac10 in the next door Schachenhaus (schachenhaus.de), which also serves hot food and cold beer.We may not have heard of Baiersbronn here in the UK, but this small rural community in the Black Forest is a gourmet valley of international repute. Its nine small villages can boast seven Michelin stars, divided between three chefs. They are Harald Wohlfahrt (Schwarzwaldstube/3 stars, traube-tonbach.de), Claus-Peter Lumpp (Restaurant Bareiss/3 stars, bareiss.com) and J\u00f6rg Sackmann (Schlossberg/1 star, hotel-sackmann.de). If you don't feel like joining the queue for a reservation, Baiersbronn is also a prime hiking destination and ramblers can roam the forests on walks guided by a local chef, who'll reveal nature at its tastiest (baiersbronn.de).The Palatinate region, up against the border with France, is where Germany gets super-excited about food and wine. The German Wine Route runs here, with lots of tastings and good little restaurants. In March, the Mandelbl\u00fcte (almond blossom) makes the hills blush. The Ketschauer Hof (from \u20ac220 for a double room, ketschauer-hof.com) in Deidesheim is a stylish conversion of a winemaker's old manor house. In nearby Speyer, more than 1,500 years old and home of the Unesco-recognised Speyerer Dom (imperial cathedral), visitors can explore the city's rich history on a culinary walking tour (\u20ac52 per person, fourth Friday of every month, speyer.de), stopping off at different restaurants for each course of their three-course meal.Put your pedal to the metal on Germany's original grand prix track, the N\u00fcrburgring (nurburgring.de), a looping circuit through the forested Eifel hills. The 14-mile Nordschleife includes 73 right-angle bends and was used as a Formula One circuit until the cars simply became too fast for it. When Niki Lauda was badly injured in 1976 the drivers refused to compete there again, with Jackie Stewart christening it \"green hell\". These days you can drive around it yourself in your own car and see whether you agree, but just don't get distracted by the scenery.The Oktoberfest has lots of siblings all over the country, and it doesn't always have to be about beer. A reliable way to get pleasantly beschwipst (tipsy \u2013 good word!) is by mixing fruit and alcohol. German summertime favourite Erdbeerbowle (a mix of white wine, sparkling wine and strawberries) is a great beschwipst-er and is best enjoyed on a warm evening at the Wilhelmstrassenfest street festival in elegant spa town Wiesbaden (this year from 2-4 June, wiesbaden.de). If you must have beer, the Bergkirchweih festival in Erlangen (9-20 June, erlangen.de), dates back to the 18th century. And Bamberg, beer city par excellence, hosts the Sandkerwa (25-29 August, bamberg.info), when the output of the city's own eight breweries is supplemented by the arrival of outside beer makers, who set up stalls in the old city.The UK and Germany share a love of gardens. Schleswig-Holstein's \"Garden trails between the seas\" (the North Sea and the Baltic Sea) is a selection of nine routes that can be covered by bike (best, it's flat here!) or car (sh-tourismus.de/en/garden-trails). Each route takes in 10 different gardens and parks plus stopovers in tree nurseries or garden cafes. Apart from discovering northern German garden culture, it's a fantastic way to explore a region that is usually off the radar for Brits.Andrew Eames and Barbara Geier are editors of germanyiswunderbar.com", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Munich holidays", "Frankfurt holidays", "Dresden holidays", "Boating holidays", "Cultural trips", "Food and drink", "Short breaks", "City breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Wunderbar! The best of Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-18T12:29:32Z", "country": "germany", "content": "One of the biggest recent news stories in Germany involved a plagiarism scandal that brought down the defence minister, Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg. Perhaps this is a fitting moment, therefore, to recall another case of plagiarism that rocked the literary world at the beginning of 2010.The debut novel by the Berlin author Helene Hegemann, who was 18 at the time, had the unusual title of Axolotl Roadkill and made headlines with its depiction of a teenage girl's drug-addled adventures in Berlin's club scene. But the author found herself attracting headlines of an entirely unwelcome kind when it was revealed that she had borrowed liberally from other writers, including a blogger who goes by the name Airen. The initial enthusiasm for the book quickly melted away, and some critics may have wondered how they had allowed themselves to get caught up in the hysteria over what turned out to be a minor literary event.Perhaps that's why a large swath of German readers are pleased that there is at least one person who never loses his cool, namely the former chancellor Helmut Schmidt. Four of his non-fiction works are among the 10 most successful books of the past 10 years, including Unser Jahrhundert (\"Our Century\"), a conversation with the historian Fritz Stern, which was published in 2010. In Germany it's no longer the pope or J\u00fcrgen Habermas who satisfies the country's yearning for moral guidance, but Schmidt. The former chancellor is depicted on the jacket of Unser Jahrhundert holding his ever-present cigarette, something that is also part of his aura: he not only defies the zeitgeist in his opinions, he even flouts the advice of the medical establishment.The grand old man of German politics would probably frown on another class of author that has proved popular in Germany in recent years: the self-deprecating egocentric. They write entirely about their own experiences from an ironic perspective, and churn out tongue-in-cheek books about such diverse topics as getting old, snoring and having children. One of the most successful works of the genre is the recent Achtung Baby! (\"Look Out Baby!\") by the comedian Michael Mittermeier. For his generation, it seems, becoming a father is not so much a normal biological process as a lifestyle choice.Thomas Hettche also focused on the theme of family in his novel Die Liebe der V\u00e4ter (\"The Love of the Fathers\"), which deals with the relationship between a father and his estranged daughter. Literary critics welcomed the book, partly because its publication coincided with a landmark decision on custody law by Germany's highest court. But Hettche's novel suffered the same fate as Hegemann's book \u2013 only a few weeks after its publication, the critics began to find fault with it.The daughter in Hettche's novel is portrayed as a modern child who spends much of her time texting and listening to her iPod. What could be more shocking than to go without the tools of modern communication? In Ohne Netz (\"Without the Internet\"), Alex R\u00fchle writes about his \"half year offline\". As it happens, this type of \"self-experiment\" has become increasingly popular among German non-fiction authors, who try to live strictly in accordance with the Bible, say, or forgo sex completely.One of the standout works in the genre is Karen Duve's Anst\u00e4ndig essen (\"Eating Properly: How I Tried to Become a Better Person\"), in which the author tries out a variety of green-tinged diets such as vegetarianism and veganism. The result is not so much a polemic as a personal investigation into the food industry and factory farming. In Germany, where there are now plans to build the largest poultry slaughterhouse in Europe, with the capacity for slaughtering 130m chickens a year, it makes sense to be more aware of the side effects of industrial-scale breeding, fattening and killing. The book seemed to be Germany's contribution to a discussion on the ethics of eating sparked by the publication of Jonathan Safran Foer's Eating Animals.Much more controversial \u2013 and successful \u2013 was Thilo Sarrazin's Deutschland schafft sich ab (\"Germany Does Away With Itself\"). This treatise by a former Bundesbank board member is \u2013 to put it mildly \u2013 highly critical of immigration and Muslims, who he claims are threatening the very fabric of German society. The tremendous success of Sarrazin's theories says a lot about the way society is going in Germany, where even the liberal chattering classes unashamedly complain there are \"too many foreigners\" in their kids' schools.Sarrazin's book sold more than 1m copies, contributing significantly to a year-on-year rise in the sales of non-fiction books of 20%. The fiction market, on the other hand, was extremely weak. The bestseller lists are dominated by globally successful fantasy authors such as Stephenie Meyer, or by crime fiction writers such as Britain's Simon Beckett and the American author Elizabeth George.More challenging fare was provided by Melinda Nadj Abonji. Her novel Tauben fliegen auf (\"Falcons without Falconers\"), a family drama about Yugoslavian immigrants in Switzerland, won the 2010 German Book Prize, Germany's answer to the Booker. But unlike previous winners by authors such as Katharina Hacker, Julia Franck and Uwe Tellkamp \u2013 all reliable suppliers of highly marketable light novels for a moderately demanding reading public \u2013 Abonji's novel was a commercial disaster, just reaching number 50 on the bestseller list shortly before Christmas.New books by G\u00fcnter Grass and Christa Wolf reminded us that there were once such things as great German writers. Gruppe 47 (Group 47), a literary association that influenced an entire era and encompassed the country's best authors, disbanded long ago. Which author under 60 could play that role today? Thomas Lehr, perhaps, whose September. Fata Morgana is a linguistic tour de force set in the aftermath of 9/11 and is both celebrated and controversial. Pedantic critics derided it for not having a single punctuation mark (despite the full stop in the title), as if punctuation has anything to do with literature.Next to Lehr's book, the most striking work in stylistic terms was Peter Wawerzinek's Rabenliebe (\"Motherless Child\"). The autobiographical novel seems almost anachronistic, like something from the days when lederhosen-wearing poets declaimed at open windows. The fact that this powerful writer grew up in the communist German Democratic Republic will perhaps encourage some East German intellectuals to claim that the workers' state was a republic of scholars. But anyone who has read Rabenliebe knows that it was a cold, brutal childhood that prompted Wawerzinek to escape into literature.Today the former East Germany is on the road to becoming the Wild East for writers from the west. In Deutschboden (\"On German Soil\"), described as an exercise in \"participatory observation\", Moritz von Uslar spends time with the natives of a Brandenburg village, while Wolfgang Herrndorf's Tschick dispatches two adolescents through the same state in a stolen Lada. The latter was a surprise success.Readers may be wondering at this point whether Basil Fawlty's famous dictum \"Don't mention the war\" also applies to contemporary German literature. But one current literary sensation is a previously almost forgotten novel that deals with the Nazi era. Jeder stirbt f\u00fcr sich allein (\"Every Man Dies Alone\") by Hans Fallada (1893-1947) is the story of a Berlin couple executed by the Nazis; it was recently republished in Germany in its original version. Like the liberation from Hitler in 1945, Germans can also thank the Allies for giving them Fallada's novel back: its republication was inspired by the book's tremendous success in Britain and the United States (as Alone in Berlin).1 Hummeldumm by Tommy Jaud (comic novel about German holidaymakers in Namibia)2 Erbarmen (Mercy) by Jussi Adler-Olsen (Danish crime)3 Fall of Giants by Ken Follett (five families in the first world war)4 The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner by Stephenie Meyer5 Deutschland schafft sich ab (Germany Does Away with Itself) by Thilo\u00a0Sarrazin", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Germany", "Culture", "Fiction", "Biography", "Politics"], "title": "What they're reading in Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-14T09:26:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "9.24am: Guten Morgen! As part of the Guardian's month-long Europe season, I'm live blogging today from the Hamburg offices of Der Spiegel, Germany's most celebrated news magazine. Der Spiegel has long been a German institution and is essential reading for anyone who wants to understand Germany or German politics, so it should be a good base.The Guardian's editor-in-chief, Alan Rusbridger sets out the purpose of our Europe series here. \"Too often Europe is discussed and reported through its common institutions or purely in terms of its relations with Britain,\" he writes.Here are a few highlights of our coverage today: We've got the results of a Europe-wide ICM poll that shows trust in politicians at rock bottom around Europe \u2013 and the lack of trust is greatest in Poland and France.Today's focus is on Germany and we have a provocative comment piece  from Hans-Olaf Henkel, a former president of the Federation of German Industries, who argues that the euro should be split in two \u2013 a northern zone with a strong adherence to \"monetary and budgetary stability, and a southern zone that would reflect a \"free-spending mentality and talent for monetary improvisation\". And the headline of the day award goes to this piece about German theatre by Guardian critic Michael Billington, \"Don't mention the phwoar\".You can read the rest of the Guardian's coverage here. Later today, I'm interviewing Der Spiegel's editor-in-chief, Georg Mascolo.I want to ask him about Angela Merkel, WikiLeaks' revelations, and Der Spiegel's relationship with Julian Assange. (Unlike the Guardian and New York Times, Der Spiegel is still on friendly terms with the WikiLeaks founder.) You can find the Guardian's coverage from Germany today here. Spiegel Online is currently leading with the latest explosion at the Japanese nuclear reactor in Fukushima.9.30am: Morning conference in the offices of Spiegel Online has just got under way. The main theme of discussion is Japan and the rapidly worsening situation at the Fukushima reactor. There's a view among Spiegel journalists that the Japanese government is deliberately underplaying the scale of the crisis in order to prevent panic breaking out among Japan's population. Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron, Spiegel's chief editor, puts it like this: \"These are historic days. The news we've had in the last few minutes suggests that the nuclear reactor's core could be heading for a meltdown.\"9.54am: There's a knock on the door. Urgent news from Berlin: the German government has decided to review the decision to prolong the country's nuclear reactor programme. The catastrophe in Japan has provoked a massive debate about what to do with Germany's own ageing nuclear power stations. The Greens and Social Democrats want the stations to be phased out immediately (remember Atomkraft? Nein Danke!). But Angela Merkel's coalition government recently decided to keep them in service. The government now seems to be having a major wobble.More discussion in the Spiegel conference about how to cover the events in Japan. There's much praise for Spiegel's hastily employed Japanese translator. And apparently an amateur scientist in Tokyo is running round posting live radiation levels on Facebook.10.26am: Conference is over and I'm now installed on the sixth floor of Spiegel Online's offices in Hamburg. Just across the road is the historic building where the main Spiegel magazine is based. The 11-storey block was built in the 1960s and is justifiably famous: its canteen is decorated in lurid oranges and reds. It looks like something out of the film Barbarella. Jule Lutteroth, Spiegel Online's deputy editor-in-chief, tells me there used to be an equally funky swimming pool in the basement. Now, boringly, it houses Spiegel's archives. (Each floor was decorated with its own colour scheme: journalists working on foreign news sat in rooms painted in a hideous dark blue. They eventually demanded a new colour scheme.) Der Spiegel, Spiegel Online and Spiegel TV are moving in August to a new building just down the road. This may be progress, but this modern penthouse is duller than Spiegel's old home.11.20am: I've just had a fascinating chat with Olaf Kanter, Spiegel Online's managing editor. Unlike in Britain, where the newspaper industry seems to be in its death throes, Der Spiegel is making a healthy profit, he tells me. Germany's advertising industry recovered strongly in the second half of last year, he says, and the magazine is selling about 1m copies every week. And it's not only German newspapers doing well: the car-makers BMW, Mercedes, and VW are all posting record profits. \"We haven't suffered like England. You have a much bigger financial services industry. We build more things. Our exports have rescued us,\" Kanter says. Generally, Germans seems much more optimistic than Brits. One of my old friends in Hamburg, Stefan Schaefer, works for the travel agency Travel Overland. We had dinner last night in one of Hamburg's cheap and cheerful Turkish restaurants; he's busier than ever, he says.12.03pm: Another dramatic development: Der Spiegel has decided to pull its reporter out of Tokyo because of the risk a Chernobyl-style radiation cloud could reach the Japanese capital. Thilo Thielke, Spiegel's veteran war correspondent, is leaving Japan today. Spiegel is now covering the story from Bangkok and the south of Japan. Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron says the latest information is ominous: the wind is blowing from the north \u2013 in the direction of Tokyo. \"Perhaps this is a piece of German angst. But no country is more against nuclear power than Germany,\" he says. He adds: \"The wind is shifting from the north and could blow a cloud south directly to Tokyo. This is really horrible. I think this is a big, big crisis and a wake-up call for nuclear energy.\" The German embassy is also making preparations to evacuate some staff, apparently.12.06pm: There is good coverage of Japan in Spiegel Online International, Spiegel's English language window. In an opinion piece Rolland Nelles, a one-time fan of nuclear energy, says in the wake of Fukushima German chancellor Angela Merkel (pictured) will be forced to modify her pro-nuclear stance. He writes:Even the last remaining advocates of the technology must realise that we can't go on like this. It is over. Done. Finished. Nuclear energy cannot be controlled by humans, no matter how good the arguments might be in its favour. The danger of disaster is real, and it can happen at any time \u2013 even in a super hi-tech country like Japan. And it could also happen here in Germany. A sense of security when it comes to atomic reactors is no longer possible. Not anywhere.12.19pm: A few non-Japan stories caught my eye this morning. The German tabloids all report on a driver high on drugs who ploughed into a group of pedestrians in Hamburg yesterday afternoon, killing four of them. One of the victims was Dietmar Mues, an actor in the popular and long-running German police series Tatort (Crime Scene). His wife Sibylle also died. The accident took place in Eppendorf, an affluent part of Hamburg. (I know the area well: my best friend in Hamburg, Michael Fleischer, had an aunt who lived nearby.) Bild Zeitung calls it a \"horror-accident\" (German only).Oh, and a gang of punks are apparently stealing Hamburg's dogs. They have so far made off with a three-month-old bulldog, Joker, as well as a labrador, Buddy, and a sheepdog-mongrel Milo, Bild says.12.58pm: I'm about to try out Spiegel's legendary canteen over the road. But before I go off and grab a Br\u00f6tchen I ask Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron about relations between Germany and England. (In 2006 I wrote an essay arguing the World Cup had transformed Germany's image in the eyes of the British media, and ordinary Brits. The Nazi cliches were over, more or less, I suggested.) Mathias tells me that the Germans don't feel schadenfreude at Britain's current economic woes. He says: \"You have a tricky and difficult situation. David Cameron has to see through a public sector cuts programme of unheard of proportions. I'm surprised there isn't a revolution in Britain going on. We don't like to see other European countries suffer, especially not Britain. I love London. I'm often in Britain. What would Europe do without British newspapers like the Economist, Guardian and FT?\"Der Spiegel hasn't nailed down its plans yet, but is almost certainly going to cover next month's royal wedding. It may even do a live-ticker! Could Der Spiegel be more interested in the royal wedding than the republican Guardian?2.28pm: The Spiegel canteen lived up to its billing! The decor with its space-age ceiling lamps and funky wall balls is a breathtaking piece of 60s modernist kitsch. The chips aren't bad either. Verner Panton is the man who designed it. You can see more examples of his work here on Flickr .The canteen is due to close, alas, in five months' time when Spiegel moves house.I'm off to see Georg Mascolo, Spiegel's editor-in-chief. I'll report back shortly.3.13pm: I talked to Georg Mascolo for 20 minutes \u2013 not bad, given the huge running story in Japan. I asked Mascolo about Julian Assange (pictured) and WikiLeaks. (Assange collaborated with the Guardian, New York Times and Der Spiegel in the release of secret US state department cables last year, as well as war logs from Iraq and Afghanistan. He is no longer on speaking terms with the Guardian and New York Times teams.Mascolo says of Assange: \"He's a very interesting guy. I always thought he might end up running Facebook or Google rather than WikiLeaks. I think we can admire the achievements. We all see his very difficult personality.\" The Spiegel editor-in-chief recalls a tense meeting last November when Assange threatened to boot the Guardian and New York Times out of the newspaper consortium publishing the secret US government communiques. \"There was a moment when he decided only Spiegel would go ahead with printing the cables. I refused and said I was very happy with the relationship with the New York Times and Guardian. We would not accept any split with our group.\"Two Spiegel journalists, Marcel Rosenbach and Holger Stark, have written a German-language book about WikiLeaks, currently on Germany's non-fiction bestseller list.3.28pm: Mascolo also had some interesting things to say about the media industry. He doesn't believe that newspapers should give away their content. Much of Spiegel's success \u2013 it posted huge profits last year \u2013 is due to the fact that Spiegel Online and the Spiegel magazine have almost entirely different editorial content, he says. (Spiegel Online posts only four or five articles from the weekly print edition. Its editorial operation is separate.) Mascolo politely criticises the Guardian's online model, where you can read all the paper's content for free. He says: \"We decided years ago to raise the price for the magazine. It's already \u20ac4 (\u00a33). You might say this is a lot of money but it isn't much more than a cafe latte in Starbucks. I don't believe in journalism for free. I believe if you want to have good quality you have to pay for it.\"3.38pm: Thanks for all your comments about my \"liquid lunch\"! I can assure you I haven't drunk anything stronger than tea since arriving in Hamburg on Sunday.Breaking news: Angela Merkel has just announced a three-month \"delay\" on the German government's decision to extend the lifespan of Germany's ageing nuclear power plants. Her move is clearly in response to events in Japan. But it also appears to be linked to regional elections later this month in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg (and two other federal states) where Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) are running neck and neck with the centre-left Social Democrats. The CDU has controlled Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg for almost 60 years; losing it would be an enormous blow to Merkel's coalition. The nuclear power station debate has dominated the election campaign (German only).4.19pm: My colleague Juan Gomez from El Pais has taken this photo of Mascolo's office on the 11th-floor of Spiegel Towers. There is an amazing panoramic view of the city. On Mascolo's wall is a sign saying: \"Keep calm and carry on.\" He also has a cushion in the colours of the German flag with the words: \"Geld allein macht nicht gl\u00fccklich!\" (Money alone doesn't make you happy!) on a black leather sofa.According to Mascolo, Merkel has every chance of winning Germany's next general election in 2013, despite today's embarrassing U-turn over nuclear energy. \"I don't think she's going anywhere anytime soon,' he says. Merkel's biggest failing, he suggests, is that after seven years as chancellor she has still not properly explained her vision for Germany. Mascolo also says Guido Westerwelle, Germany's foreign minister, is doing better after a disappointing first two years in the job. Unlike British foreign secretary William Hague, Westerwelle \u2013 the leader of Germany's pro-business FDP party \u2013 has had a \"good\" Arab revolution. He has spoken passionately in favour of democracy in the Arab world, though Germany as a whole is opposed to any kind of military intervention in Libya or elsewhere. I'm interviewing Westerwelle on Thursday and will form my own view then.4.55pm: It's been a good day to be live blogging in Germany: after decades of debate the Germans really do appear (unlike the French) to be calling time on their nuclear energy industry. The subject is the top of the political agenda here and today's events in Japan will ensure that it stays there. I spent four years in Germany as the Guardian's correspondent in Berlin (2003-2006) before moving to Russia, from where I was recently, and unhappily, expelled. I've always been struck by how the Germans manage to do things more successfully than the Brits. Today's visit to Der Spiegel has merely confirmed this view. German newspapers are still hugely profitable, (ours are virtually bankrupt) and there seems to be a view here that both journalists and journalism has a future. The German economy has already recovered, while ours is mired in gloom.The Guardian will be covering Germany for the rest of this week as part our month-long Europe season. After that it's on to France, from where Alexandra Topping will be live blogging from Monday. Thanks for all your comments and Tsch\u00fcss! ", "tags": ["Europe", "World news", "Germany", "Media", "Magazines"], "title": "New Europe live blog - Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:04:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Experience the beauty of the Amazon and learn about its wildlife, ecology and complexity at this magical attraction \u2013 inside a 30m-high old gasometer. It features a giant 360\u00b0 panoramic recreation of the rainforest. Bring or hire binoculars so you can spot animals in the 'forest' \u2013 and listen out for their calls. It's a great combination of originality and information.Richard-Lehman Strasse 114, +49 341 35 55 340, asisi.de; entrance \u20ac10 adults, \u20ac5 childrenLesley46Dachgarten at the ReichstagAvoid the queues at the Reichstag for the price of breakfast by booking online at the restaurant Dachgarten. Go straight to the front of any queue to get into the Reichstag and tell them you have booked breakfast, get your name checked off the list by the guards and get escorted through security by your personal escort to the lift that carries you to the restaurant at the foot of the glass dome. Terrific breakfast (and we are vegetarian) and then we had the run of the dome and fabulous views over Berlin. Awesome. Platz der Republik 1, +49 30 2262 9933, bundestag.deLilianhandyEast Side GalleryIt's a 1.3km length of the Berlin Wall with amazing artwork, recently restored. Pollution and graffiti ruined the first lot so get to see it before this happens again.M\u00fchlenstrasse 1, eastsidegallery.comtheairsZwiebelfischWith the demise of Gainsbourg (it's been turned into a supermarket) there's only Zwiebelfisch and Diener flying the flag for old Berlin in this chic square between the K'Damm (Kurf\u00fcrstendamm) and Kantstrasse. Once a hotbed of revolutionary chatter, it's now a very laidback joint that seems totally at ease with itself. Papered in thousands of posters and old photos, it's got a chilled-out vibe thanks in no small measure to the genial owner, a veteran of West Berlin's pre-1989 counter culture. Zwiebelfisch, incidentally, is an old printing expression meaning a letter printed in the wrong font.Savignyplatz 7, +49 30 312 73 63, zwiebelfisch-berlin.deTimETempelhof airportThis now-disused terminal is the third largest building in the world, and the scale is breathtaking, in particular the vast arrivals hall, which was designed by Ernst Sagebiel. He worked in the same offices as Albert Speer, Hitler's architect. It is that worrying link with the past that makes walking through the site all the more interesting. It is particularly eerie now it is empty but there are plenty of reminders of the airport's previous life as a major international terminal and the role it played in the 1948 Berlin Airlift. The US military used it as a base during the cold war, from 1945, and their old offices are left exactly as they were immediately after their departure in 1993. Brilliant.+49 30 6091 1660, berlin-airport.de; the airport tour lasts two hours and costs \u20ac8ppJGNaughtonX-Terrain barGreat little cellar bar in Oranienburger Strasse. Go down the steps and be greeted by the bowler-hatted Ian Dury-esque owner/designer of this DIY retro establishment. Homemade artworks and paraphenalia adorn the brick walls, candles drip wax over their holders \u2013 soak up the smoke-filled ambience and Rolling Stones grooves. Relax on a big-armed sofa and discuss the Tacheles art collective (just along the road) over a Berliner Weisse, green or red. A real taste of creative, underground Berlin.Oranienburger Strasse 40WillJohnson747Strand Pauli Beach ClubStrand Pauli is one of several beach clubs in Hamburg with a great view of the river Elbe. It's near Landungsbr\u00fccken, just 15 minutes from the Hauptbahnhof, Hamburg's central train station. Here you will find good music, German beer and food direct from the barbecue. Relax on comfortable beach furniture under palm trees with your toes in the sand, which is brought each summer from the North Sea coast.Hafenstrasse 89, +49 163 733 58 32, strandpauli.deEppendorferLake DistrictDespite being only a short car or train journey from Berlin, the idyllic region around the Scharm\u00fctzelsee and its smaller lakes is as off the beaten track, as reasonably priced and untouristy as they come. You can pamper yourself in the thermal brine spas at Bad Saarow, spend the night in the opulent surroundings of the fairytale Schloss Hubertush\u00f6he, a former royal hunting lodge, or just take in the unspoilt beaches, woodland and wildlife.Bad Saarow spa, +49 33 631 8680, bad-saarow.de; Schloss Hubertush\u00f6he, hubertushoehe.deBurgermeisterschechThe AldstadtThe city that gave us Kraftwerk also gave us some of the finest beer in the world. The Altstadt is crammed with traditional German beerhalls selling the renowned Altbier. This top-fermented ale is best sampled in the four brewpubs, each with their own distinctive tipple served from the barrel. The oldest is Schumacher, not far from the station, and the other three \u2013 the F\u00fcchschen, Schl\u00fcssel and Uerige \u2013 are in the Altstadt.Oststrasse 123, +49 21 1828 9020, schumacher-alt.deTroutiemcfishWein und Biersh\u00e4nkeFamous for its Flammkuchen and Neuwein, the Sh\u00e4nke restaurant has been satisfying the hunger of both locals and tourists since 1982. The friendly atmosphere is great for any type of gathering, with its flea-market decor and wooden beams.Flammkuchen is a huge rectangular slice of deliciousness, traditionally topped with bacon and onion. It's similar to the humble pizza, but has a sauce made of quark (a type of cheese) instead of tomato. My favourite is half topped with feta and jalape\u00f1os, with the other half covered in mushrooms, onions, sweetcorn and kidney beans. Its non-alcoholic KiBa cocktail (half cherry-half banana) is my favourite accompaniment, except for in September and October, when the sweet-tasting Neuwein is in season.N\u00e4he Dom, Wollstrasse 7-9, +49 62 412 4919, weinundbierschaenke.deemilyreactsCafe BeegCafe Beeg is an old-school German cafe, with a formal atmosphere, delicious food, cakes and coffee. Children are welcomed \u2013 they warmed our daughter's baby meal and brought it out on a silver serving dish \u2013 and the cakes are to die for.Cafe Beeg, Gernsbacherstrasse 44-46, +49 72 213 6760NimitzThe vast Bodensee in south-east Germany is an undiscovered gem to us Brits. Base yourself in the popular island town of Lindau and stroll around the old quarter before heading out to explore the lakeside. You can cycle or walk southwards along the lake to Bregenz in Austria (having a dip in the \"See\" along the way), or take one of the many boats or catamarans across to Konstanz or Rorschach in Switzerland. Venture inland from Lindau and hike up to the top of the Pf\u00e4nder for breath-taking views. Try out the hip Youth Hostel situated on the lakeside in Lindau.Lindau Youth Hostel, +49 83 82 96 710, jugendherberge.de/jh/bayern/lindau/welshlynRiver-surf at the EisbachDespite being far from the ocean, Munich has a reputation as a surfing hotspot. It is highly entertaining to watch local surfers riding the artificial wave. When you have had enough, take a stroll in the English Garden and stop at the Chinese Tower beer garden for a bite to eat and a local beer. Bliss. The Eisbach (artificial river) at the Haus der Kunst, by the English Garden NinnytendoCafe SoloOnly one hour south of Munich by car or train, on the banks of the river Isar, Cafe Solo is a friendly, English-speaking bar and restaurant. The enchiladas are fabulous, as is the \"steak vital\" \u2013 succulent pork loins served with rice. Alternatively, relax on the covered, heated terrace overlooking the bridge and the quaint 12th-century town of Bad Tolz, with its famous mural that lines the main street, sipping a wheatbeer.K\u00f6nigsdorfer Strasse 2, cafe-solo.euArcweldThe Nebelhorn/Breitach gorgeGorgeous Oberstdorf is in the Alpine southern toe of Germany and the cable car ride up to the mountain top gives amazing views across the Alps. Down below are lovely waymarked walks by glacial rivers or through the stunning Breitach gorge. The town itself is a relaxed and reasonably priced tourist spot, popular with German holidaymakers.Oberstdorf has a station and is easily accessed by car or train from Friedrichshafen or Munich airports.oberstdorf.deAlteeGrosser ArberThe highest mountain in the Bavarian Forest, this is a wintersport resort, ideal for families and beginners, but has a couple of black runs, and it also has snowboard railpark. Snow conditions are very reliable, plus it's cheaper than the Alpine resorts and less crowded. It's only a couple of hours by train from Munich airport.visitbavaria.comgermanclairePichelsteinerfest, RegenThe largest and most popular beer festival in the Bavarian Forest \u2013 this year it's on 29 July to 3 August. A highlight is the river floats parade on the Saturday evening, illuminated by candles.pichelsteinerfest.comgermanclaire", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Berlin holidays", "Munich holidays", "Hamburg holidays", "City breaks", "Food and drink", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' tips: the best of Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:05:06Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Leipzig is fast catching Berlin as a setting for innovative arts, particularly the city's Baumwollspinnerei (spinnerei.de), a former factory that now hosts dozens of eclectic galleries and artists' studios. The Spinnerei is the venue for British artist Jim Whiting's Bimbotown Parties (bimbotown.de, next one 2 April), a mix of music, theatre and lots of crazy stuff by artists from all over Europe. Tickets are sought after but some can usually be bought on the door. The cafe at the Galerie f\u00fcr Zeitgen\u00f6ssische Kunst (gfzk.de) is redesigned every two years by artists and called Kafic in its current version after a makeover by artist-architects Apolonija Sustersic and Meike Schalk. Stay in the Meisterzimmer, a room of 116m\u00b2 right in the middle of the Spinnerei (meisterzimmer.de, \u20ac80 for two, \u20ac160 for up to six people).Beer is so much a part of the fabric of life in Germany that it even has a role to play in monastic existence. The best example is the fabulous Weltenburg Benedictine monastery (klosterschenke-weltenburg.de), dramatically sited on a surging bend in the Danube near Regensburg. Here the monks run what is purported to be the oldest brewery in the world, and their dark beer is potent stuff. Visitors sit at tables in the monastery courtyard, quaffing and eating under spreading chestnut trees, and there's always the option of confession, either before or after, in the monastery's bewilderingly over-decorated rococo church.German actress Jessica Schwarz, a 33-year-old former model who is now among the country's acting elite, has somehow found time to convert an old listed building in her home town of Michelstadt into a boutique hotel. Die Tr\u00e4umerei's 17th-century building houses just four chic and individually designed rooms, as well as a cafe (die-traeumerei.com). Michelstadt itself is in the Odenwald forest, and ideally placed for Heidelberg, Germany's stunning university town, as well as being only 45 minutes from Frankfurt airport. From \u20ac135 for a double room.The largest fruit orchard in northern Europe is in the outskirts of Hamburg, and reachable through the city's S-Bahn system. And yet Altes Land, as the name suggests, is still a deeply traditional place, and it is particularly spectacular at blossom time (late April/early May, tourismus-altesland.de). The landscape is carefully preserved and comes complete with some of the finest half-timbered farmhouses in north Germany. Start exploring from the ancient port town of Stade, the terminus of S-Bahn line 3.Hay hotels are a peculiarly German institution, and an excellent old-fashioned adventure. They're at their best in the giant brick-built farmhouses of northern Germany, where the farmer and his stock all used to sleep under one roof. Many of those farms now open their hay barns (with attached bathroom facilities) to cyclists, who weave unhurriedly towards them across Niedersachsen's tapestry of dykes, marshland and heath (niedersachsen-tourism.de/en). This is ideal family cycling country, with big skies, dedicated cycle tracks, farmyard animals galore and minimal overnight costs, which include an immense farmhouse breakfast.Germany may not be a first-choice destination for ardent skiers, but you can't fault the ambition, and the accessibility, of one of its (almost unknown) ski regions. Sauerland, a hilly area east of D\u00fcsseldorf, describes itself as the \"largest snow paradise north of the Alps\", despite its comparatively low peaks and patchy snowfall (wintersport-arena.de). There are more than 120 ski lifts and a lively apr\u00e8s-ski, and it is good for beginners and intermediates. There's lots of entertainment for no-snow days, such as riding the Taxi-Bob, a bobsleigh run that can reach speeds of 80mph.The Mecklenburg lake district (mecklenburg-lakes.com) is a region of a thousand lakes and watercourses about 70km north of Berlin, and is pillowed in soft woodland and rolling agricultural land. These living waterways have long been a mecca for German boating holidays, although their appeal is more akin to the seductiveness of the Norfolk Broads than the drama of the UK's Lake District. Homemade boathouses line the shores, and youngsters still set off on motorised rafts for watery adventures, like something out of Huckleberry Finn. You can rent sophisticated cabin cruisers here too.The city's tradition as a hub for art dates back hundreds of years. In the 20th century, Joseph Beuys set up shop at the prestigious Kunstakademie (Academy of Arts) and the Becher School photography movement gave birth to household names such as Andreas Gursky and Candida H\u00f6fer. The Kunst Palast (smkp.de) and NRW Forum (nrw-forum.de) are key locations for contemporary exhibitions. The latter is currently showing Zeitgeist and Glamour, with works by David Bailey, Diane Arbus and Andy Warhol.The Sorbs are Germany's most enduring ethnic minority, and they've lived in a crescent of land in modern Brandenburg since the sixth century. Here, the Spreewald (spreewald.de) is a watery mosaic of channels, meadows, fields and forests fed by the river Spree, and easily accessible from Berlin. Key towns are L\u00fcbben and Lehde, where a lot of travel (including tours) is still by boat. Gherkins are a big industry for Sorb farmers, and every April the region hosts a unique Spreewald marathon, which involves running, cycling, walking, and paddling. The starting command? \"Auf die Gurke, fertig, los\" (gherkin, steady, go!) \u2013 not something you're likely to hear at the 2012 Olympics.\"Bankfurt\" is not all about gleaming capitalism, for Frankfurt's Main river undergoes a bank-side transformation in summertime to become a large outdoor bar. Favourites such as the Maincaf\u00e9, with its deckchairs and beach vibe, (between Untermainbr\u00fccke und Holbeinsteg) attract a relaxed crowd. Hafenbar (near Alte Br\u00fccke on the north bank of the river) is the beach bar outpost of the Stereobar club, where visitors can bring their own food. And the city's famous King Kamehameha gets down to the river as well in summer with its King Kamehameha Beach Club (king-kamehameha.de).Budapest doesn't have a monopoly on art nouveau baths. M\u00fcller'sches Volksbad, the \"people's spa\" (swm.de/privatkunden/m-baeder) next to Munich's Isar river is a gem, its murals and stucco the polar opposite of today's sleek and stylish spa designs. Opened in Rosenheimer Strasse in 1901, it is named after engineer (and benefactor) Karl M\u00fcller and it has been kept in its original condition. There are two pools, a steam bath and saunas. Early swimmers (doors open at 7.30am) get a discount and pay only \u20ac2.60 instead of \u20ac3.80.When M\u00fcnchner speak affectionately of Die Glocke, they are referring to an area of trendy shops, easy-going cafes and bars in the Glockenbachviertel and G\u00e4rtnerplatzviertel districts. It's a far cry from pricy Maximilianstrasse, the city's Gucci and Prada mile. Try Westerm\u00fchlstrasse and Klenzestrasse for fashion, as well as Eisenbl\u00e4tter-Triska (Hans-Sachs-Strasse 13, eisenblaetter-triska.de) for quirky hat creations, or boutique Kleider machen Leute (Reichenbachstrasse 10, kleidermachenleute-shop.de) for clothes and style advice. There's plenty of nightlife too, from relaxed retro at Trachtenvogl (Reichenbachstrasse 47, trachtenvogl.de) to easy listening, funk, electro, house and soul at Ksar Barclub (M\u00fcllerstrasse 31, ksar-barclub.de). The area is also the centre of Munich's gay community with clubs and bars mainly between Thalkirchnerstrasse and Fraunhoferstrasse.Paddle steamers were once the monarchs of the European river systems, but these days they are rare. Except, of course, if you're in Dresden, that reconstructed jewel of an imperial city, because a whole fleet of old beauties operates from this Florence of the Elbe (saechsische-dampfschiffahrt.de). Decks quivering, funnels billowing, paddles kiss-kissing the water, they thump upriver to the castle at Pillnitz (schloesser-dresden.de), and then onwards into mountainous Saxon Switzerland. From their final destination at Bad Schandau, it is only 45 minutes back to Dresden by train.Man has planted his mucky feet firmly into most corners of this planet, but the sea bed has so far been mainly off-limits. Not so in the vast intertidal zones of the Wadden Sea, those enormous tidal flats on the north coast of Germany, where the ebb tide often retreats as far as 10km. Walking out across these mostly sandy flats is called Wattwandern (wattwandern.de), but there's mud here too, of a quality that spa addicts would pay good money for. On certain tides you can walk right out to the Frisian islands, and then catch a ferry back on the returning tide. Go with a guide.X marks the spot where the AlpspiX viewing platform (zugspitze.de/en/summer/berg/garmisch-classic/alpspix.htm) hangs out over a thousand-metre void in the lee of the 2,962-metre Zugspitze, Germany's highest mountain, in southern Bavaria. Two metal walkways cross arms as they reach out into giddy nothingness, and you need to keep your nerve if you intend to walk the full 42 feet to the end of each, especially when it wobbles. The AlpspiX is reached via the Alpspitze cable car from the ski resort of Garmisch-Partenkirchen, \u20ac22 return.Everyone knows Neuschwanstein, the fairytale Bavarian Schloss that inspired Disneyland's Sleeping Beauty Castle, but millions queue for its (perfunctory) tour every year. Far better to take a hike up Schachen to the King's House (schloesser.bayern.de, admission \u20ac4.50) an extraordinary mountain-top retreat also built by castle-obsessed King Ludwig II of Bavaria, and have its bizarre Turkish-themed salon to yourself. It's a four-hour walk up from the car park at Elmau, near Garmisch-Partenkirchen, and you can overnight for as little as \u20ac10 in the next door Schachenhaus (schachenhaus.de), which also serves hot food and cold beer.We may not have heard of Baiersbronn here in the UK, but this small rural community in the Black Forest is a gourmet valley of international repute. Its nine small villages can boast seven Michelin stars, divided between three chefs. They are Harald Wohlfahrt (Schwarzwaldstube/3 stars, traube-tonbach.de), Claus-Peter Lumpp (Restaurant Bareiss/3 stars, bareiss.com) and J\u00f6rg Sackmann (Schlossberg/1 star, hotel-sackmann.de). If you don't feel like joining the queue for a reservation, Baiersbronn is also a prime hiking destination and ramblers can roam the forests on walks guided by a local chef, who'll reveal nature at its tastiest (baiersbronn.de).The Palatinate region, up against the border with France, is where Germany gets super-excited about food and wine. The German Wine Route runs here, with lots of tastings and good little restaurants. In March, the Mandelbl\u00fcte (almond blossom) makes the hills blush. The Ketschauer Hof (from \u20ac220 for a double room, ketschauer-hof.com) in Deidesheim is a stylish conversion of a winemaker's old manor house. In nearby Speyer, more than 1,500 years old and home of the Unesco-recognised Speyerer Dom (imperial cathedral), visitors can explore the city's rich history on a culinary walking tour (\u20ac52 per person, fourth Friday of every month, speyer.de), stopping off at different restaurants for each course of their three-course meal.Put your pedal to the metal on Germany's original grand prix track, the N\u00fcrburgring (nurburgring.de), a looping circuit through the forested Eifel hills. The 14-mile Nordschleife includes 73 right-angle bends and was used as a Formula One circuit until the cars simply became too fast for it. When Niki Lauda was badly injured in 1976 the drivers refused to compete there again, with Jackie Stewart christening it \"green hell\". These days you can drive around it yourself in your own car and see whether you agree, but just don't get distracted by the scenery.The Oktoberfest has lots of siblings all over the country, and it doesn't always have to be about beer. A reliable way to get pleasantly beschwipst (tipsy \u2013 good word!) is by mixing fruit and alcohol. German summertime favourite Erdbeerbowle (a mix of white wine, sparkling wine and strawberries) is a great beschwipst-er and is best enjoyed on a warm evening at the Wilhelmstrassenfest street festival in elegant spa town Wiesbaden (this year from 2-4 June, wiesbaden.de). If you must have beer, the Bergkirchweih festival in Erlangen (9-20 June, erlangen.de), dates back to the 18th century. And Bamberg, beer city par excellence, hosts the Sandkerwa (25-29 August, bamberg.info), when the output of the city's own eight breweries is supplemented by the arrival of outside beer makers, who set up stalls in the old city.The UK and Germany share a love of gardens. Schleswig-Holstein's \"Garden trails between the seas\" (the North Sea and the Baltic Sea) is a selection of nine routes that can be covered by bike (best, it's flat here!) or car (sh-tourismus.de/en/garden-trails). Each route takes in 10 different gardens and parks plus stopovers in tree nurseries or garden cafes. Apart from discovering northern German garden culture, it's a fantastic way to explore a region that is usually off the radar for Brits.Andrew Eames and Barbara Geier are editors of germanyiswunderbar.com", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Munich holidays", "Frankfurt holidays", "Dresden holidays", "Boating holidays", "Cultural trips", "Food and drink", "Short breaks", "City breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Wunderbar! The best of Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-18T12:29:32Z", "country": "germany", "content": "One of the biggest recent news stories in Germany involved a plagiarism scandal that brought down the defence minister, Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg. Perhaps this is a fitting moment, therefore, to recall another case of plagiarism that rocked the literary world at the beginning of 2010.The debut novel by the Berlin author Helene Hegemann, who was 18 at the time, had the unusual title of Axolotl Roadkill and made headlines with its depiction of a teenage girl's drug-addled adventures in Berlin's club scene. But the author found herself attracting headlines of an entirely unwelcome kind when it was revealed that she had borrowed liberally from other writers, including a blogger who goes by the name Airen. The initial enthusiasm for the book quickly melted away, and some critics may have wondered how they had allowed themselves to get caught up in the hysteria over what turned out to be a minor literary event.Perhaps that's why a large swath of German readers are pleased that there is at least one person who never loses his cool, namely the former chancellor Helmut Schmidt. Four of his non-fiction works are among the 10 most successful books of the past 10 years, including Unser Jahrhundert (\"Our Century\"), a conversation with the historian Fritz Stern, which was published in 2010. In Germany it's no longer the pope or J\u00fcrgen Habermas who satisfies the country's yearning for moral guidance, but Schmidt. The former chancellor is depicted on the jacket of Unser Jahrhundert holding his ever-present cigarette, something that is also part of his aura: he not only defies the zeitgeist in his opinions, he even flouts the advice of the medical establishment.The grand old man of German politics would probably frown on another class of author that has proved popular in Germany in recent years: the self-deprecating egocentric. They write entirely about their own experiences from an ironic perspective, and churn out tongue-in-cheek books about such diverse topics as getting old, snoring and having children. One of the most successful works of the genre is the recent Achtung Baby! (\"Look Out Baby!\") by the comedian Michael Mittermeier. For his generation, it seems, becoming a father is not so much a normal biological process as a lifestyle choice.Thomas Hettche also focused on the theme of family in his novel Die Liebe der V\u00e4ter (\"The Love of the Fathers\"), which deals with the relationship between a father and his estranged daughter. Literary critics welcomed the book, partly because its publication coincided with a landmark decision on custody law by Germany's highest court. But Hettche's novel suffered the same fate as Hegemann's book \u2013 only a few weeks after its publication, the critics began to find fault with it.The daughter in Hettche's novel is portrayed as a modern child who spends much of her time texting and listening to her iPod. What could be more shocking than to go without the tools of modern communication? In Ohne Netz (\"Without the Internet\"), Alex R\u00fchle writes about his \"half year offline\". As it happens, this type of \"self-experiment\" has become increasingly popular among German non-fiction authors, who try to live strictly in accordance with the Bible, say, or forgo sex completely.One of the standout works in the genre is Karen Duve's Anst\u00e4ndig essen (\"Eating Properly: How I Tried to Become a Better Person\"), in which the author tries out a variety of green-tinged diets such as vegetarianism and veganism. The result is not so much a polemic as a personal investigation into the food industry and factory farming. In Germany, where there are now plans to build the largest poultry slaughterhouse in Europe, with the capacity for slaughtering 130m chickens a year, it makes sense to be more aware of the side effects of industrial-scale breeding, fattening and killing. The book seemed to be Germany's contribution to a discussion on the ethics of eating sparked by the publication of Jonathan Safran Foer's Eating Animals.Much more controversial \u2013 and successful \u2013 was Thilo Sarrazin's Deutschland schafft sich ab (\"Germany Does Away With Itself\"). This treatise by a former Bundesbank board member is \u2013 to put it mildly \u2013 highly critical of immigration and Muslims, who he claims are threatening the very fabric of German society. The tremendous success of Sarrazin's theories says a lot about the way society is going in Germany, where even the liberal chattering classes unashamedly complain there are \"too many foreigners\" in their kids' schools.Sarrazin's book sold more than 1m copies, contributing significantly to a year-on-year rise in the sales of non-fiction books of 20%. The fiction market, on the other hand, was extremely weak. The bestseller lists are dominated by globally successful fantasy authors such as Stephenie Meyer, or by crime fiction writers such as Britain's Simon Beckett and the American author Elizabeth George.More challenging fare was provided by Melinda Nadj Abonji. Her novel Tauben fliegen auf (\"Falcons without Falconers\"), a family drama about Yugoslavian immigrants in Switzerland, won the 2010 German Book Prize, Germany's answer to the Booker. But unlike previous winners by authors such as Katharina Hacker, Julia Franck and Uwe Tellkamp \u2013 all reliable suppliers of highly marketable light novels for a moderately demanding reading public \u2013 Abonji's novel was a commercial disaster, just reaching number 50 on the bestseller list shortly before Christmas.New books by G\u00fcnter Grass and Christa Wolf reminded us that there were once such things as great German writers. Gruppe 47 (Group 47), a literary association that influenced an entire era and encompassed the country's best authors, disbanded long ago. Which author under 60 could play that role today? Thomas Lehr, perhaps, whose September. Fata Morgana is a linguistic tour de force set in the aftermath of 9/11 and is both celebrated and controversial. Pedantic critics derided it for not having a single punctuation mark (despite the full stop in the title), as if punctuation has anything to do with literature.Next to Lehr's book, the most striking work in stylistic terms was Peter Wawerzinek's Rabenliebe (\"Motherless Child\"). The autobiographical novel seems almost anachronistic, like something from the days when lederhosen-wearing poets declaimed at open windows. The fact that this powerful writer grew up in the communist German Democratic Republic will perhaps encourage some East German intellectuals to claim that the workers' state was a republic of scholars. But anyone who has read Rabenliebe knows that it was a cold, brutal childhood that prompted Wawerzinek to escape into literature.Today the former East Germany is on the road to becoming the Wild East for writers from the west. In Deutschboden (\"On German Soil\"), described as an exercise in \"participatory observation\", Moritz von Uslar spends time with the natives of a Brandenburg village, while Wolfgang Herrndorf's Tschick dispatches two adolescents through the same state in a stolen Lada. The latter was a surprise success.Readers may be wondering at this point whether Basil Fawlty's famous dictum \"Don't mention the war\" also applies to contemporary German literature. But one current literary sensation is a previously almost forgotten novel that deals with the Nazi era. Jeder stirbt f\u00fcr sich allein (\"Every Man Dies Alone\") by Hans Fallada (1893-1947) is the story of a Berlin couple executed by the Nazis; it was recently republished in Germany in its original version. Like the liberation from Hitler in 1945, Germans can also thank the Allies for giving them Fallada's novel back: its republication was inspired by the book's tremendous success in Britain and the United States (as Alone in Berlin).1 Hummeldumm by Tommy Jaud (comic novel about German holidaymakers in Namibia)2 Erbarmen (Mercy) by Jussi Adler-Olsen (Danish crime)3 Fall of Giants by Ken Follett (five families in the first world war)4 The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner by Stephenie Meyer5 Deutschland schafft sich ab (Germany Does Away with Itself) by Thilo\u00a0Sarrazin", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Germany", "Culture", "Fiction", "Biography", "Politics"], "title": "What they're reading in Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-14T09:26:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "9.24am: Guten Morgen! As part of the Guardian's month-long Europe season, I'm live blogging today from the Hamburg offices of Der Spiegel, Germany's most celebrated news magazine. Der Spiegel has long been a German institution and is essential reading for anyone who wants to understand Germany or German politics, so it should be a good base.The Guardian's editor-in-chief, Alan Rusbridger sets out the purpose of our Europe series here. \"Too often Europe is discussed and reported through its common institutions or purely in terms of its relations with Britain,\" he writes.Here are a few highlights of our coverage today: We've got the results of a Europe-wide ICM poll that shows trust in politicians at rock bottom around Europe \u2013 and the lack of trust is greatest in Poland and France.Today's focus is on Germany and we have a provocative comment piece  from Hans-Olaf Henkel, a former president of the Federation of German Industries, who argues that the euro should be split in two \u2013 a northern zone with a strong adherence to \"monetary and budgetary stability, and a southern zone that would reflect a \"free-spending mentality and talent for monetary improvisation\". And the headline of the day award goes to this piece about German theatre by Guardian critic Michael Billington, \"Don't mention the phwoar\".You can read the rest of the Guardian's coverage here. Later today, I'm interviewing Der Spiegel's editor-in-chief, Georg Mascolo.I want to ask him about Angela Merkel, WikiLeaks' revelations, and Der Spiegel's relationship with Julian Assange. (Unlike the Guardian and New York Times, Der Spiegel is still on friendly terms with the WikiLeaks founder.) You can find the Guardian's coverage from Germany today here. Spiegel Online is currently leading with the latest explosion at the Japanese nuclear reactor in Fukushima.9.30am: Morning conference in the offices of Spiegel Online has just got under way. The main theme of discussion is Japan and the rapidly worsening situation at the Fukushima reactor. There's a view among Spiegel journalists that the Japanese government is deliberately underplaying the scale of the crisis in order to prevent panic breaking out among Japan's population. Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron, Spiegel's chief editor, puts it like this: \"These are historic days. The news we've had in the last few minutes suggests that the nuclear reactor's core could be heading for a meltdown.\"9.54am: There's a knock on the door. Urgent news from Berlin: the German government has decided to review the decision to prolong the country's nuclear reactor programme. The catastrophe in Japan has provoked a massive debate about what to do with Germany's own ageing nuclear power stations. The Greens and Social Democrats want the stations to be phased out immediately (remember Atomkraft? Nein Danke!). But Angela Merkel's coalition government recently decided to keep them in service. The government now seems to be having a major wobble.More discussion in the Spiegel conference about how to cover the events in Japan. There's much praise for Spiegel's hastily employed Japanese translator. And apparently an amateur scientist in Tokyo is running round posting live radiation levels on Facebook.10.26am: Conference is over and I'm now installed on the sixth floor of Spiegel Online's offices in Hamburg. Just across the road is the historic building where the main Spiegel magazine is based. The 11-storey block was built in the 1960s and is justifiably famous: its canteen is decorated in lurid oranges and reds. It looks like something out of the film Barbarella. Jule Lutteroth, Spiegel Online's deputy editor-in-chief, tells me there used to be an equally funky swimming pool in the basement. Now, boringly, it houses Spiegel's archives. (Each floor was decorated with its own colour scheme: journalists working on foreign news sat in rooms painted in a hideous dark blue. They eventually demanded a new colour scheme.) Der Spiegel, Spiegel Online and Spiegel TV are moving in August to a new building just down the road. This may be progress, but this modern penthouse is duller than Spiegel's old home.11.20am: I've just had a fascinating chat with Olaf Kanter, Spiegel Online's managing editor. Unlike in Britain, where the newspaper industry seems to be in its death throes, Der Spiegel is making a healthy profit, he tells me. Germany's advertising industry recovered strongly in the second half of last year, he says, and the magazine is selling about 1m copies every week. And it's not only German newspapers doing well: the car-makers BMW, Mercedes, and VW are all posting record profits. \"We haven't suffered like England. You have a much bigger financial services industry. We build more things. Our exports have rescued us,\" Kanter says. Generally, Germans seems much more optimistic than Brits. One of my old friends in Hamburg, Stefan Schaefer, works for the travel agency Travel Overland. We had dinner last night in one of Hamburg's cheap and cheerful Turkish restaurants; he's busier than ever, he says.12.03pm: Another dramatic development: Der Spiegel has decided to pull its reporter out of Tokyo because of the risk a Chernobyl-style radiation cloud could reach the Japanese capital. Thilo Thielke, Spiegel's veteran war correspondent, is leaving Japan today. Spiegel is now covering the story from Bangkok and the south of Japan. Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron says the latest information is ominous: the wind is blowing from the north \u2013 in the direction of Tokyo. \"Perhaps this is a piece of German angst. But no country is more against nuclear power than Germany,\" he says. He adds: \"The wind is shifting from the north and could blow a cloud south directly to Tokyo. This is really horrible. I think this is a big, big crisis and a wake-up call for nuclear energy.\" The German embassy is also making preparations to evacuate some staff, apparently.12.06pm: There is good coverage of Japan in Spiegel Online International, Spiegel's English language window. In an opinion piece Rolland Nelles, a one-time fan of nuclear energy, says in the wake of Fukushima German chancellor Angela Merkel (pictured) will be forced to modify her pro-nuclear stance. He writes:Even the last remaining advocates of the technology must realise that we can't go on like this. It is over. Done. Finished. Nuclear energy cannot be controlled by humans, no matter how good the arguments might be in its favour. The danger of disaster is real, and it can happen at any time \u2013 even in a super hi-tech country like Japan. And it could also happen here in Germany. A sense of security when it comes to atomic reactors is no longer possible. Not anywhere.12.19pm: A few non-Japan stories caught my eye this morning. The German tabloids all report on a driver high on drugs who ploughed into a group of pedestrians in Hamburg yesterday afternoon, killing four of them. One of the victims was Dietmar Mues, an actor in the popular and long-running German police series Tatort (Crime Scene). His wife Sibylle also died. The accident took place in Eppendorf, an affluent part of Hamburg. (I know the area well: my best friend in Hamburg, Michael Fleischer, had an aunt who lived nearby.) Bild Zeitung calls it a \"horror-accident\" (German only).Oh, and a gang of punks are apparently stealing Hamburg's dogs. They have so far made off with a three-month-old bulldog, Joker, as well as a labrador, Buddy, and a sheepdog-mongrel Milo, Bild says.12.58pm: I'm about to try out Spiegel's legendary canteen over the road. But before I go off and grab a Br\u00f6tchen I ask Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron about relations between Germany and England. (In 2006 I wrote an essay arguing the World Cup had transformed Germany's image in the eyes of the British media, and ordinary Brits. The Nazi cliches were over, more or less, I suggested.) Mathias tells me that the Germans don't feel schadenfreude at Britain's current economic woes. He says: \"You have a tricky and difficult situation. David Cameron has to see through a public sector cuts programme of unheard of proportions. I'm surprised there isn't a revolution in Britain going on. We don't like to see other European countries suffer, especially not Britain. I love London. I'm often in Britain. What would Europe do without British newspapers like the Economist, Guardian and FT?\"Der Spiegel hasn't nailed down its plans yet, but is almost certainly going to cover next month's royal wedding. It may even do a live-ticker! Could Der Spiegel be more interested in the royal wedding than the republican Guardian?2.28pm: The Spiegel canteen lived up to its billing! The decor with its space-age ceiling lamps and funky wall balls is a breathtaking piece of 60s modernist kitsch. The chips aren't bad either. Verner Panton is the man who designed it. You can see more examples of his work here on Flickr .The canteen is due to close, alas, in five months' time when Spiegel moves house.I'm off to see Georg Mascolo, Spiegel's editor-in-chief. I'll report back shortly.3.13pm: I talked to Georg Mascolo for 20 minutes \u2013 not bad, given the huge running story in Japan. I asked Mascolo about Julian Assange (pictured) and WikiLeaks. (Assange collaborated with the Guardian, New York Times and Der Spiegel in the release of secret US state department cables last year, as well as war logs from Iraq and Afghanistan. He is no longer on speaking terms with the Guardian and New York Times teams.Mascolo says of Assange: \"He's a very interesting guy. I always thought he might end up running Facebook or Google rather than WikiLeaks. I think we can admire the achievements. We all see his very difficult personality.\" The Spiegel editor-in-chief recalls a tense meeting last November when Assange threatened to boot the Guardian and New York Times out of the newspaper consortium publishing the secret US government communiques. \"There was a moment when he decided only Spiegel would go ahead with printing the cables. I refused and said I was very happy with the relationship with the New York Times and Guardian. We would not accept any split with our group.\"Two Spiegel journalists, Marcel Rosenbach and Holger Stark, have written a German-language book about WikiLeaks, currently on Germany's non-fiction bestseller list.3.28pm: Mascolo also had some interesting things to say about the media industry. He doesn't believe that newspapers should give away their content. Much of Spiegel's success \u2013 it posted huge profits last year \u2013 is due to the fact that Spiegel Online and the Spiegel magazine have almost entirely different editorial content, he says. (Spiegel Online posts only four or five articles from the weekly print edition. Its editorial operation is separate.) Mascolo politely criticises the Guardian's online model, where you can read all the paper's content for free. He says: \"We decided years ago to raise the price for the magazine. It's already \u20ac4 (\u00a33). You might say this is a lot of money but it isn't much more than a cafe latte in Starbucks. I don't believe in journalism for free. I believe if you want to have good quality you have to pay for it.\"3.38pm: Thanks for all your comments about my \"liquid lunch\"! I can assure you I haven't drunk anything stronger than tea since arriving in Hamburg on Sunday.Breaking news: Angela Merkel has just announced a three-month \"delay\" on the German government's decision to extend the lifespan of Germany's ageing nuclear power plants. Her move is clearly in response to events in Japan. But it also appears to be linked to regional elections later this month in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg (and two other federal states) where Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) are running neck and neck with the centre-left Social Democrats. The CDU has controlled Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg for almost 60 years; losing it would be an enormous blow to Merkel's coalition. The nuclear power station debate has dominated the election campaign (German only).4.19pm: My colleague Juan Gomez from El Pais has taken this photo of Mascolo's office on the 11th-floor of Spiegel Towers. There is an amazing panoramic view of the city. On Mascolo's wall is a sign saying: \"Keep calm and carry on.\" He also has a cushion in the colours of the German flag with the words: \"Geld allein macht nicht gl\u00fccklich!\" (Money alone doesn't make you happy!) on a black leather sofa.According to Mascolo, Merkel has every chance of winning Germany's next general election in 2013, despite today's embarrassing U-turn over nuclear energy. \"I don't think she's going anywhere anytime soon,' he says. Merkel's biggest failing, he suggests, is that after seven years as chancellor she has still not properly explained her vision for Germany. Mascolo also says Guido Westerwelle, Germany's foreign minister, is doing better after a disappointing first two years in the job. Unlike British foreign secretary William Hague, Westerwelle \u2013 the leader of Germany's pro-business FDP party \u2013 has had a \"good\" Arab revolution. He has spoken passionately in favour of democracy in the Arab world, though Germany as a whole is opposed to any kind of military intervention in Libya or elsewhere. I'm interviewing Westerwelle on Thursday and will form my own view then.4.55pm: It's been a good day to be live blogging in Germany: after decades of debate the Germans really do appear (unlike the French) to be calling time on their nuclear energy industry. The subject is the top of the political agenda here and today's events in Japan will ensure that it stays there. I spent four years in Germany as the Guardian's correspondent in Berlin (2003-2006) before moving to Russia, from where I was recently, and unhappily, expelled. I've always been struck by how the Germans manage to do things more successfully than the Brits. Today's visit to Der Spiegel has merely confirmed this view. German newspapers are still hugely profitable, (ours are virtually bankrupt) and there seems to be a view here that both journalists and journalism has a future. The German economy has already recovered, while ours is mired in gloom.The Guardian will be covering Germany for the rest of this week as part our month-long Europe season. After that it's on to France, from where Alexandra Topping will be live blogging from Monday. Thanks for all your comments and Tsch\u00fcss! ", "tags": ["Europe", "World news", "Germany", "Media", "Magazines"], "title": "New Europe live blog - Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:04:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Experience the beauty of the Amazon and learn about its wildlife, ecology and complexity at this magical attraction \u2013 inside a 30m-high old gasometer. It features a giant 360\u00b0 panoramic recreation of the rainforest. Bring or hire binoculars so you can spot animals in the 'forest' \u2013 and listen out for their calls. It's a great combination of originality and information.Richard-Lehman Strasse 114, +49 341 35 55 340, asisi.de; entrance \u20ac10 adults, \u20ac5 childrenLesley46Dachgarten at the ReichstagAvoid the queues at the Reichstag for the price of breakfast by booking online at the restaurant Dachgarten. Go straight to the front of any queue to get into the Reichstag and tell them you have booked breakfast, get your name checked off the list by the guards and get escorted through security by your personal escort to the lift that carries you to the restaurant at the foot of the glass dome. Terrific breakfast (and we are vegetarian) and then we had the run of the dome and fabulous views over Berlin. Awesome. Platz der Republik 1, +49 30 2262 9933, bundestag.deLilianhandyEast Side GalleryIt's a 1.3km length of the Berlin Wall with amazing artwork, recently restored. Pollution and graffiti ruined the first lot so get to see it before this happens again.M\u00fchlenstrasse 1, eastsidegallery.comtheairsZwiebelfischWith the demise of Gainsbourg (it's been turned into a supermarket) there's only Zwiebelfisch and Diener flying the flag for old Berlin in this chic square between the K'Damm (Kurf\u00fcrstendamm) and Kantstrasse. Once a hotbed of revolutionary chatter, it's now a very laidback joint that seems totally at ease with itself. Papered in thousands of posters and old photos, it's got a chilled-out vibe thanks in no small measure to the genial owner, a veteran of West Berlin's pre-1989 counter culture. Zwiebelfisch, incidentally, is an old printing expression meaning a letter printed in the wrong font.Savignyplatz 7, +49 30 312 73 63, zwiebelfisch-berlin.deTimETempelhof airportThis now-disused terminal is the third largest building in the world, and the scale is breathtaking, in particular the vast arrivals hall, which was designed by Ernst Sagebiel. He worked in the same offices as Albert Speer, Hitler's architect. It is that worrying link with the past that makes walking through the site all the more interesting. It is particularly eerie now it is empty but there are plenty of reminders of the airport's previous life as a major international terminal and the role it played in the 1948 Berlin Airlift. The US military used it as a base during the cold war, from 1945, and their old offices are left exactly as they were immediately after their departure in 1993. Brilliant.+49 30 6091 1660, berlin-airport.de; the airport tour lasts two hours and costs \u20ac8ppJGNaughtonX-Terrain barGreat little cellar bar in Oranienburger Strasse. Go down the steps and be greeted by the bowler-hatted Ian Dury-esque owner/designer of this DIY retro establishment. Homemade artworks and paraphenalia adorn the brick walls, candles drip wax over their holders \u2013 soak up the smoke-filled ambience and Rolling Stones grooves. Relax on a big-armed sofa and discuss the Tacheles art collective (just along the road) over a Berliner Weisse, green or red. A real taste of creative, underground Berlin.Oranienburger Strasse 40WillJohnson747Strand Pauli Beach ClubStrand Pauli is one of several beach clubs in Hamburg with a great view of the river Elbe. It's near Landungsbr\u00fccken, just 15 minutes from the Hauptbahnhof, Hamburg's central train station. Here you will find good music, German beer and food direct from the barbecue. Relax on comfortable beach furniture under palm trees with your toes in the sand, which is brought each summer from the North Sea coast.Hafenstrasse 89, +49 163 733 58 32, strandpauli.deEppendorferLake DistrictDespite being only a short car or train journey from Berlin, the idyllic region around the Scharm\u00fctzelsee and its smaller lakes is as off the beaten track, as reasonably priced and untouristy as they come. You can pamper yourself in the thermal brine spas at Bad Saarow, spend the night in the opulent surroundings of the fairytale Schloss Hubertush\u00f6he, a former royal hunting lodge, or just take in the unspoilt beaches, woodland and wildlife.Bad Saarow spa, +49 33 631 8680, bad-saarow.de; Schloss Hubertush\u00f6he, hubertushoehe.deBurgermeisterschechThe AldstadtThe city that gave us Kraftwerk also gave us some of the finest beer in the world. The Altstadt is crammed with traditional German beerhalls selling the renowned Altbier. This top-fermented ale is best sampled in the four brewpubs, each with their own distinctive tipple served from the barrel. The oldest is Schumacher, not far from the station, and the other three \u2013 the F\u00fcchschen, Schl\u00fcssel and Uerige \u2013 are in the Altstadt.Oststrasse 123, +49 21 1828 9020, schumacher-alt.deTroutiemcfishWein und Biersh\u00e4nkeFamous for its Flammkuchen and Neuwein, the Sh\u00e4nke restaurant has been satisfying the hunger of both locals and tourists since 1982. The friendly atmosphere is great for any type of gathering, with its flea-market decor and wooden beams.Flammkuchen is a huge rectangular slice of deliciousness, traditionally topped with bacon and onion. It's similar to the humble pizza, but has a sauce made of quark (a type of cheese) instead of tomato. My favourite is half topped with feta and jalape\u00f1os, with the other half covered in mushrooms, onions, sweetcorn and kidney beans. Its non-alcoholic KiBa cocktail (half cherry-half banana) is my favourite accompaniment, except for in September and October, when the sweet-tasting Neuwein is in season.N\u00e4he Dom, Wollstrasse 7-9, +49 62 412 4919, weinundbierschaenke.deemilyreactsCafe BeegCafe Beeg is an old-school German cafe, with a formal atmosphere, delicious food, cakes and coffee. Children are welcomed \u2013 they warmed our daughter's baby meal and brought it out on a silver serving dish \u2013 and the cakes are to die for.Cafe Beeg, Gernsbacherstrasse 44-46, +49 72 213 6760NimitzThe vast Bodensee in south-east Germany is an undiscovered gem to us Brits. Base yourself in the popular island town of Lindau and stroll around the old quarter before heading out to explore the lakeside. You can cycle or walk southwards along the lake to Bregenz in Austria (having a dip in the \"See\" along the way), or take one of the many boats or catamarans across to Konstanz or Rorschach in Switzerland. Venture inland from Lindau and hike up to the top of the Pf\u00e4nder for breath-taking views. Try out the hip Youth Hostel situated on the lakeside in Lindau.Lindau Youth Hostel, +49 83 82 96 710, jugendherberge.de/jh/bayern/lindau/welshlynRiver-surf at the EisbachDespite being far from the ocean, Munich has a reputation as a surfing hotspot. It is highly entertaining to watch local surfers riding the artificial wave. When you have had enough, take a stroll in the English Garden and stop at the Chinese Tower beer garden for a bite to eat and a local beer. Bliss. The Eisbach (artificial river) at the Haus der Kunst, by the English Garden NinnytendoCafe SoloOnly one hour south of Munich by car or train, on the banks of the river Isar, Cafe Solo is a friendly, English-speaking bar and restaurant. The enchiladas are fabulous, as is the \"steak vital\" \u2013 succulent pork loins served with rice. Alternatively, relax on the covered, heated terrace overlooking the bridge and the quaint 12th-century town of Bad Tolz, with its famous mural that lines the main street, sipping a wheatbeer.K\u00f6nigsdorfer Strasse 2, cafe-solo.euArcweldThe Nebelhorn/Breitach gorgeGorgeous Oberstdorf is in the Alpine southern toe of Germany and the cable car ride up to the mountain top gives amazing views across the Alps. Down below are lovely waymarked walks by glacial rivers or through the stunning Breitach gorge. The town itself is a relaxed and reasonably priced tourist spot, popular with German holidaymakers.Oberstdorf has a station and is easily accessed by car or train from Friedrichshafen or Munich airports.oberstdorf.deAlteeGrosser ArberThe highest mountain in the Bavarian Forest, this is a wintersport resort, ideal for families and beginners, but has a couple of black runs, and it also has snowboard railpark. Snow conditions are very reliable, plus it's cheaper than the Alpine resorts and less crowded. It's only a couple of hours by train from Munich airport.visitbavaria.comgermanclairePichelsteinerfest, RegenThe largest and most popular beer festival in the Bavarian Forest \u2013 this year it's on 29 July to 3 August. A highlight is the river floats parade on the Saturday evening, illuminated by candles.pichelsteinerfest.comgermanclaire", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Berlin holidays", "Munich holidays", "Hamburg holidays", "City breaks", "Food and drink", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' tips: the best of Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:04:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "I am always being asked which German town I like best \u2013 and this, on the face of it, completely fair question always freezes me up. Dizzy with pubs, turrets, marketplaces, graveyards and shops selling odd things made from marzipan, I can no longer really tell which was which. Mystic rosebushes, miniature prisons, pulpits shaped like a tulip have all blended into a single demented townscape as the years spent\u00a0wandering happily from place to place now take their mental revenge on me.Taking a grip of myself, however, I will tend to blurt out one word: \"Bamberg\". Now I know that I liked Weikersheim more and felt more peaceful sitting outside a hermit's rock-chapel in Schw\u00e4bisch Gm\u00fcnd, but Bamberg, in Bavaria, was the place that so battered my senses that it made me want to uproot my family and live in Germany.Bamberg is built around seven hills and features the most extraordinary architecture \u2013 the cathedral, for example, crowded with the most vivid and peculiar medieval stone carvings, a monastery enclosing a garden filled with all the flowers and fruit mentioned in the Bible and with a side-chapel which includes the most enjoyable of all German representations of \"dances of death\", with a gleeful, preening, derisive skeleton capering around his victims.Many of the streets are so perfectly gnarled and gabled that you expect the population to all sing from their balconies or do Student Prince-style dances over the town's bridges, rather than merely queue at ATMs or buy sausages. The pubs fuel astonishing levels of drinking \u2013 apparently the highest per capita consumption of beer in Europe and with a real sense that in these roaring, terrible-smelling interiors the entire population is working hard to maintain this pointless eminence.Much of the action is focused on the unique Rauchbier, a local beer created by doing something to malt not viewed as rational in other places. It tastes terrible, but nonetheless gives the drinker such a feeling of localism, camaraderie and warrior strength as to be almost irresistible.The wonderful ETA Hoffmann lived for a while in Bamberg and in so much of the town you feel fully engaged with his macabre spirit \u2013 strange towers, moss-covered walls and inexplicably designed carvings, shop signs and door knockers proliferate. Even secondhand\u00a0bookshops help out with needlessly necromancy-focused window displays.But at the town's sinister \u2013 but pleasurable \u2013 heart lies the spectacular bird hall at the city's Natural History Museum (naturkundemuseum-bamberg.de), which reopened last year after heavy restoration work. This great room preserves miraculously the spirit of the late 18th century, when Bamberg was a semi-independent state and the Enlightenment in full swing.A mass of white and gold paint, the hall has somehow kept all its original fittings, which display stuffed birds, a whale jaw, glass pyramids filled with robin eggs and wax models of every fruit to be found in Bamberg, with everything somehow almost glowing with that era's atmosphere of genial inquiry.I never did get to live in Bamberg, my children skipping over the bridges strewing flower petals, my wife waving and laughing from the balcony of our pub (or, in another scenario, waving and laughing from the balcony of the bird hall curator's no-doubt charming house). But it was the inspiration of Bamberg, as well as my family's sullen refusal to uproot from south-west London, that made me fall back on the second best thing and start writing a book.", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Cultural trips", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "My travels: Simon Winder in Bavaria, Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:05:06Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Leipzig is fast catching Berlin as a setting for innovative arts, particularly the city's Baumwollspinnerei (spinnerei.de), a former factory that now hosts dozens of eclectic galleries and artists' studios. The Spinnerei is the venue for British artist Jim Whiting's Bimbotown Parties (bimbotown.de, next one 2 April), a mix of music, theatre and lots of crazy stuff by artists from all over Europe. Tickets are sought after but some can usually be bought on the door. The cafe at the Galerie f\u00fcr Zeitgen\u00f6ssische Kunst (gfzk.de) is redesigned every two years by artists and called Kafic in its current version after a makeover by artist-architects Apolonija Sustersic and Meike Schalk. Stay in the Meisterzimmer, a room of 116m\u00b2 right in the middle of the Spinnerei (meisterzimmer.de, \u20ac80 for two, \u20ac160 for up to six people).Beer is so much a part of the fabric of life in Germany that it even has a role to play in monastic existence. The best example is the fabulous Weltenburg Benedictine monastery (klosterschenke-weltenburg.de), dramatically sited on a surging bend in the Danube near Regensburg. Here the monks run what is purported to be the oldest brewery in the world, and their dark beer is potent stuff. Visitors sit at tables in the monastery courtyard, quaffing and eating under spreading chestnut trees, and there's always the option of confession, either before or after, in the monastery's bewilderingly over-decorated rococo church.German actress Jessica Schwarz, a 33-year-old former model who is now among the country's acting elite, has somehow found time to convert an old listed building in her home town of Michelstadt into a boutique hotel. Die Tr\u00e4umerei's 17th-century building houses just four chic and individually designed rooms, as well as a cafe (die-traeumerei.com). Michelstadt itself is in the Odenwald forest, and ideally placed for Heidelberg, Germany's stunning university town, as well as being only 45 minutes from Frankfurt airport. From \u20ac135 for a double room.The largest fruit orchard in northern Europe is in the outskirts of Hamburg, and reachable through the city's S-Bahn system. And yet Altes Land, as the name suggests, is still a deeply traditional place, and it is particularly spectacular at blossom time (late April/early May, tourismus-altesland.de). The landscape is carefully preserved and comes complete with some of the finest half-timbered farmhouses in north Germany. Start exploring from the ancient port town of Stade, the terminus of S-Bahn line 3.Hay hotels are a peculiarly German institution, and an excellent old-fashioned adventure. They're at their best in the giant brick-built farmhouses of northern Germany, where the farmer and his stock all used to sleep under one roof. Many of those farms now open their hay barns (with attached bathroom facilities) to cyclists, who weave unhurriedly towards them across Niedersachsen's tapestry of dykes, marshland and heath (niedersachsen-tourism.de/en). This is ideal family cycling country, with big skies, dedicated cycle tracks, farmyard animals galore and minimal overnight costs, which include an immense farmhouse breakfast.Germany may not be a first-choice destination for ardent skiers, but you can't fault the ambition, and the accessibility, of one of its (almost unknown) ski regions. Sauerland, a hilly area east of D\u00fcsseldorf, describes itself as the \"largest snow paradise north of the Alps\", despite its comparatively low peaks and patchy snowfall (wintersport-arena.de). There are more than 120 ski lifts and a lively apr\u00e8s-ski, and it is good for beginners and intermediates. There's lots of entertainment for no-snow days, such as riding the Taxi-Bob, a bobsleigh run that can reach speeds of 80mph.The Mecklenburg lake district (mecklenburg-lakes.com) is a region of a thousand lakes and watercourses about 70km north of Berlin, and is pillowed in soft woodland and rolling agricultural land. These living waterways have long been a mecca for German boating holidays, although their appeal is more akin to the seductiveness of the Norfolk Broads than the drama of the UK's Lake District. Homemade boathouses line the shores, and youngsters still set off on motorised rafts for watery adventures, like something out of Huckleberry Finn. You can rent sophisticated cabin cruisers here too.The city's tradition as a hub for art dates back hundreds of years. In the 20th century, Joseph Beuys set up shop at the prestigious Kunstakademie (Academy of Arts) and the Becher School photography movement gave birth to household names such as Andreas Gursky and Candida H\u00f6fer. The Kunst Palast (smkp.de) and NRW Forum (nrw-forum.de) are key locations for contemporary exhibitions. The latter is currently showing Zeitgeist and Glamour, with works by David Bailey, Diane Arbus and Andy Warhol.The Sorbs are Germany's most enduring ethnic minority, and they've lived in a crescent of land in modern Brandenburg since the sixth century. Here, the Spreewald (spreewald.de) is a watery mosaic of channels, meadows, fields and forests fed by the river Spree, and easily accessible from Berlin. Key towns are L\u00fcbben and Lehde, where a lot of travel (including tours) is still by boat. Gherkins are a big industry for Sorb farmers, and every April the region hosts a unique Spreewald marathon, which involves running, cycling, walking, and paddling. The starting command? \"Auf die Gurke, fertig, los\" (gherkin, steady, go!) \u2013 not something you're likely to hear at the 2012 Olympics.\"Bankfurt\" is not all about gleaming capitalism, for Frankfurt's Main river undergoes a bank-side transformation in summertime to become a large outdoor bar. Favourites such as the Maincaf\u00e9, with its deckchairs and beach vibe, (between Untermainbr\u00fccke und Holbeinsteg) attract a relaxed crowd. Hafenbar (near Alte Br\u00fccke on the north bank of the river) is the beach bar outpost of the Stereobar club, where visitors can bring their own food. And the city's famous King Kamehameha gets down to the river as well in summer with its King Kamehameha Beach Club (king-kamehameha.de).Budapest doesn't have a monopoly on art nouveau baths. M\u00fcller'sches Volksbad, the \"people's spa\" (swm.de/privatkunden/m-baeder) next to Munich's Isar river is a gem, its murals and stucco the polar opposite of today's sleek and stylish spa designs. Opened in Rosenheimer Strasse in 1901, it is named after engineer (and benefactor) Karl M\u00fcller and it has been kept in its original condition. There are two pools, a steam bath and saunas. Early swimmers (doors open at 7.30am) get a discount and pay only \u20ac2.60 instead of \u20ac3.80.When M\u00fcnchner speak affectionately of Die Glocke, they are referring to an area of trendy shops, easy-going cafes and bars in the Glockenbachviertel and G\u00e4rtnerplatzviertel districts. It's a far cry from pricy Maximilianstrasse, the city's Gucci and Prada mile. Try Westerm\u00fchlstrasse and Klenzestrasse for fashion, as well as Eisenbl\u00e4tter-Triska (Hans-Sachs-Strasse 13, eisenblaetter-triska.de) for quirky hat creations, or boutique Kleider machen Leute (Reichenbachstrasse 10, kleidermachenleute-shop.de) for clothes and style advice. There's plenty of nightlife too, from relaxed retro at Trachtenvogl (Reichenbachstrasse 47, trachtenvogl.de) to easy listening, funk, electro, house and soul at Ksar Barclub (M\u00fcllerstrasse 31, ksar-barclub.de). The area is also the centre of Munich's gay community with clubs and bars mainly between Thalkirchnerstrasse and Fraunhoferstrasse.Paddle steamers were once the monarchs of the European river systems, but these days they are rare. Except, of course, if you're in Dresden, that reconstructed jewel of an imperial city, because a whole fleet of old beauties operates from this Florence of the Elbe (saechsische-dampfschiffahrt.de). Decks quivering, funnels billowing, paddles kiss-kissing the water, they thump upriver to the castle at Pillnitz (schloesser-dresden.de), and then onwards into mountainous Saxon Switzerland. From their final destination at Bad Schandau, it is only 45 minutes back to Dresden by train.Man has planted his mucky feet firmly into most corners of this planet, but the sea bed has so far been mainly off-limits. Not so in the vast intertidal zones of the Wadden Sea, those enormous tidal flats on the north coast of Germany, where the ebb tide often retreats as far as 10km. Walking out across these mostly sandy flats is called Wattwandern (wattwandern.de), but there's mud here too, of a quality that spa addicts would pay good money for. On certain tides you can walk right out to the Frisian islands, and then catch a ferry back on the returning tide. Go with a guide.X marks the spot where the AlpspiX viewing platform (zugspitze.de/en/summer/berg/garmisch-classic/alpspix.htm) hangs out over a thousand-metre void in the lee of the 2,962-metre Zugspitze, Germany's highest mountain, in southern Bavaria. Two metal walkways cross arms as they reach out into giddy nothingness, and you need to keep your nerve if you intend to walk the full 42 feet to the end of each, especially when it wobbles. The AlpspiX is reached via the Alpspitze cable car from the ski resort of Garmisch-Partenkirchen, \u20ac22 return.Everyone knows Neuschwanstein, the fairytale Bavarian Schloss that inspired Disneyland's Sleeping Beauty Castle, but millions queue for its (perfunctory) tour every year. Far better to take a hike up Schachen to the King's House (schloesser.bayern.de, admission \u20ac4.50) an extraordinary mountain-top retreat also built by castle-obsessed King Ludwig II of Bavaria, and have its bizarre Turkish-themed salon to yourself. It's a four-hour walk up from the car park at Elmau, near Garmisch-Partenkirchen, and you can overnight for as little as \u20ac10 in the next door Schachenhaus (schachenhaus.de), which also serves hot food and cold beer.We may not have heard of Baiersbronn here in the UK, but this small rural community in the Black Forest is a gourmet valley of international repute. Its nine small villages can boast seven Michelin stars, divided between three chefs. They are Harald Wohlfahrt (Schwarzwaldstube/3 stars, traube-tonbach.de), Claus-Peter Lumpp (Restaurant Bareiss/3 stars, bareiss.com) and J\u00f6rg Sackmann (Schlossberg/1 star, hotel-sackmann.de). If you don't feel like joining the queue for a reservation, Baiersbronn is also a prime hiking destination and ramblers can roam the forests on walks guided by a local chef, who'll reveal nature at its tastiest (baiersbronn.de).The Palatinate region, up against the border with France, is where Germany gets super-excited about food and wine. The German Wine Route runs here, with lots of tastings and good little restaurants. In March, the Mandelbl\u00fcte (almond blossom) makes the hills blush. The Ketschauer Hof (from \u20ac220 for a double room, ketschauer-hof.com) in Deidesheim is a stylish conversion of a winemaker's old manor house. In nearby Speyer, more than 1,500 years old and home of the Unesco-recognised Speyerer Dom (imperial cathedral), visitors can explore the city's rich history on a culinary walking tour (\u20ac52 per person, fourth Friday of every month, speyer.de), stopping off at different restaurants for each course of their three-course meal.Put your pedal to the metal on Germany's original grand prix track, the N\u00fcrburgring (nurburgring.de), a looping circuit through the forested Eifel hills. The 14-mile Nordschleife includes 73 right-angle bends and was used as a Formula One circuit until the cars simply became too fast for it. When Niki Lauda was badly injured in 1976 the drivers refused to compete there again, with Jackie Stewart christening it \"green hell\". These days you can drive around it yourself in your own car and see whether you agree, but just don't get distracted by the scenery.The Oktoberfest has lots of siblings all over the country, and it doesn't always have to be about beer. A reliable way to get pleasantly beschwipst (tipsy \u2013 good word!) is by mixing fruit and alcohol. German summertime favourite Erdbeerbowle (a mix of white wine, sparkling wine and strawberries) is a great beschwipst-er and is best enjoyed on a warm evening at the Wilhelmstrassenfest street festival in elegant spa town Wiesbaden (this year from 2-4 June, wiesbaden.de). If you must have beer, the Bergkirchweih festival in Erlangen (9-20 June, erlangen.de), dates back to the 18th century. And Bamberg, beer city par excellence, hosts the Sandkerwa (25-29 August, bamberg.info), when the output of the city's own eight breweries is supplemented by the arrival of outside beer makers, who set up stalls in the old city.The UK and Germany share a love of gardens. Schleswig-Holstein's \"Garden trails between the seas\" (the North Sea and the Baltic Sea) is a selection of nine routes that can be covered by bike (best, it's flat here!) or car (sh-tourismus.de/en/garden-trails). Each route takes in 10 different gardens and parks plus stopovers in tree nurseries or garden cafes. Apart from discovering northern German garden culture, it's a fantastic way to explore a region that is usually off the radar for Brits.Andrew Eames and Barbara Geier are editors of germanyiswunderbar.com", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Munich holidays", "Frankfurt holidays", "Dresden holidays", "Boating holidays", "Cultural trips", "Food and drink", "Short breaks", "City breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Wunderbar! The best of Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-18T12:29:32Z", "country": "germany", "content": "One of the biggest recent news stories in Germany involved a plagiarism scandal that brought down the defence minister, Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg. Perhaps this is a fitting moment, therefore, to recall another case of plagiarism that rocked the literary world at the beginning of 2010.The debut novel by the Berlin author Helene Hegemann, who was 18 at the time, had the unusual title of Axolotl Roadkill and made headlines with its depiction of a teenage girl's drug-addled adventures in Berlin's club scene. But the author found herself attracting headlines of an entirely unwelcome kind when it was revealed that she had borrowed liberally from other writers, including a blogger who goes by the name Airen. The initial enthusiasm for the book quickly melted away, and some critics may have wondered how they had allowed themselves to get caught up in the hysteria over what turned out to be a minor literary event.Perhaps that's why a large swath of German readers are pleased that there is at least one person who never loses his cool, namely the former chancellor Helmut Schmidt. Four of his non-fiction works are among the 10 most successful books of the past 10 years, including Unser Jahrhundert (\"Our Century\"), a conversation with the historian Fritz Stern, which was published in 2010. In Germany it's no longer the pope or J\u00fcrgen Habermas who satisfies the country's yearning for moral guidance, but Schmidt. The former chancellor is depicted on the jacket of Unser Jahrhundert holding his ever-present cigarette, something that is also part of his aura: he not only defies the zeitgeist in his opinions, he even flouts the advice of the medical establishment.The grand old man of German politics would probably frown on another class of author that has proved popular in Germany in recent years: the self-deprecating egocentric. They write entirely about their own experiences from an ironic perspective, and churn out tongue-in-cheek books about such diverse topics as getting old, snoring and having children. One of the most successful works of the genre is the recent Achtung Baby! (\"Look Out Baby!\") by the comedian Michael Mittermeier. For his generation, it seems, becoming a father is not so much a normal biological process as a lifestyle choice.Thomas Hettche also focused on the theme of family in his novel Die Liebe der V\u00e4ter (\"The Love of the Fathers\"), which deals with the relationship between a father and his estranged daughter. Literary critics welcomed the book, partly because its publication coincided with a landmark decision on custody law by Germany's highest court. But Hettche's novel suffered the same fate as Hegemann's book \u2013 only a few weeks after its publication, the critics began to find fault with it.The daughter in Hettche's novel is portrayed as a modern child who spends much of her time texting and listening to her iPod. What could be more shocking than to go without the tools of modern communication? In Ohne Netz (\"Without the Internet\"), Alex R\u00fchle writes about his \"half year offline\". As it happens, this type of \"self-experiment\" has become increasingly popular among German non-fiction authors, who try to live strictly in accordance with the Bible, say, or forgo sex completely.One of the standout works in the genre is Karen Duve's Anst\u00e4ndig essen (\"Eating Properly: How I Tried to Become a Better Person\"), in which the author tries out a variety of green-tinged diets such as vegetarianism and veganism. The result is not so much a polemic as a personal investigation into the food industry and factory farming. In Germany, where there are now plans to build the largest poultry slaughterhouse in Europe, with the capacity for slaughtering 130m chickens a year, it makes sense to be more aware of the side effects of industrial-scale breeding, fattening and killing. The book seemed to be Germany's contribution to a discussion on the ethics of eating sparked by the publication of Jonathan Safran Foer's Eating Animals.Much more controversial \u2013 and successful \u2013 was Thilo Sarrazin's Deutschland schafft sich ab (\"Germany Does Away With Itself\"). This treatise by a former Bundesbank board member is \u2013 to put it mildly \u2013 highly critical of immigration and Muslims, who he claims are threatening the very fabric of German society. The tremendous success of Sarrazin's theories says a lot about the way society is going in Germany, where even the liberal chattering classes unashamedly complain there are \"too many foreigners\" in their kids' schools.Sarrazin's book sold more than 1m copies, contributing significantly to a year-on-year rise in the sales of non-fiction books of 20%. The fiction market, on the other hand, was extremely weak. The bestseller lists are dominated by globally successful fantasy authors such as Stephenie Meyer, or by crime fiction writers such as Britain's Simon Beckett and the American author Elizabeth George.More challenging fare was provided by Melinda Nadj Abonji. Her novel Tauben fliegen auf (\"Falcons without Falconers\"), a family drama about Yugoslavian immigrants in Switzerland, won the 2010 German Book Prize, Germany's answer to the Booker. But unlike previous winners by authors such as Katharina Hacker, Julia Franck and Uwe Tellkamp \u2013 all reliable suppliers of highly marketable light novels for a moderately demanding reading public \u2013 Abonji's novel was a commercial disaster, just reaching number 50 on the bestseller list shortly before Christmas.New books by G\u00fcnter Grass and Christa Wolf reminded us that there were once such things as great German writers. Gruppe 47 (Group 47), a literary association that influenced an entire era and encompassed the country's best authors, disbanded long ago. Which author under 60 could play that role today? Thomas Lehr, perhaps, whose September. Fata Morgana is a linguistic tour de force set in the aftermath of 9/11 and is both celebrated and controversial. Pedantic critics derided it for not having a single punctuation mark (despite the full stop in the title), as if punctuation has anything to do with literature.Next to Lehr's book, the most striking work in stylistic terms was Peter Wawerzinek's Rabenliebe (\"Motherless Child\"). The autobiographical novel seems almost anachronistic, like something from the days when lederhosen-wearing poets declaimed at open windows. The fact that this powerful writer grew up in the communist German Democratic Republic will perhaps encourage some East German intellectuals to claim that the workers' state was a republic of scholars. But anyone who has read Rabenliebe knows that it was a cold, brutal childhood that prompted Wawerzinek to escape into literature.Today the former East Germany is on the road to becoming the Wild East for writers from the west. In Deutschboden (\"On German Soil\"), described as an exercise in \"participatory observation\", Moritz von Uslar spends time with the natives of a Brandenburg village, while Wolfgang Herrndorf's Tschick dispatches two adolescents through the same state in a stolen Lada. The latter was a surprise success.Readers may be wondering at this point whether Basil Fawlty's famous dictum \"Don't mention the war\" also applies to contemporary German literature. But one current literary sensation is a previously almost forgotten novel that deals with the Nazi era. Jeder stirbt f\u00fcr sich allein (\"Every Man Dies Alone\") by Hans Fallada (1893-1947) is the story of a Berlin couple executed by the Nazis; it was recently republished in Germany in its original version. Like the liberation from Hitler in 1945, Germans can also thank the Allies for giving them Fallada's novel back: its republication was inspired by the book's tremendous success in Britain and the United States (as Alone in Berlin).1 Hummeldumm by Tommy Jaud (comic novel about German holidaymakers in Namibia)2 Erbarmen (Mercy) by Jussi Adler-Olsen (Danish crime)3 Fall of Giants by Ken Follett (five families in the first world war)4 The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner by Stephenie Meyer5 Deutschland schafft sich ab (Germany Does Away with Itself) by Thilo\u00a0Sarrazin", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Germany", "Culture", "Fiction", "Biography", "Politics"], "title": "What they're reading in Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-14T09:26:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "9.24am: Guten Morgen! As part of the Guardian's month-long Europe season, I'm live blogging today from the Hamburg offices of Der Spiegel, Germany's most celebrated news magazine. Der Spiegel has long been a German institution and is essential reading for anyone who wants to understand Germany or German politics, so it should be a good base.The Guardian's editor-in-chief, Alan Rusbridger sets out the purpose of our Europe series here. \"Too often Europe is discussed and reported through its common institutions or purely in terms of its relations with Britain,\" he writes.Here are a few highlights of our coverage today: We've got the results of a Europe-wide ICM poll that shows trust in politicians at rock bottom around Europe \u2013 and the lack of trust is greatest in Poland and France.Today's focus is on Germany and we have a provocative comment piece  from Hans-Olaf Henkel, a former president of the Federation of German Industries, who argues that the euro should be split in two \u2013 a northern zone with a strong adherence to \"monetary and budgetary stability, and a southern zone that would reflect a \"free-spending mentality and talent for monetary improvisation\". And the headline of the day award goes to this piece about German theatre by Guardian critic Michael Billington, \"Don't mention the phwoar\".You can read the rest of the Guardian's coverage here. Later today, I'm interviewing Der Spiegel's editor-in-chief, Georg Mascolo.I want to ask him about Angela Merkel, WikiLeaks' revelations, and Der Spiegel's relationship with Julian Assange. (Unlike the Guardian and New York Times, Der Spiegel is still on friendly terms with the WikiLeaks founder.) You can find the Guardian's coverage from Germany today here. Spiegel Online is currently leading with the latest explosion at the Japanese nuclear reactor in Fukushima.9.30am: Morning conference in the offices of Spiegel Online has just got under way. The main theme of discussion is Japan and the rapidly worsening situation at the Fukushima reactor. There's a view among Spiegel journalists that the Japanese government is deliberately underplaying the scale of the crisis in order to prevent panic breaking out among Japan's population. Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron, Spiegel's chief editor, puts it like this: \"These are historic days. The news we've had in the last few minutes suggests that the nuclear reactor's core could be heading for a meltdown.\"9.54am: There's a knock on the door. Urgent news from Berlin: the German government has decided to review the decision to prolong the country's nuclear reactor programme. The catastrophe in Japan has provoked a massive debate about what to do with Germany's own ageing nuclear power stations. The Greens and Social Democrats want the stations to be phased out immediately (remember Atomkraft? Nein Danke!). But Angela Merkel's coalition government recently decided to keep them in service. The government now seems to be having a major wobble.More discussion in the Spiegel conference about how to cover the events in Japan. There's much praise for Spiegel's hastily employed Japanese translator. And apparently an amateur scientist in Tokyo is running round posting live radiation levels on Facebook.10.26am: Conference is over and I'm now installed on the sixth floor of Spiegel Online's offices in Hamburg. Just across the road is the historic building where the main Spiegel magazine is based. The 11-storey block was built in the 1960s and is justifiably famous: its canteen is decorated in lurid oranges and reds. It looks like something out of the film Barbarella. Jule Lutteroth, Spiegel Online's deputy editor-in-chief, tells me there used to be an equally funky swimming pool in the basement. Now, boringly, it houses Spiegel's archives. (Each floor was decorated with its own colour scheme: journalists working on foreign news sat in rooms painted in a hideous dark blue. They eventually demanded a new colour scheme.) Der Spiegel, Spiegel Online and Spiegel TV are moving in August to a new building just down the road. This may be progress, but this modern penthouse is duller than Spiegel's old home.11.20am: I've just had a fascinating chat with Olaf Kanter, Spiegel Online's managing editor. Unlike in Britain, where the newspaper industry seems to be in its death throes, Der Spiegel is making a healthy profit, he tells me. Germany's advertising industry recovered strongly in the second half of last year, he says, and the magazine is selling about 1m copies every week. And it's not only German newspapers doing well: the car-makers BMW, Mercedes, and VW are all posting record profits. \"We haven't suffered like England. You have a much bigger financial services industry. We build more things. Our exports have rescued us,\" Kanter says. Generally, Germans seems much more optimistic than Brits. One of my old friends in Hamburg, Stefan Schaefer, works for the travel agency Travel Overland. We had dinner last night in one of Hamburg's cheap and cheerful Turkish restaurants; he's busier than ever, he says.12.03pm: Another dramatic development: Der Spiegel has decided to pull its reporter out of Tokyo because of the risk a Chernobyl-style radiation cloud could reach the Japanese capital. Thilo Thielke, Spiegel's veteran war correspondent, is leaving Japan today. Spiegel is now covering the story from Bangkok and the south of Japan. Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron says the latest information is ominous: the wind is blowing from the north \u2013 in the direction of Tokyo. \"Perhaps this is a piece of German angst. But no country is more against nuclear power than Germany,\" he says. He adds: \"The wind is shifting from the north and could blow a cloud south directly to Tokyo. This is really horrible. I think this is a big, big crisis and a wake-up call for nuclear energy.\" The German embassy is also making preparations to evacuate some staff, apparently.12.06pm: There is good coverage of Japan in Spiegel Online International, Spiegel's English language window. In an opinion piece Rolland Nelles, a one-time fan of nuclear energy, says in the wake of Fukushima German chancellor Angela Merkel (pictured) will be forced to modify her pro-nuclear stance. He writes:Even the last remaining advocates of the technology must realise that we can't go on like this. It is over. Done. Finished. Nuclear energy cannot be controlled by humans, no matter how good the arguments might be in its favour. The danger of disaster is real, and it can happen at any time \u2013 even in a super hi-tech country like Japan. And it could also happen here in Germany. A sense of security when it comes to atomic reactors is no longer possible. Not anywhere.12.19pm: A few non-Japan stories caught my eye this morning. The German tabloids all report on a driver high on drugs who ploughed into a group of pedestrians in Hamburg yesterday afternoon, killing four of them. One of the victims was Dietmar Mues, an actor in the popular and long-running German police series Tatort (Crime Scene). His wife Sibylle also died. The accident took place in Eppendorf, an affluent part of Hamburg. (I know the area well: my best friend in Hamburg, Michael Fleischer, had an aunt who lived nearby.) Bild Zeitung calls it a \"horror-accident\" (German only).Oh, and a gang of punks are apparently stealing Hamburg's dogs. They have so far made off with a three-month-old bulldog, Joker, as well as a labrador, Buddy, and a sheepdog-mongrel Milo, Bild says.12.58pm: I'm about to try out Spiegel's legendary canteen over the road. But before I go off and grab a Br\u00f6tchen I ask Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron about relations between Germany and England. (In 2006 I wrote an essay arguing the World Cup had transformed Germany's image in the eyes of the British media, and ordinary Brits. The Nazi cliches were over, more or less, I suggested.) Mathias tells me that the Germans don't feel schadenfreude at Britain's current economic woes. He says: \"You have a tricky and difficult situation. David Cameron has to see through a public sector cuts programme of unheard of proportions. I'm surprised there isn't a revolution in Britain going on. We don't like to see other European countries suffer, especially not Britain. I love London. I'm often in Britain. What would Europe do without British newspapers like the Economist, Guardian and FT?\"Der Spiegel hasn't nailed down its plans yet, but is almost certainly going to cover next month's royal wedding. It may even do a live-ticker! Could Der Spiegel be more interested in the royal wedding than the republican Guardian?2.28pm: The Spiegel canteen lived up to its billing! The decor with its space-age ceiling lamps and funky wall balls is a breathtaking piece of 60s modernist kitsch. The chips aren't bad either. Verner Panton is the man who designed it. You can see more examples of his work here on Flickr .The canteen is due to close, alas, in five months' time when Spiegel moves house.I'm off to see Georg Mascolo, Spiegel's editor-in-chief. I'll report back shortly.3.13pm: I talked to Georg Mascolo for 20 minutes \u2013 not bad, given the huge running story in Japan. I asked Mascolo about Julian Assange (pictured) and WikiLeaks. (Assange collaborated with the Guardian, New York Times and Der Spiegel in the release of secret US state department cables last year, as well as war logs from Iraq and Afghanistan. He is no longer on speaking terms with the Guardian and New York Times teams.Mascolo says of Assange: \"He's a very interesting guy. I always thought he might end up running Facebook or Google rather than WikiLeaks. I think we can admire the achievements. We all see his very difficult personality.\" The Spiegel editor-in-chief recalls a tense meeting last November when Assange threatened to boot the Guardian and New York Times out of the newspaper consortium publishing the secret US government communiques. \"There was a moment when he decided only Spiegel would go ahead with printing the cables. I refused and said I was very happy with the relationship with the New York Times and Guardian. We would not accept any split with our group.\"Two Spiegel journalists, Marcel Rosenbach and Holger Stark, have written a German-language book about WikiLeaks, currently on Germany's non-fiction bestseller list.3.28pm: Mascolo also had some interesting things to say about the media industry. He doesn't believe that newspapers should give away their content. Much of Spiegel's success \u2013 it posted huge profits last year \u2013 is due to the fact that Spiegel Online and the Spiegel magazine have almost entirely different editorial content, he says. (Spiegel Online posts only four or five articles from the weekly print edition. Its editorial operation is separate.) Mascolo politely criticises the Guardian's online model, where you can read all the paper's content for free. He says: \"We decided years ago to raise the price for the magazine. It's already \u20ac4 (\u00a33). You might say this is a lot of money but it isn't much more than a cafe latte in Starbucks. I don't believe in journalism for free. I believe if you want to have good quality you have to pay for it.\"3.38pm: Thanks for all your comments about my \"liquid lunch\"! I can assure you I haven't drunk anything stronger than tea since arriving in Hamburg on Sunday.Breaking news: Angela Merkel has just announced a three-month \"delay\" on the German government's decision to extend the lifespan of Germany's ageing nuclear power plants. Her move is clearly in response to events in Japan. But it also appears to be linked to regional elections later this month in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg (and two other federal states) where Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) are running neck and neck with the centre-left Social Democrats. The CDU has controlled Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg for almost 60 years; losing it would be an enormous blow to Merkel's coalition. The nuclear power station debate has dominated the election campaign (German only).4.19pm: My colleague Juan Gomez from El Pais has taken this photo of Mascolo's office on the 11th-floor of Spiegel Towers. There is an amazing panoramic view of the city. On Mascolo's wall is a sign saying: \"Keep calm and carry on.\" He also has a cushion in the colours of the German flag with the words: \"Geld allein macht nicht gl\u00fccklich!\" (Money alone doesn't make you happy!) on a black leather sofa.According to Mascolo, Merkel has every chance of winning Germany's next general election in 2013, despite today's embarrassing U-turn over nuclear energy. \"I don't think she's going anywhere anytime soon,' he says. Merkel's biggest failing, he suggests, is that after seven years as chancellor she has still not properly explained her vision for Germany. Mascolo also says Guido Westerwelle, Germany's foreign minister, is doing better after a disappointing first two years in the job. Unlike British foreign secretary William Hague, Westerwelle \u2013 the leader of Germany's pro-business FDP party \u2013 has had a \"good\" Arab revolution. He has spoken passionately in favour of democracy in the Arab world, though Germany as a whole is opposed to any kind of military intervention in Libya or elsewhere. I'm interviewing Westerwelle on Thursday and will form my own view then.4.55pm: It's been a good day to be live blogging in Germany: after decades of debate the Germans really do appear (unlike the French) to be calling time on their nuclear energy industry. The subject is the top of the political agenda here and today's events in Japan will ensure that it stays there. I spent four years in Germany as the Guardian's correspondent in Berlin (2003-2006) before moving to Russia, from where I was recently, and unhappily, expelled. I've always been struck by how the Germans manage to do things more successfully than the Brits. Today's visit to Der Spiegel has merely confirmed this view. German newspapers are still hugely profitable, (ours are virtually bankrupt) and there seems to be a view here that both journalists and journalism has a future. The German economy has already recovered, while ours is mired in gloom.The Guardian will be covering Germany for the rest of this week as part our month-long Europe season. After that it's on to France, from where Alexandra Topping will be live blogging from Monday. Thanks for all your comments and Tsch\u00fcss! ", "tags": ["Europe", "World news", "Germany", "Media", "Magazines"], "title": "New Europe live blog - Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:04:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Experience the beauty of the Amazon and learn about its wildlife, ecology and complexity at this magical attraction \u2013 inside a 30m-high old gasometer. It features a giant 360\u00b0 panoramic recreation of the rainforest. Bring or hire binoculars so you can spot animals in the 'forest' \u2013 and listen out for their calls. It's a great combination of originality and information.Richard-Lehman Strasse 114, +49 341 35 55 340, asisi.de; entrance \u20ac10 adults, \u20ac5 childrenLesley46Dachgarten at the ReichstagAvoid the queues at the Reichstag for the price of breakfast by booking online at the restaurant Dachgarten. Go straight to the front of any queue to get into the Reichstag and tell them you have booked breakfast, get your name checked off the list by the guards and get escorted through security by your personal escort to the lift that carries you to the restaurant at the foot of the glass dome. Terrific breakfast (and we are vegetarian) and then we had the run of the dome and fabulous views over Berlin. Awesome. Platz der Republik 1, +49 30 2262 9933, bundestag.deLilianhandyEast Side GalleryIt's a 1.3km length of the Berlin Wall with amazing artwork, recently restored. Pollution and graffiti ruined the first lot so get to see it before this happens again.M\u00fchlenstrasse 1, eastsidegallery.comtheairsZwiebelfischWith the demise of Gainsbourg (it's been turned into a supermarket) there's only Zwiebelfisch and Diener flying the flag for old Berlin in this chic square between the K'Damm (Kurf\u00fcrstendamm) and Kantstrasse. Once a hotbed of revolutionary chatter, it's now a very laidback joint that seems totally at ease with itself. Papered in thousands of posters and old photos, it's got a chilled-out vibe thanks in no small measure to the genial owner, a veteran of West Berlin's pre-1989 counter culture. Zwiebelfisch, incidentally, is an old printing expression meaning a letter printed in the wrong font.Savignyplatz 7, +49 30 312 73 63, zwiebelfisch-berlin.deTimETempelhof airportThis now-disused terminal is the third largest building in the world, and the scale is breathtaking, in particular the vast arrivals hall, which was designed by Ernst Sagebiel. He worked in the same offices as Albert Speer, Hitler's architect. It is that worrying link with the past that makes walking through the site all the more interesting. It is particularly eerie now it is empty but there are plenty of reminders of the airport's previous life as a major international terminal and the role it played in the 1948 Berlin Airlift. The US military used it as a base during the cold war, from 1945, and their old offices are left exactly as they were immediately after their departure in 1993. Brilliant.+49 30 6091 1660, berlin-airport.de; the airport tour lasts two hours and costs \u20ac8ppJGNaughtonX-Terrain barGreat little cellar bar in Oranienburger Strasse. Go down the steps and be greeted by the bowler-hatted Ian Dury-esque owner/designer of this DIY retro establishment. Homemade artworks and paraphenalia adorn the brick walls, candles drip wax over their holders \u2013 soak up the smoke-filled ambience and Rolling Stones grooves. Relax on a big-armed sofa and discuss the Tacheles art collective (just along the road) over a Berliner Weisse, green or red. A real taste of creative, underground Berlin.Oranienburger Strasse 40WillJohnson747Strand Pauli Beach ClubStrand Pauli is one of several beach clubs in Hamburg with a great view of the river Elbe. It's near Landungsbr\u00fccken, just 15 minutes from the Hauptbahnhof, Hamburg's central train station. Here you will find good music, German beer and food direct from the barbecue. Relax on comfortable beach furniture under palm trees with your toes in the sand, which is brought each summer from the North Sea coast.Hafenstrasse 89, +49 163 733 58 32, strandpauli.deEppendorferLake DistrictDespite being only a short car or train journey from Berlin, the idyllic region around the Scharm\u00fctzelsee and its smaller lakes is as off the beaten track, as reasonably priced and untouristy as they come. You can pamper yourself in the thermal brine spas at Bad Saarow, spend the night in the opulent surroundings of the fairytale Schloss Hubertush\u00f6he, a former royal hunting lodge, or just take in the unspoilt beaches, woodland and wildlife.Bad Saarow spa, +49 33 631 8680, bad-saarow.de; Schloss Hubertush\u00f6he, hubertushoehe.deBurgermeisterschechThe AldstadtThe city that gave us Kraftwerk also gave us some of the finest beer in the world. The Altstadt is crammed with traditional German beerhalls selling the renowned Altbier. This top-fermented ale is best sampled in the four brewpubs, each with their own distinctive tipple served from the barrel. The oldest is Schumacher, not far from the station, and the other three \u2013 the F\u00fcchschen, Schl\u00fcssel and Uerige \u2013 are in the Altstadt.Oststrasse 123, +49 21 1828 9020, schumacher-alt.deTroutiemcfishWein und Biersh\u00e4nkeFamous for its Flammkuchen and Neuwein, the Sh\u00e4nke restaurant has been satisfying the hunger of both locals and tourists since 1982. The friendly atmosphere is great for any type of gathering, with its flea-market decor and wooden beams.Flammkuchen is a huge rectangular slice of deliciousness, traditionally topped with bacon and onion. It's similar to the humble pizza, but has a sauce made of quark (a type of cheese) instead of tomato. My favourite is half topped with feta and jalape\u00f1os, with the other half covered in mushrooms, onions, sweetcorn and kidney beans. Its non-alcoholic KiBa cocktail (half cherry-half banana) is my favourite accompaniment, except for in September and October, when the sweet-tasting Neuwein is in season.N\u00e4he Dom, Wollstrasse 7-9, +49 62 412 4919, weinundbierschaenke.deemilyreactsCafe BeegCafe Beeg is an old-school German cafe, with a formal atmosphere, delicious food, cakes and coffee. Children are welcomed \u2013 they warmed our daughter's baby meal and brought it out on a silver serving dish \u2013 and the cakes are to die for.Cafe Beeg, Gernsbacherstrasse 44-46, +49 72 213 6760NimitzThe vast Bodensee in south-east Germany is an undiscovered gem to us Brits. Base yourself in the popular island town of Lindau and stroll around the old quarter before heading out to explore the lakeside. You can cycle or walk southwards along the lake to Bregenz in Austria (having a dip in the \"See\" along the way), or take one of the many boats or catamarans across to Konstanz or Rorschach in Switzerland. Venture inland from Lindau and hike up to the top of the Pf\u00e4nder for breath-taking views. Try out the hip Youth Hostel situated on the lakeside in Lindau.Lindau Youth Hostel, +49 83 82 96 710, jugendherberge.de/jh/bayern/lindau/welshlynRiver-surf at the EisbachDespite being far from the ocean, Munich has a reputation as a surfing hotspot. It is highly entertaining to watch local surfers riding the artificial wave. When you have had enough, take a stroll in the English Garden and stop at the Chinese Tower beer garden for a bite to eat and a local beer. Bliss. The Eisbach (artificial river) at the Haus der Kunst, by the English Garden NinnytendoCafe SoloOnly one hour south of Munich by car or train, on the banks of the river Isar, Cafe Solo is a friendly, English-speaking bar and restaurant. The enchiladas are fabulous, as is the \"steak vital\" \u2013 succulent pork loins served with rice. Alternatively, relax on the covered, heated terrace overlooking the bridge and the quaint 12th-century town of Bad Tolz, with its famous mural that lines the main street, sipping a wheatbeer.K\u00f6nigsdorfer Strasse 2, cafe-solo.euArcweldThe Nebelhorn/Breitach gorgeGorgeous Oberstdorf is in the Alpine southern toe of Germany and the cable car ride up to the mountain top gives amazing views across the Alps. Down below are lovely waymarked walks by glacial rivers or through the stunning Breitach gorge. The town itself is a relaxed and reasonably priced tourist spot, popular with German holidaymakers.Oberstdorf has a station and is easily accessed by car or train from Friedrichshafen or Munich airports.oberstdorf.deAlteeGrosser ArberThe highest mountain in the Bavarian Forest, this is a wintersport resort, ideal for families and beginners, but has a couple of black runs, and it also has snowboard railpark. Snow conditions are very reliable, plus it's cheaper than the Alpine resorts and less crowded. It's only a couple of hours by train from Munich airport.visitbavaria.comgermanclairePichelsteinerfest, RegenThe largest and most popular beer festival in the Bavarian Forest \u2013 this year it's on 29 July to 3 August. A highlight is the river floats parade on the Saturday evening, illuminated by candles.pichelsteinerfest.comgermanclaire", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Berlin holidays", "Munich holidays", "Hamburg holidays", "City breaks", "Food and drink", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' tips: the best of Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:04:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "I am always being asked which German town I like best \u2013 and this, on the face of it, completely fair question always freezes me up. Dizzy with pubs, turrets, marketplaces, graveyards and shops selling odd things made from marzipan, I can no longer really tell which was which. Mystic rosebushes, miniature prisons, pulpits shaped like a tulip have all blended into a single demented townscape as the years spent\u00a0wandering happily from place to place now take their mental revenge on me.Taking a grip of myself, however, I will tend to blurt out one word: \"Bamberg\". Now I know that I liked Weikersheim more and felt more peaceful sitting outside a hermit's rock-chapel in Schw\u00e4bisch Gm\u00fcnd, but Bamberg, in Bavaria, was the place that so battered my senses that it made me want to uproot my family and live in Germany.Bamberg is built around seven hills and features the most extraordinary architecture \u2013 the cathedral, for example, crowded with the most vivid and peculiar medieval stone carvings, a monastery enclosing a garden filled with all the flowers and fruit mentioned in the Bible and with a side-chapel which includes the most enjoyable of all German representations of \"dances of death\", with a gleeful, preening, derisive skeleton capering around his victims.Many of the streets are so perfectly gnarled and gabled that you expect the population to all sing from their balconies or do Student Prince-style dances over the town's bridges, rather than merely queue at ATMs or buy sausages. The pubs fuel astonishing levels of drinking \u2013 apparently the highest per capita consumption of beer in Europe and with a real sense that in these roaring, terrible-smelling interiors the entire population is working hard to maintain this pointless eminence.Much of the action is focused on the unique Rauchbier, a local beer created by doing something to malt not viewed as rational in other places. It tastes terrible, but nonetheless gives the drinker such a feeling of localism, camaraderie and warrior strength as to be almost irresistible.The wonderful ETA Hoffmann lived for a while in Bamberg and in so much of the town you feel fully engaged with his macabre spirit \u2013 strange towers, moss-covered walls and inexplicably designed carvings, shop signs and door knockers proliferate. Even secondhand\u00a0bookshops help out with needlessly necromancy-focused window displays.But at the town's sinister \u2013 but pleasurable \u2013 heart lies the spectacular bird hall at the city's Natural History Museum (naturkundemuseum-bamberg.de), which reopened last year after heavy restoration work. This great room preserves miraculously the spirit of the late 18th century, when Bamberg was a semi-independent state and the Enlightenment in full swing.A mass of white and gold paint, the hall has somehow kept all its original fittings, which display stuffed birds, a whale jaw, glass pyramids filled with robin eggs and wax models of every fruit to be found in Bamberg, with everything somehow almost glowing with that era's atmosphere of genial inquiry.I never did get to live in Bamberg, my children skipping over the bridges strewing flower petals, my wife waving and laughing from the balcony of our pub (or, in another scenario, waving and laughing from the balcony of the bird hall curator's no-doubt charming house). But it was the inspiration of Bamberg, as well as my family's sullen refusal to uproot from south-west London, that made me fall back on the second best thing and start writing a book.", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Cultural trips", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "My travels: Simon Winder in Bavaria, Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-18T17:40:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": "When it came to the crunch, Chancellor Angela Merkel and her foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, decided that Germany should side with China and Russia. These three members of the UN security council abstained from Thursday's vote on a resolution to impose a no-fly zone over Libya, along with Brazil and India. It is a curious political development, to say the least.The three make for strange bedfellows. There is Germany, a democracy which puts great store in the rule of law and human rights, siding with a communist, one-party dictatorship and a country with a dubious track record on political freedoms. On the other side are Germany's traditional allies \u2013 the US, France and Britain \u2013 not to mention parts of the Arab and African world. Lebanon had been one of the countries presenting the resolution, which was backed by the Arab League. Qatar and the UAE have already said they would take part in a military operation, according to UN diplomats.And despite the Libyan regime's move on Friday afternoon to declare a ceasefire \u2013 at least for now \u2013 and inviting international observers into the country, Berlin's move could have lasting repercussions. Although Berlin has not blocked military action by abstaining, the German government has marginalised itself. It is effectively telling its allies: You will have to deal with this one alone \u2013 we're not going to help you.The German position, which had been agreed between Merkel and Westerwelle, had been clear for days. As a concession to its allies, Berlin will now beef up its mission in Afghanistan. There is talk of Germany taking part in AWACS surveillance flights over the country, which would take pressure off Germany's allies and free up their aircraft for operations over Libya. But is it enough?Some politicians within Merkel's centre-right coalition are already warning that Germany could be drifting even further away from France, Britain and the US. Attitudes toward Germany will change as a result of the vote, says Ruprecht Polenz, a member of parliament for Merkel's conservatives who heads up the Bundestag's foreign affairs committee. \"I don't think we've heard the last word on this,\" he said, pointing out that the EU had already announced its support for the resolution. Germany will also participate in a discussion about the resolution within the EU and Nato, Polenz said.It's clear that Westerwelle enjoys playing the role of Germany's pacifist-in-chief. Speaking in his office in Berlin on Friday morning, he justified his scepticism about a military intervention yet again. The German government sees \"significant dangers and risks\", he said, meaning that it could not support the whole resolution.Westerwelle has been striking exactly that tone for weeks now. At first, his stance earned him praise, even from the opposition. But now, given the risk that Libyan rebels could be massacred by Gaddafi's troops if they do not receive military help, Westerwelle's position seems oddly out of touch with reality. Merkel and Westerwelle apparently hope that the German \"nein\" will go down well with the electorate. That may well be the case. But within Nato, Berlin's abstention is likely to be perceived as showing a lack of solidarity with Germany's allies.Indeed, it seems as if the Merkel-Westerwelle duo have become trapped by their own position.When the insurgency against Gaddafi broke out, Westerwelle promptly stated his support for the repressed opposition. Earlier, he had initially been cautious before making any pronouncements about Tunisia and Egypt, but in the case of Libya, he quickly called out Gaddafi as a dictator, and argued in favour of EU-level sanctions against the regime in Tripoli.But when Gaddafi proved hard to topple, and his troops began a counteroffensive, retaking one city after another, Westerwelle didn't prove any more flexible in his stance. Over time, his scepticism about a no-fly zone grew into a firm \"no\". And as Britain and France lobbied for military action, a resurgent Gaddafi praised Germany's position. That fact alone should have been deeply embarrassing for Berlin.By then, at the very latest, Westerwelle and Merkel ought to have shifted their positions. Besides, by that point, the Arab states had already said they would actively participate in a no-fly zone \u2013 one of the main pre-conditions Westerwelle himself had stipulated for any UN mandate.Nevertheless, Merkel and Westerwelle stuck to their positions. In recent days, Westerwelle even intensified the tenor of his rhetoric. However, his target was not Gaddafi but, indirectly, London and Paris. Washington, for its part, had long remained undecided. Speaking on Friday morning, Westerwelle also reiterated a statement he has oft repeated in recent days: \"German soldiers will not participate in a military mission in Libya.\"It's exactly the kind of sentence that former German Chancellor Gerhard Schr\u00f6der of the centre-left Social Democratic party (SPD) might have used. During the last Iraq war, he adopted early on the position that Germany would not participate \u2013 right in the middle of a national election campaign in 2002.Westerwelle surely had similar considerations on his mind. After all, there is considerable scepticism regarding overseas military operations among the German population, and particularly amid the members of the upper-middle class who tend to vote for his business-friendly Free Democratic party. At the beginning of the year, Westerwelle's position as FDP leader looked shaky amid internal opposition. But he managed to stabilise his situation after the FDP's decent performance in elections in the city-state of Hamburg. Now the FDP faces elections this weekend in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt. A week later, pivotal votes take place in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg and Rhineland-Palatinate in western Germany that could have implications for Merkel's and Westerwelle's coalition government.Now Westerwelle is taking his cue from Schr\u00f6der, and he clearly thinks this is a recipe for domestic political success. But Schr\u00f6der was better positioned in 2002 \u2013 he also had the French on his side within the UN security council. This time around, though, France opposes Westerwelle's position, and that is a crucial difference. The Berlin-Paris axis, which is also very important for the EU, has been damaged by the split.", "tags": ["Germany", "Libya", "United Nations", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Europe", "Angela Merkel", "Muammar Gaddafi", "Africa"], "title": "Germany has marginalised itself over Libya | Severin Weiland and Roland Nelles"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:05:06Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Leipzig is fast catching Berlin as a setting for innovative arts, particularly the city's Baumwollspinnerei (spinnerei.de), a former factory that now hosts dozens of eclectic galleries and artists' studios. The Spinnerei is the venue for British artist Jim Whiting's Bimbotown Parties (bimbotown.de, next one 2 April), a mix of music, theatre and lots of crazy stuff by artists from all over Europe. Tickets are sought after but some can usually be bought on the door. The cafe at the Galerie f\u00fcr Zeitgen\u00f6ssische Kunst (gfzk.de) is redesigned every two years by artists and called Kafic in its current version after a makeover by artist-architects Apolonija Sustersic and Meike Schalk. Stay in the Meisterzimmer, a room of 116m\u00b2 right in the middle of the Spinnerei (meisterzimmer.de, \u20ac80 for two, \u20ac160 for up to six people).Beer is so much a part of the fabric of life in Germany that it even has a role to play in monastic existence. The best example is the fabulous Weltenburg Benedictine monastery (klosterschenke-weltenburg.de), dramatically sited on a surging bend in the Danube near Regensburg. Here the monks run what is purported to be the oldest brewery in the world, and their dark beer is potent stuff. Visitors sit at tables in the monastery courtyard, quaffing and eating under spreading chestnut trees, and there's always the option of confession, either before or after, in the monastery's bewilderingly over-decorated rococo church.German actress Jessica Schwarz, a 33-year-old former model who is now among the country's acting elite, has somehow found time to convert an old listed building in her home town of Michelstadt into a boutique hotel. Die Tr\u00e4umerei's 17th-century building houses just four chic and individually designed rooms, as well as a cafe (die-traeumerei.com). Michelstadt itself is in the Odenwald forest, and ideally placed for Heidelberg, Germany's stunning university town, as well as being only 45 minutes from Frankfurt airport. From \u20ac135 for a double room.The largest fruit orchard in northern Europe is in the outskirts of Hamburg, and reachable through the city's S-Bahn system. And yet Altes Land, as the name suggests, is still a deeply traditional place, and it is particularly spectacular at blossom time (late April/early May, tourismus-altesland.de). The landscape is carefully preserved and comes complete with some of the finest half-timbered farmhouses in north Germany. Start exploring from the ancient port town of Stade, the terminus of S-Bahn line 3.Hay hotels are a peculiarly German institution, and an excellent old-fashioned adventure. They're at their best in the giant brick-built farmhouses of northern Germany, where the farmer and his stock all used to sleep under one roof. Many of those farms now open their hay barns (with attached bathroom facilities) to cyclists, who weave unhurriedly towards them across Niedersachsen's tapestry of dykes, marshland and heath (niedersachsen-tourism.de/en). This is ideal family cycling country, with big skies, dedicated cycle tracks, farmyard animals galore and minimal overnight costs, which include an immense farmhouse breakfast.Germany may not be a first-choice destination for ardent skiers, but you can't fault the ambition, and the accessibility, of one of its (almost unknown) ski regions. Sauerland, a hilly area east of D\u00fcsseldorf, describes itself as the \"largest snow paradise north of the Alps\", despite its comparatively low peaks and patchy snowfall (wintersport-arena.de). There are more than 120 ski lifts and a lively apr\u00e8s-ski, and it is good for beginners and intermediates. There's lots of entertainment for no-snow days, such as riding the Taxi-Bob, a bobsleigh run that can reach speeds of 80mph.The Mecklenburg lake district (mecklenburg-lakes.com) is a region of a thousand lakes and watercourses about 70km north of Berlin, and is pillowed in soft woodland and rolling agricultural land. These living waterways have long been a mecca for German boating holidays, although their appeal is more akin to the seductiveness of the Norfolk Broads than the drama of the UK's Lake District. Homemade boathouses line the shores, and youngsters still set off on motorised rafts for watery adventures, like something out of Huckleberry Finn. You can rent sophisticated cabin cruisers here too.The city's tradition as a hub for art dates back hundreds of years. In the 20th century, Joseph Beuys set up shop at the prestigious Kunstakademie (Academy of Arts) and the Becher School photography movement gave birth to household names such as Andreas Gursky and Candida H\u00f6fer. The Kunst Palast (smkp.de) and NRW Forum (nrw-forum.de) are key locations for contemporary exhibitions. The latter is currently showing Zeitgeist and Glamour, with works by David Bailey, Diane Arbus and Andy Warhol.The Sorbs are Germany's most enduring ethnic minority, and they've lived in a crescent of land in modern Brandenburg since the sixth century. Here, the Spreewald (spreewald.de) is a watery mosaic of channels, meadows, fields and forests fed by the river Spree, and easily accessible from Berlin. Key towns are L\u00fcbben and Lehde, where a lot of travel (including tours) is still by boat. Gherkins are a big industry for Sorb farmers, and every April the region hosts a unique Spreewald marathon, which involves running, cycling, walking, and paddling. The starting command? \"Auf die Gurke, fertig, los\" (gherkin, steady, go!) \u2013 not something you're likely to hear at the 2012 Olympics.\"Bankfurt\" is not all about gleaming capitalism, for Frankfurt's Main river undergoes a bank-side transformation in summertime to become a large outdoor bar. Favourites such as the Maincaf\u00e9, with its deckchairs and beach vibe, (between Untermainbr\u00fccke und Holbeinsteg) attract a relaxed crowd. Hafenbar (near Alte Br\u00fccke on the north bank of the river) is the beach bar outpost of the Stereobar club, where visitors can bring their own food. And the city's famous King Kamehameha gets down to the river as well in summer with its King Kamehameha Beach Club (king-kamehameha.de).Budapest doesn't have a monopoly on art nouveau baths. M\u00fcller'sches Volksbad, the \"people's spa\" (swm.de/privatkunden/m-baeder) next to Munich's Isar river is a gem, its murals and stucco the polar opposite of today's sleek and stylish spa designs. Opened in Rosenheimer Strasse in 1901, it is named after engineer (and benefactor) Karl M\u00fcller and it has been kept in its original condition. There are two pools, a steam bath and saunas. Early swimmers (doors open at 7.30am) get a discount and pay only \u20ac2.60 instead of \u20ac3.80.When M\u00fcnchner speak affectionately of Die Glocke, they are referring to an area of trendy shops, easy-going cafes and bars in the Glockenbachviertel and G\u00e4rtnerplatzviertel districts. It's a far cry from pricy Maximilianstrasse, the city's Gucci and Prada mile. Try Westerm\u00fchlstrasse and Klenzestrasse for fashion, as well as Eisenbl\u00e4tter-Triska (Hans-Sachs-Strasse 13, eisenblaetter-triska.de) for quirky hat creations, or boutique Kleider machen Leute (Reichenbachstrasse 10, kleidermachenleute-shop.de) for clothes and style advice. There's plenty of nightlife too, from relaxed retro at Trachtenvogl (Reichenbachstrasse 47, trachtenvogl.de) to easy listening, funk, electro, house and soul at Ksar Barclub (M\u00fcllerstrasse 31, ksar-barclub.de). The area is also the centre of Munich's gay community with clubs and bars mainly between Thalkirchnerstrasse and Fraunhoferstrasse.Paddle steamers were once the monarchs of the European river systems, but these days they are rare. Except, of course, if you're in Dresden, that reconstructed jewel of an imperial city, because a whole fleet of old beauties operates from this Florence of the Elbe (saechsische-dampfschiffahrt.de). Decks quivering, funnels billowing, paddles kiss-kissing the water, they thump upriver to the castle at Pillnitz (schloesser-dresden.de), and then onwards into mountainous Saxon Switzerland. From their final destination at Bad Schandau, it is only 45 minutes back to Dresden by train.Man has planted his mucky feet firmly into most corners of this planet, but the sea bed has so far been mainly off-limits. Not so in the vast intertidal zones of the Wadden Sea, those enormous tidal flats on the north coast of Germany, where the ebb tide often retreats as far as 10km. Walking out across these mostly sandy flats is called Wattwandern (wattwandern.de), but there's mud here too, of a quality that spa addicts would pay good money for. On certain tides you can walk right out to the Frisian islands, and then catch a ferry back on the returning tide. Go with a guide.X marks the spot where the AlpspiX viewing platform (zugspitze.de/en/summer/berg/garmisch-classic/alpspix.htm) hangs out over a thousand-metre void in the lee of the 2,962-metre Zugspitze, Germany's highest mountain, in southern Bavaria. Two metal walkways cross arms as they reach out into giddy nothingness, and you need to keep your nerve if you intend to walk the full 42 feet to the end of each, especially when it wobbles. The AlpspiX is reached via the Alpspitze cable car from the ski resort of Garmisch-Partenkirchen, \u20ac22 return.Everyone knows Neuschwanstein, the fairytale Bavarian Schloss that inspired Disneyland's Sleeping Beauty Castle, but millions queue for its (perfunctory) tour every year. Far better to take a hike up Schachen to the King's House (schloesser.bayern.de, admission \u20ac4.50) an extraordinary mountain-top retreat also built by castle-obsessed King Ludwig II of Bavaria, and have its bizarre Turkish-themed salon to yourself. It's a four-hour walk up from the car park at Elmau, near Garmisch-Partenkirchen, and you can overnight for as little as \u20ac10 in the next door Schachenhaus (schachenhaus.de), which also serves hot food and cold beer.We may not have heard of Baiersbronn here in the UK, but this small rural community in the Black Forest is a gourmet valley of international repute. Its nine small villages can boast seven Michelin stars, divided between three chefs. They are Harald Wohlfahrt (Schwarzwaldstube/3 stars, traube-tonbach.de), Claus-Peter Lumpp (Restaurant Bareiss/3 stars, bareiss.com) and J\u00f6rg Sackmann (Schlossberg/1 star, hotel-sackmann.de). If you don't feel like joining the queue for a reservation, Baiersbronn is also a prime hiking destination and ramblers can roam the forests on walks guided by a local chef, who'll reveal nature at its tastiest (baiersbronn.de).The Palatinate region, up against the border with France, is where Germany gets super-excited about food and wine. The German Wine Route runs here, with lots of tastings and good little restaurants. In March, the Mandelbl\u00fcte (almond blossom) makes the hills blush. The Ketschauer Hof (from \u20ac220 for a double room, ketschauer-hof.com) in Deidesheim is a stylish conversion of a winemaker's old manor house. In nearby Speyer, more than 1,500 years old and home of the Unesco-recognised Speyerer Dom (imperial cathedral), visitors can explore the city's rich history on a culinary walking tour (\u20ac52 per person, fourth Friday of every month, speyer.de), stopping off at different restaurants for each course of their three-course meal.Put your pedal to the metal on Germany's original grand prix track, the N\u00fcrburgring (nurburgring.de), a looping circuit through the forested Eifel hills. The 14-mile Nordschleife includes 73 right-angle bends and was used as a Formula One circuit until the cars simply became too fast for it. When Niki Lauda was badly injured in 1976 the drivers refused to compete there again, with Jackie Stewart christening it \"green hell\". These days you can drive around it yourself in your own car and see whether you agree, but just don't get distracted by the scenery.The Oktoberfest has lots of siblings all over the country, and it doesn't always have to be about beer. A reliable way to get pleasantly beschwipst (tipsy \u2013 good word!) is by mixing fruit and alcohol. German summertime favourite Erdbeerbowle (a mix of white wine, sparkling wine and strawberries) is a great beschwipst-er and is best enjoyed on a warm evening at the Wilhelmstrassenfest street festival in elegant spa town Wiesbaden (this year from 2-4 June, wiesbaden.de). If you must have beer, the Bergkirchweih festival in Erlangen (9-20 June, erlangen.de), dates back to the 18th century. And Bamberg, beer city par excellence, hosts the Sandkerwa (25-29 August, bamberg.info), when the output of the city's own eight breweries is supplemented by the arrival of outside beer makers, who set up stalls in the old city.The UK and Germany share a love of gardens. Schleswig-Holstein's \"Garden trails between the seas\" (the North Sea and the Baltic Sea) is a selection of nine routes that can be covered by bike (best, it's flat here!) or car (sh-tourismus.de/en/garden-trails). Each route takes in 10 different gardens and parks plus stopovers in tree nurseries or garden cafes. Apart from discovering northern German garden culture, it's a fantastic way to explore a region that is usually off the radar for Brits.Andrew Eames and Barbara Geier are editors of germanyiswunderbar.com", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Munich holidays", "Frankfurt holidays", "Dresden holidays", "Boating holidays", "Cultural trips", "Food and drink", "Short breaks", "City breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Wunderbar! The best of Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-18T12:29:32Z", "country": "germany", "content": "One of the biggest recent news stories in Germany involved a plagiarism scandal that brought down the defence minister, Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg. Perhaps this is a fitting moment, therefore, to recall another case of plagiarism that rocked the literary world at the beginning of 2010.The debut novel by the Berlin author Helene Hegemann, who was 18 at the time, had the unusual title of Axolotl Roadkill and made headlines with its depiction of a teenage girl's drug-addled adventures in Berlin's club scene. But the author found herself attracting headlines of an entirely unwelcome kind when it was revealed that she had borrowed liberally from other writers, including a blogger who goes by the name Airen. The initial enthusiasm for the book quickly melted away, and some critics may have wondered how they had allowed themselves to get caught up in the hysteria over what turned out to be a minor literary event.Perhaps that's why a large swath of German readers are pleased that there is at least one person who never loses his cool, namely the former chancellor Helmut Schmidt. Four of his non-fiction works are among the 10 most successful books of the past 10 years, including Unser Jahrhundert (\"Our Century\"), a conversation with the historian Fritz Stern, which was published in 2010. In Germany it's no longer the pope or J\u00fcrgen Habermas who satisfies the country's yearning for moral guidance, but Schmidt. The former chancellor is depicted on the jacket of Unser Jahrhundert holding his ever-present cigarette, something that is also part of his aura: he not only defies the zeitgeist in his opinions, he even flouts the advice of the medical establishment.The grand old man of German politics would probably frown on another class of author that has proved popular in Germany in recent years: the self-deprecating egocentric. They write entirely about their own experiences from an ironic perspective, and churn out tongue-in-cheek books about such diverse topics as getting old, snoring and having children. One of the most successful works of the genre is the recent Achtung Baby! (\"Look Out Baby!\") by the comedian Michael Mittermeier. For his generation, it seems, becoming a father is not so much a normal biological process as a lifestyle choice.Thomas Hettche also focused on the theme of family in his novel Die Liebe der V\u00e4ter (\"The Love of the Fathers\"), which deals with the relationship between a father and his estranged daughter. Literary critics welcomed the book, partly because its publication coincided with a landmark decision on custody law by Germany's highest court. But Hettche's novel suffered the same fate as Hegemann's book \u2013 only a few weeks after its publication, the critics began to find fault with it.The daughter in Hettche's novel is portrayed as a modern child who spends much of her time texting and listening to her iPod. What could be more shocking than to go without the tools of modern communication? In Ohne Netz (\"Without the Internet\"), Alex R\u00fchle writes about his \"half year offline\". As it happens, this type of \"self-experiment\" has become increasingly popular among German non-fiction authors, who try to live strictly in accordance with the Bible, say, or forgo sex completely.One of the standout works in the genre is Karen Duve's Anst\u00e4ndig essen (\"Eating Properly: How I Tried to Become a Better Person\"), in which the author tries out a variety of green-tinged diets such as vegetarianism and veganism. The result is not so much a polemic as a personal investigation into the food industry and factory farming. In Germany, where there are now plans to build the largest poultry slaughterhouse in Europe, with the capacity for slaughtering 130m chickens a year, it makes sense to be more aware of the side effects of industrial-scale breeding, fattening and killing. The book seemed to be Germany's contribution to a discussion on the ethics of eating sparked by the publication of Jonathan Safran Foer's Eating Animals.Much more controversial \u2013 and successful \u2013 was Thilo Sarrazin's Deutschland schafft sich ab (\"Germany Does Away With Itself\"). This treatise by a former Bundesbank board member is \u2013 to put it mildly \u2013 highly critical of immigration and Muslims, who he claims are threatening the very fabric of German society. The tremendous success of Sarrazin's theories says a lot about the way society is going in Germany, where even the liberal chattering classes unashamedly complain there are \"too many foreigners\" in their kids' schools.Sarrazin's book sold more than 1m copies, contributing significantly to a year-on-year rise in the sales of non-fiction books of 20%. The fiction market, on the other hand, was extremely weak. The bestseller lists are dominated by globally successful fantasy authors such as Stephenie Meyer, or by crime fiction writers such as Britain's Simon Beckett and the American author Elizabeth George.More challenging fare was provided by Melinda Nadj Abonji. Her novel Tauben fliegen auf (\"Falcons without Falconers\"), a family drama about Yugoslavian immigrants in Switzerland, won the 2010 German Book Prize, Germany's answer to the Booker. But unlike previous winners by authors such as Katharina Hacker, Julia Franck and Uwe Tellkamp \u2013 all reliable suppliers of highly marketable light novels for a moderately demanding reading public \u2013 Abonji's novel was a commercial disaster, just reaching number 50 on the bestseller list shortly before Christmas.New books by G\u00fcnter Grass and Christa Wolf reminded us that there were once such things as great German writers. Gruppe 47 (Group 47), a literary association that influenced an entire era and encompassed the country's best authors, disbanded long ago. Which author under 60 could play that role today? Thomas Lehr, perhaps, whose September. Fata Morgana is a linguistic tour de force set in the aftermath of 9/11 and is both celebrated and controversial. Pedantic critics derided it for not having a single punctuation mark (despite the full stop in the title), as if punctuation has anything to do with literature.Next to Lehr's book, the most striking work in stylistic terms was Peter Wawerzinek's Rabenliebe (\"Motherless Child\"). The autobiographical novel seems almost anachronistic, like something from the days when lederhosen-wearing poets declaimed at open windows. The fact that this powerful writer grew up in the communist German Democratic Republic will perhaps encourage some East German intellectuals to claim that the workers' state was a republic of scholars. But anyone who has read Rabenliebe knows that it was a cold, brutal childhood that prompted Wawerzinek to escape into literature.Today the former East Germany is on the road to becoming the Wild East for writers from the west. In Deutschboden (\"On German Soil\"), described as an exercise in \"participatory observation\", Moritz von Uslar spends time with the natives of a Brandenburg village, while Wolfgang Herrndorf's Tschick dispatches two adolescents through the same state in a stolen Lada. The latter was a surprise success.Readers may be wondering at this point whether Basil Fawlty's famous dictum \"Don't mention the war\" also applies to contemporary German literature. But one current literary sensation is a previously almost forgotten novel that deals with the Nazi era. Jeder stirbt f\u00fcr sich allein (\"Every Man Dies Alone\") by Hans Fallada (1893-1947) is the story of a Berlin couple executed by the Nazis; it was recently republished in Germany in its original version. Like the liberation from Hitler in 1945, Germans can also thank the Allies for giving them Fallada's novel back: its republication was inspired by the book's tremendous success in Britain and the United States (as Alone in Berlin).1 Hummeldumm by Tommy Jaud (comic novel about German holidaymakers in Namibia)2 Erbarmen (Mercy) by Jussi Adler-Olsen (Danish crime)3 Fall of Giants by Ken Follett (five families in the first world war)4 The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner by Stephenie Meyer5 Deutschland schafft sich ab (Germany Does Away with Itself) by Thilo\u00a0Sarrazin", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Germany", "Culture", "Fiction", "Biography", "Politics"], "title": "What they're reading in Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-14T09:26:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "9.24am: Guten Morgen! As part of the Guardian's month-long Europe season, I'm live blogging today from the Hamburg offices of Der Spiegel, Germany's most celebrated news magazine. Der Spiegel has long been a German institution and is essential reading for anyone who wants to understand Germany or German politics, so it should be a good base.The Guardian's editor-in-chief, Alan Rusbridger sets out the purpose of our Europe series here. \"Too often Europe is discussed and reported through its common institutions or purely in terms of its relations with Britain,\" he writes.Here are a few highlights of our coverage today: We've got the results of a Europe-wide ICM poll that shows trust in politicians at rock bottom around Europe \u2013 and the lack of trust is greatest in Poland and France.Today's focus is on Germany and we have a provocative comment piece  from Hans-Olaf Henkel, a former president of the Federation of German Industries, who argues that the euro should be split in two \u2013 a northern zone with a strong adherence to \"monetary and budgetary stability, and a southern zone that would reflect a \"free-spending mentality and talent for monetary improvisation\". And the headline of the day award goes to this piece about German theatre by Guardian critic Michael Billington, \"Don't mention the phwoar\".You can read the rest of the Guardian's coverage here. Later today, I'm interviewing Der Spiegel's editor-in-chief, Georg Mascolo.I want to ask him about Angela Merkel, WikiLeaks' revelations, and Der Spiegel's relationship with Julian Assange. (Unlike the Guardian and New York Times, Der Spiegel is still on friendly terms with the WikiLeaks founder.) You can find the Guardian's coverage from Germany today here. Spiegel Online is currently leading with the latest explosion at the Japanese nuclear reactor in Fukushima.9.30am: Morning conference in the offices of Spiegel Online has just got under way. The main theme of discussion is Japan and the rapidly worsening situation at the Fukushima reactor. There's a view among Spiegel journalists that the Japanese government is deliberately underplaying the scale of the crisis in order to prevent panic breaking out among Japan's population. Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron, Spiegel's chief editor, puts it like this: \"These are historic days. The news we've had in the last few minutes suggests that the nuclear reactor's core could be heading for a meltdown.\"9.54am: There's a knock on the door. Urgent news from Berlin: the German government has decided to review the decision to prolong the country's nuclear reactor programme. The catastrophe in Japan has provoked a massive debate about what to do with Germany's own ageing nuclear power stations. The Greens and Social Democrats want the stations to be phased out immediately (remember Atomkraft? Nein Danke!). But Angela Merkel's coalition government recently decided to keep them in service. The government now seems to be having a major wobble.More discussion in the Spiegel conference about how to cover the events in Japan. There's much praise for Spiegel's hastily employed Japanese translator. And apparently an amateur scientist in Tokyo is running round posting live radiation levels on Facebook.10.26am: Conference is over and I'm now installed on the sixth floor of Spiegel Online's offices in Hamburg. Just across the road is the historic building where the main Spiegel magazine is based. The 11-storey block was built in the 1960s and is justifiably famous: its canteen is decorated in lurid oranges and reds. It looks like something out of the film Barbarella. Jule Lutteroth, Spiegel Online's deputy editor-in-chief, tells me there used to be an equally funky swimming pool in the basement. Now, boringly, it houses Spiegel's archives. (Each floor was decorated with its own colour scheme: journalists working on foreign news sat in rooms painted in a hideous dark blue. They eventually demanded a new colour scheme.) Der Spiegel, Spiegel Online and Spiegel TV are moving in August to a new building just down the road. This may be progress, but this modern penthouse is duller than Spiegel's old home.11.20am: I've just had a fascinating chat with Olaf Kanter, Spiegel Online's managing editor. Unlike in Britain, where the newspaper industry seems to be in its death throes, Der Spiegel is making a healthy profit, he tells me. Germany's advertising industry recovered strongly in the second half of last year, he says, and the magazine is selling about 1m copies every week. And it's not only German newspapers doing well: the car-makers BMW, Mercedes, and VW are all posting record profits. \"We haven't suffered like England. You have a much bigger financial services industry. We build more things. Our exports have rescued us,\" Kanter says. Generally, Germans seems much more optimistic than Brits. One of my old friends in Hamburg, Stefan Schaefer, works for the travel agency Travel Overland. We had dinner last night in one of Hamburg's cheap and cheerful Turkish restaurants; he's busier than ever, he says.12.03pm: Another dramatic development: Der Spiegel has decided to pull its reporter out of Tokyo because of the risk a Chernobyl-style radiation cloud could reach the Japanese capital. Thilo Thielke, Spiegel's veteran war correspondent, is leaving Japan today. Spiegel is now covering the story from Bangkok and the south of Japan. Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron says the latest information is ominous: the wind is blowing from the north \u2013 in the direction of Tokyo. \"Perhaps this is a piece of German angst. But no country is more against nuclear power than Germany,\" he says. He adds: \"The wind is shifting from the north and could blow a cloud south directly to Tokyo. This is really horrible. I think this is a big, big crisis and a wake-up call for nuclear energy.\" The German embassy is also making preparations to evacuate some staff, apparently.12.06pm: There is good coverage of Japan in Spiegel Online International, Spiegel's English language window. In an opinion piece Rolland Nelles, a one-time fan of nuclear energy, says in the wake of Fukushima German chancellor Angela Merkel (pictured) will be forced to modify her pro-nuclear stance. He writes:Even the last remaining advocates of the technology must realise that we can't go on like this. It is over. Done. Finished. Nuclear energy cannot be controlled by humans, no matter how good the arguments might be in its favour. The danger of disaster is real, and it can happen at any time \u2013 even in a super hi-tech country like Japan. And it could also happen here in Germany. A sense of security when it comes to atomic reactors is no longer possible. Not anywhere.12.19pm: A few non-Japan stories caught my eye this morning. The German tabloids all report on a driver high on drugs who ploughed into a group of pedestrians in Hamburg yesterday afternoon, killing four of them. One of the victims was Dietmar Mues, an actor in the popular and long-running German police series Tatort (Crime Scene). His wife Sibylle also died. The accident took place in Eppendorf, an affluent part of Hamburg. (I know the area well: my best friend in Hamburg, Michael Fleischer, had an aunt who lived nearby.) Bild Zeitung calls it a \"horror-accident\" (German only).Oh, and a gang of punks are apparently stealing Hamburg's dogs. They have so far made off with a three-month-old bulldog, Joker, as well as a labrador, Buddy, and a sheepdog-mongrel Milo, Bild says.12.58pm: I'm about to try out Spiegel's legendary canteen over the road. But before I go off and grab a Br\u00f6tchen I ask Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron about relations between Germany and England. (In 2006 I wrote an essay arguing the World Cup had transformed Germany's image in the eyes of the British media, and ordinary Brits. The Nazi cliches were over, more or less, I suggested.) Mathias tells me that the Germans don't feel schadenfreude at Britain's current economic woes. He says: \"You have a tricky and difficult situation. David Cameron has to see through a public sector cuts programme of unheard of proportions. I'm surprised there isn't a revolution in Britain going on. We don't like to see other European countries suffer, especially not Britain. I love London. I'm often in Britain. What would Europe do without British newspapers like the Economist, Guardian and FT?\"Der Spiegel hasn't nailed down its plans yet, but is almost certainly going to cover next month's royal wedding. It may even do a live-ticker! Could Der Spiegel be more interested in the royal wedding than the republican Guardian?2.28pm: The Spiegel canteen lived up to its billing! The decor with its space-age ceiling lamps and funky wall balls is a breathtaking piece of 60s modernist kitsch. The chips aren't bad either. Verner Panton is the man who designed it. You can see more examples of his work here on Flickr .The canteen is due to close, alas, in five months' time when Spiegel moves house.I'm off to see Georg Mascolo, Spiegel's editor-in-chief. I'll report back shortly.3.13pm: I talked to Georg Mascolo for 20 minutes \u2013 not bad, given the huge running story in Japan. I asked Mascolo about Julian Assange (pictured) and WikiLeaks. (Assange collaborated with the Guardian, New York Times and Der Spiegel in the release of secret US state department cables last year, as well as war logs from Iraq and Afghanistan. He is no longer on speaking terms with the Guardian and New York Times teams.Mascolo says of Assange: \"He's a very interesting guy. I always thought he might end up running Facebook or Google rather than WikiLeaks. I think we can admire the achievements. We all see his very difficult personality.\" The Spiegel editor-in-chief recalls a tense meeting last November when Assange threatened to boot the Guardian and New York Times out of the newspaper consortium publishing the secret US government communiques. \"There was a moment when he decided only Spiegel would go ahead with printing the cables. I refused and said I was very happy with the relationship with the New York Times and Guardian. We would not accept any split with our group.\"Two Spiegel journalists, Marcel Rosenbach and Holger Stark, have written a German-language book about WikiLeaks, currently on Germany's non-fiction bestseller list.3.28pm: Mascolo also had some interesting things to say about the media industry. He doesn't believe that newspapers should give away their content. Much of Spiegel's success \u2013 it posted huge profits last year \u2013 is due to the fact that Spiegel Online and the Spiegel magazine have almost entirely different editorial content, he says. (Spiegel Online posts only four or five articles from the weekly print edition. Its editorial operation is separate.) Mascolo politely criticises the Guardian's online model, where you can read all the paper's content for free. He says: \"We decided years ago to raise the price for the magazine. It's already \u20ac4 (\u00a33). You might say this is a lot of money but it isn't much more than a cafe latte in Starbucks. I don't believe in journalism for free. I believe if you want to have good quality you have to pay for it.\"3.38pm: Thanks for all your comments about my \"liquid lunch\"! I can assure you I haven't drunk anything stronger than tea since arriving in Hamburg on Sunday.Breaking news: Angela Merkel has just announced a three-month \"delay\" on the German government's decision to extend the lifespan of Germany's ageing nuclear power plants. Her move is clearly in response to events in Japan. But it also appears to be linked to regional elections later this month in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg (and two other federal states) where Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) are running neck and neck with the centre-left Social Democrats. The CDU has controlled Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg for almost 60 years; losing it would be an enormous blow to Merkel's coalition. The nuclear power station debate has dominated the election campaign (German only).4.19pm: My colleague Juan Gomez from El Pais has taken this photo of Mascolo's office on the 11th-floor of Spiegel Towers. There is an amazing panoramic view of the city. On Mascolo's wall is a sign saying: \"Keep calm and carry on.\" He also has a cushion in the colours of the German flag with the words: \"Geld allein macht nicht gl\u00fccklich!\" (Money alone doesn't make you happy!) on a black leather sofa.According to Mascolo, Merkel has every chance of winning Germany's next general election in 2013, despite today's embarrassing U-turn over nuclear energy. \"I don't think she's going anywhere anytime soon,' he says. Merkel's biggest failing, he suggests, is that after seven years as chancellor she has still not properly explained her vision for Germany. Mascolo also says Guido Westerwelle, Germany's foreign minister, is doing better after a disappointing first two years in the job. Unlike British foreign secretary William Hague, Westerwelle \u2013 the leader of Germany's pro-business FDP party \u2013 has had a \"good\" Arab revolution. He has spoken passionately in favour of democracy in the Arab world, though Germany as a whole is opposed to any kind of military intervention in Libya or elsewhere. I'm interviewing Westerwelle on Thursday and will form my own view then.4.55pm: It's been a good day to be live blogging in Germany: after decades of debate the Germans really do appear (unlike the French) to be calling time on their nuclear energy industry. The subject is the top of the political agenda here and today's events in Japan will ensure that it stays there. I spent four years in Germany as the Guardian's correspondent in Berlin (2003-2006) before moving to Russia, from where I was recently, and unhappily, expelled. I've always been struck by how the Germans manage to do things more successfully than the Brits. Today's visit to Der Spiegel has merely confirmed this view. German newspapers are still hugely profitable, (ours are virtually bankrupt) and there seems to be a view here that both journalists and journalism has a future. The German economy has already recovered, while ours is mired in gloom.The Guardian will be covering Germany for the rest of this week as part our month-long Europe season. After that it's on to France, from where Alexandra Topping will be live blogging from Monday. Thanks for all your comments and Tsch\u00fcss! ", "tags": ["Europe", "World news", "Germany", "Media", "Magazines"], "title": "New Europe live blog - Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:04:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Experience the beauty of the Amazon and learn about its wildlife, ecology and complexity at this magical attraction \u2013 inside a 30m-high old gasometer. It features a giant 360\u00b0 panoramic recreation of the rainforest. Bring or hire binoculars so you can spot animals in the 'forest' \u2013 and listen out for their calls. It's a great combination of originality and information.Richard-Lehman Strasse 114, +49 341 35 55 340, asisi.de; entrance \u20ac10 adults, \u20ac5 childrenLesley46Dachgarten at the ReichstagAvoid the queues at the Reichstag for the price of breakfast by booking online at the restaurant Dachgarten. Go straight to the front of any queue to get into the Reichstag and tell them you have booked breakfast, get your name checked off the list by the guards and get escorted through security by your personal escort to the lift that carries you to the restaurant at the foot of the glass dome. Terrific breakfast (and we are vegetarian) and then we had the run of the dome and fabulous views over Berlin. Awesome. Platz der Republik 1, +49 30 2262 9933, bundestag.deLilianhandyEast Side GalleryIt's a 1.3km length of the Berlin Wall with amazing artwork, recently restored. Pollution and graffiti ruined the first lot so get to see it before this happens again.M\u00fchlenstrasse 1, eastsidegallery.comtheairsZwiebelfischWith the demise of Gainsbourg (it's been turned into a supermarket) there's only Zwiebelfisch and Diener flying the flag for old Berlin in this chic square between the K'Damm (Kurf\u00fcrstendamm) and Kantstrasse. Once a hotbed of revolutionary chatter, it's now a very laidback joint that seems totally at ease with itself. Papered in thousands of posters and old photos, it's got a chilled-out vibe thanks in no small measure to the genial owner, a veteran of West Berlin's pre-1989 counter culture. Zwiebelfisch, incidentally, is an old printing expression meaning a letter printed in the wrong font.Savignyplatz 7, +49 30 312 73 63, zwiebelfisch-berlin.deTimETempelhof airportThis now-disused terminal is the third largest building in the world, and the scale is breathtaking, in particular the vast arrivals hall, which was designed by Ernst Sagebiel. He worked in the same offices as Albert Speer, Hitler's architect. It is that worrying link with the past that makes walking through the site all the more interesting. It is particularly eerie now it is empty but there are plenty of reminders of the airport's previous life as a major international terminal and the role it played in the 1948 Berlin Airlift. The US military used it as a base during the cold war, from 1945, and their old offices are left exactly as they were immediately after their departure in 1993. Brilliant.+49 30 6091 1660, berlin-airport.de; the airport tour lasts two hours and costs \u20ac8ppJGNaughtonX-Terrain barGreat little cellar bar in Oranienburger Strasse. Go down the steps and be greeted by the bowler-hatted Ian Dury-esque owner/designer of this DIY retro establishment. Homemade artworks and paraphenalia adorn the brick walls, candles drip wax over their holders \u2013 soak up the smoke-filled ambience and Rolling Stones grooves. Relax on a big-armed sofa and discuss the Tacheles art collective (just along the road) over a Berliner Weisse, green or red. A real taste of creative, underground Berlin.Oranienburger Strasse 40WillJohnson747Strand Pauli Beach ClubStrand Pauli is one of several beach clubs in Hamburg with a great view of the river Elbe. It's near Landungsbr\u00fccken, just 15 minutes from the Hauptbahnhof, Hamburg's central train station. Here you will find good music, German beer and food direct from the barbecue. Relax on comfortable beach furniture under palm trees with your toes in the sand, which is brought each summer from the North Sea coast.Hafenstrasse 89, +49 163 733 58 32, strandpauli.deEppendorferLake DistrictDespite being only a short car or train journey from Berlin, the idyllic region around the Scharm\u00fctzelsee and its smaller lakes is as off the beaten track, as reasonably priced and untouristy as they come. You can pamper yourself in the thermal brine spas at Bad Saarow, spend the night in the opulent surroundings of the fairytale Schloss Hubertush\u00f6he, a former royal hunting lodge, or just take in the unspoilt beaches, woodland and wildlife.Bad Saarow spa, +49 33 631 8680, bad-saarow.de; Schloss Hubertush\u00f6he, hubertushoehe.deBurgermeisterschechThe AldstadtThe city that gave us Kraftwerk also gave us some of the finest beer in the world. The Altstadt is crammed with traditional German beerhalls selling the renowned Altbier. This top-fermented ale is best sampled in the four brewpubs, each with their own distinctive tipple served from the barrel. The oldest is Schumacher, not far from the station, and the other three \u2013 the F\u00fcchschen, Schl\u00fcssel and Uerige \u2013 are in the Altstadt.Oststrasse 123, +49 21 1828 9020, schumacher-alt.deTroutiemcfishWein und Biersh\u00e4nkeFamous for its Flammkuchen and Neuwein, the Sh\u00e4nke restaurant has been satisfying the hunger of both locals and tourists since 1982. The friendly atmosphere is great for any type of gathering, with its flea-market decor and wooden beams.Flammkuchen is a huge rectangular slice of deliciousness, traditionally topped with bacon and onion. It's similar to the humble pizza, but has a sauce made of quark (a type of cheese) instead of tomato. My favourite is half topped with feta and jalape\u00f1os, with the other half covered in mushrooms, onions, sweetcorn and kidney beans. Its non-alcoholic KiBa cocktail (half cherry-half banana) is my favourite accompaniment, except for in September and October, when the sweet-tasting Neuwein is in season.N\u00e4he Dom, Wollstrasse 7-9, +49 62 412 4919, weinundbierschaenke.deemilyreactsCafe BeegCafe Beeg is an old-school German cafe, with a formal atmosphere, delicious food, cakes and coffee. Children are welcomed \u2013 they warmed our daughter's baby meal and brought it out on a silver serving dish \u2013 and the cakes are to die for.Cafe Beeg, Gernsbacherstrasse 44-46, +49 72 213 6760NimitzThe vast Bodensee in south-east Germany is an undiscovered gem to us Brits. Base yourself in the popular island town of Lindau and stroll around the old quarter before heading out to explore the lakeside. You can cycle or walk southwards along the lake to Bregenz in Austria (having a dip in the \"See\" along the way), or take one of the many boats or catamarans across to Konstanz or Rorschach in Switzerland. Venture inland from Lindau and hike up to the top of the Pf\u00e4nder for breath-taking views. Try out the hip Youth Hostel situated on the lakeside in Lindau.Lindau Youth Hostel, +49 83 82 96 710, jugendherberge.de/jh/bayern/lindau/welshlynRiver-surf at the EisbachDespite being far from the ocean, Munich has a reputation as a surfing hotspot. It is highly entertaining to watch local surfers riding the artificial wave. When you have had enough, take a stroll in the English Garden and stop at the Chinese Tower beer garden for a bite to eat and a local beer. Bliss. The Eisbach (artificial river) at the Haus der Kunst, by the English Garden NinnytendoCafe SoloOnly one hour south of Munich by car or train, on the banks of the river Isar, Cafe Solo is a friendly, English-speaking bar and restaurant. The enchiladas are fabulous, as is the \"steak vital\" \u2013 succulent pork loins served with rice. Alternatively, relax on the covered, heated terrace overlooking the bridge and the quaint 12th-century town of Bad Tolz, with its famous mural that lines the main street, sipping a wheatbeer.K\u00f6nigsdorfer Strasse 2, cafe-solo.euArcweldThe Nebelhorn/Breitach gorgeGorgeous Oberstdorf is in the Alpine southern toe of Germany and the cable car ride up to the mountain top gives amazing views across the Alps. Down below are lovely waymarked walks by glacial rivers or through the stunning Breitach gorge. The town itself is a relaxed and reasonably priced tourist spot, popular with German holidaymakers.Oberstdorf has a station and is easily accessed by car or train from Friedrichshafen or Munich airports.oberstdorf.deAlteeGrosser ArberThe highest mountain in the Bavarian Forest, this is a wintersport resort, ideal for families and beginners, but has a couple of black runs, and it also has snowboard railpark. Snow conditions are very reliable, plus it's cheaper than the Alpine resorts and less crowded. It's only a couple of hours by train from Munich airport.visitbavaria.comgermanclairePichelsteinerfest, RegenThe largest and most popular beer festival in the Bavarian Forest \u2013 this year it's on 29 July to 3 August. A highlight is the river floats parade on the Saturday evening, illuminated by candles.pichelsteinerfest.comgermanclaire", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Berlin holidays", "Munich holidays", "Hamburg holidays", "City breaks", "Food and drink", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' tips: the best of Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:04:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "I am always being asked which German town I like best \u2013 and this, on the face of it, completely fair question always freezes me up. Dizzy with pubs, turrets, marketplaces, graveyards and shops selling odd things made from marzipan, I can no longer really tell which was which. Mystic rosebushes, miniature prisons, pulpits shaped like a tulip have all blended into a single demented townscape as the years spent\u00a0wandering happily from place to place now take their mental revenge on me.Taking a grip of myself, however, I will tend to blurt out one word: \"Bamberg\". Now I know that I liked Weikersheim more and felt more peaceful sitting outside a hermit's rock-chapel in Schw\u00e4bisch Gm\u00fcnd, but Bamberg, in Bavaria, was the place that so battered my senses that it made me want to uproot my family and live in Germany.Bamberg is built around seven hills and features the most extraordinary architecture \u2013 the cathedral, for example, crowded with the most vivid and peculiar medieval stone carvings, a monastery enclosing a garden filled with all the flowers and fruit mentioned in the Bible and with a side-chapel which includes the most enjoyable of all German representations of \"dances of death\", with a gleeful, preening, derisive skeleton capering around his victims.Many of the streets are so perfectly gnarled and gabled that you expect the population to all sing from their balconies or do Student Prince-style dances over the town's bridges, rather than merely queue at ATMs or buy sausages. The pubs fuel astonishing levels of drinking \u2013 apparently the highest per capita consumption of beer in Europe and with a real sense that in these roaring, terrible-smelling interiors the entire population is working hard to maintain this pointless eminence.Much of the action is focused on the unique Rauchbier, a local beer created by doing something to malt not viewed as rational in other places. It tastes terrible, but nonetheless gives the drinker such a feeling of localism, camaraderie and warrior strength as to be almost irresistible.The wonderful ETA Hoffmann lived for a while in Bamberg and in so much of the town you feel fully engaged with his macabre spirit \u2013 strange towers, moss-covered walls and inexplicably designed carvings, shop signs and door knockers proliferate. Even secondhand\u00a0bookshops help out with needlessly necromancy-focused window displays.But at the town's sinister \u2013 but pleasurable \u2013 heart lies the spectacular bird hall at the city's Natural History Museum (naturkundemuseum-bamberg.de), which reopened last year after heavy restoration work. This great room preserves miraculously the spirit of the late 18th century, when Bamberg was a semi-independent state and the Enlightenment in full swing.A mass of white and gold paint, the hall has somehow kept all its original fittings, which display stuffed birds, a whale jaw, glass pyramids filled with robin eggs and wax models of every fruit to be found in Bamberg, with everything somehow almost glowing with that era's atmosphere of genial inquiry.I never did get to live in Bamberg, my children skipping over the bridges strewing flower petals, my wife waving and laughing from the balcony of our pub (or, in another scenario, waving and laughing from the balcony of the bird hall curator's no-doubt charming house). But it was the inspiration of Bamberg, as well as my family's sullen refusal to uproot from south-west London, that made me fall back on the second best thing and start writing a book.", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Cultural trips", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "My travels: Simon Winder in Bavaria, Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-18T17:40:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": "When it came to the crunch, Chancellor Angela Merkel and her foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, decided that Germany should side with China and Russia. These three members of the UN security council abstained from Thursday's vote on a resolution to impose a no-fly zone over Libya, along with Brazil and India. It is a curious political development, to say the least.The three make for strange bedfellows. There is Germany, a democracy which puts great store in the rule of law and human rights, siding with a communist, one-party dictatorship and a country with a dubious track record on political freedoms. On the other side are Germany's traditional allies \u2013 the US, France and Britain \u2013 not to mention parts of the Arab and African world. Lebanon had been one of the countries presenting the resolution, which was backed by the Arab League. Qatar and the UAE have already said they would take part in a military operation, according to UN diplomats.And despite the Libyan regime's move on Friday afternoon to declare a ceasefire \u2013 at least for now \u2013 and inviting international observers into the country, Berlin's move could have lasting repercussions. Although Berlin has not blocked military action by abstaining, the German government has marginalised itself. It is effectively telling its allies: You will have to deal with this one alone \u2013 we're not going to help you.The German position, which had been agreed between Merkel and Westerwelle, had been clear for days. As a concession to its allies, Berlin will now beef up its mission in Afghanistan. There is talk of Germany taking part in AWACS surveillance flights over the country, which would take pressure off Germany's allies and free up their aircraft for operations over Libya. But is it enough?Some politicians within Merkel's centre-right coalition are already warning that Germany could be drifting even further away from France, Britain and the US. Attitudes toward Germany will change as a result of the vote, says Ruprecht Polenz, a member of parliament for Merkel's conservatives who heads up the Bundestag's foreign affairs committee. \"I don't think we've heard the last word on this,\" he said, pointing out that the EU had already announced its support for the resolution. Germany will also participate in a discussion about the resolution within the EU and Nato, Polenz said.It's clear that Westerwelle enjoys playing the role of Germany's pacifist-in-chief. Speaking in his office in Berlin on Friday morning, he justified his scepticism about a military intervention yet again. The German government sees \"significant dangers and risks\", he said, meaning that it could not support the whole resolution.Westerwelle has been striking exactly that tone for weeks now. At first, his stance earned him praise, even from the opposition. But now, given the risk that Libyan rebels could be massacred by Gaddafi's troops if they do not receive military help, Westerwelle's position seems oddly out of touch with reality. Merkel and Westerwelle apparently hope that the German \"nein\" will go down well with the electorate. That may well be the case. But within Nato, Berlin's abstention is likely to be perceived as showing a lack of solidarity with Germany's allies.Indeed, it seems as if the Merkel-Westerwelle duo have become trapped by their own position.When the insurgency against Gaddafi broke out, Westerwelle promptly stated his support for the repressed opposition. Earlier, he had initially been cautious before making any pronouncements about Tunisia and Egypt, but in the case of Libya, he quickly called out Gaddafi as a dictator, and argued in favour of EU-level sanctions against the regime in Tripoli.But when Gaddafi proved hard to topple, and his troops began a counteroffensive, retaking one city after another, Westerwelle didn't prove any more flexible in his stance. Over time, his scepticism about a no-fly zone grew into a firm \"no\". And as Britain and France lobbied for military action, a resurgent Gaddafi praised Germany's position. That fact alone should have been deeply embarrassing for Berlin.By then, at the very latest, Westerwelle and Merkel ought to have shifted their positions. Besides, by that point, the Arab states had already said they would actively participate in a no-fly zone \u2013 one of the main pre-conditions Westerwelle himself had stipulated for any UN mandate.Nevertheless, Merkel and Westerwelle stuck to their positions. In recent days, Westerwelle even intensified the tenor of his rhetoric. However, his target was not Gaddafi but, indirectly, London and Paris. Washington, for its part, had long remained undecided. Speaking on Friday morning, Westerwelle also reiterated a statement he has oft repeated in recent days: \"German soldiers will not participate in a military mission in Libya.\"It's exactly the kind of sentence that former German Chancellor Gerhard Schr\u00f6der of the centre-left Social Democratic party (SPD) might have used. During the last Iraq war, he adopted early on the position that Germany would not participate \u2013 right in the middle of a national election campaign in 2002.Westerwelle surely had similar considerations on his mind. After all, there is considerable scepticism regarding overseas military operations among the German population, and particularly amid the members of the upper-middle class who tend to vote for his business-friendly Free Democratic party. At the beginning of the year, Westerwelle's position as FDP leader looked shaky amid internal opposition. But he managed to stabilise his situation after the FDP's decent performance in elections in the city-state of Hamburg. Now the FDP faces elections this weekend in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt. A week later, pivotal votes take place in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg and Rhineland-Palatinate in western Germany that could have implications for Merkel's and Westerwelle's coalition government.Now Westerwelle is taking his cue from Schr\u00f6der, and he clearly thinks this is a recipe for domestic political success. But Schr\u00f6der was better positioned in 2002 \u2013 he also had the French on his side within the UN security council. This time around, though, France opposes Westerwelle's position, and that is a crucial difference. The Berlin-Paris axis, which is also very important for the EU, has been damaged by the split.", "tags": ["Germany", "Libya", "United Nations", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Europe", "Angela Merkel", "Muammar Gaddafi", "Africa"], "title": "Germany has marginalised itself over Libya | Severin Weiland and Roland Nelles"},{"date": "2011-03-18T00:05:09Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Timothy Garton Ash's claim that Germany sets an example of how to deal with the aftermath of a dictatorship is absurd (Comment, 17 March). Indeed, he admits that de-nazification \"stopped abruptly\" when West Germany became independent. It was worse than that: the Adenauer government had a deliberate policy of rehiring Nazis who had been purged by the allied occupation authorities. The vast majority of German war criminals got away with it, and drew comfortable pensions for their crimes. Companies like Krupp that had been the engine of the Third Reich were equally important in the Federal Republic. Garton Ash ignores the most obvious difference between the postwar German situation and those now arising: unpopular dictators are now being overthrown by their own people. Hitler was very popular with the Germans (probably more so than Churchill with the British) and was overthrown by foreign conquest. Those war criminals who were punished were condemned by allied military courts, not by West German ones. \"Victors' justice\" was surely preferable to accomplices' justice.John WilsonLondon\u2022 Timothy Garton Ash's amnesia about the way West Germany dealt with its Nazi past is astounding. Hitler's chief of counterinsurgency became the Federal Republic's top intelligence agent; Nazi generals like Speidel and Kissinger continued to serve in the top echelons of the army; leading judges, doctors and academics who served the Nazis with ardent commitment continued in their former posts, while those who had fought the fascists were often persecuted, had their pensions docked and were treated as lepers. The present orchestrated campaign against the GDR state security forces has more to do with extirpating any remaining \"nostalgia\" for the GDR and of the idea of an alternative to capitalism than it does with a desire to overcome the past.John GreenLondon", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa", "War crimes", "Law", "Adolf Hitler"], "title": "Letters: Germany is no example for ex-dictatorships"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:05:06Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Leipzig is fast catching Berlin as a setting for innovative arts, particularly the city's Baumwollspinnerei (spinnerei.de), a former factory that now hosts dozens of eclectic galleries and artists' studios. The Spinnerei is the venue for British artist Jim Whiting's Bimbotown Parties (bimbotown.de, next one 2 April), a mix of music, theatre and lots of crazy stuff by artists from all over Europe. Tickets are sought after but some can usually be bought on the door. The cafe at the Galerie f\u00fcr Zeitgen\u00f6ssische Kunst (gfzk.de) is redesigned every two years by artists and called Kafic in its current version after a makeover by artist-architects Apolonija Sustersic and Meike Schalk. Stay in the Meisterzimmer, a room of 116m\u00b2 right in the middle of the Spinnerei (meisterzimmer.de, \u20ac80 for two, \u20ac160 for up to six people).Beer is so much a part of the fabric of life in Germany that it even has a role to play in monastic existence. The best example is the fabulous Weltenburg Benedictine monastery (klosterschenke-weltenburg.de), dramatically sited on a surging bend in the Danube near Regensburg. Here the monks run what is purported to be the oldest brewery in the world, and their dark beer is potent stuff. Visitors sit at tables in the monastery courtyard, quaffing and eating under spreading chestnut trees, and there's always the option of confession, either before or after, in the monastery's bewilderingly over-decorated rococo church.German actress Jessica Schwarz, a 33-year-old former model who is now among the country's acting elite, has somehow found time to convert an old listed building in her home town of Michelstadt into a boutique hotel. Die Tr\u00e4umerei's 17th-century building houses just four chic and individually designed rooms, as well as a cafe (die-traeumerei.com). Michelstadt itself is in the Odenwald forest, and ideally placed for Heidelberg, Germany's stunning university town, as well as being only 45 minutes from Frankfurt airport. From \u20ac135 for a double room.The largest fruit orchard in northern Europe is in the outskirts of Hamburg, and reachable through the city's S-Bahn system. And yet Altes Land, as the name suggests, is still a deeply traditional place, and it is particularly spectacular at blossom time (late April/early May, tourismus-altesland.de). The landscape is carefully preserved and comes complete with some of the finest half-timbered farmhouses in north Germany. Start exploring from the ancient port town of Stade, the terminus of S-Bahn line 3.Hay hotels are a peculiarly German institution, and an excellent old-fashioned adventure. They're at their best in the giant brick-built farmhouses of northern Germany, where the farmer and his stock all used to sleep under one roof. Many of those farms now open their hay barns (with attached bathroom facilities) to cyclists, who weave unhurriedly towards them across Niedersachsen's tapestry of dykes, marshland and heath (niedersachsen-tourism.de/en). This is ideal family cycling country, with big skies, dedicated cycle tracks, farmyard animals galore and minimal overnight costs, which include an immense farmhouse breakfast.Germany may not be a first-choice destination for ardent skiers, but you can't fault the ambition, and the accessibility, of one of its (almost unknown) ski regions. Sauerland, a hilly area east of D\u00fcsseldorf, describes itself as the \"largest snow paradise north of the Alps\", despite its comparatively low peaks and patchy snowfall (wintersport-arena.de). There are more than 120 ski lifts and a lively apr\u00e8s-ski, and it is good for beginners and intermediates. There's lots of entertainment for no-snow days, such as riding the Taxi-Bob, a bobsleigh run that can reach speeds of 80mph.The Mecklenburg lake district (mecklenburg-lakes.com) is a region of a thousand lakes and watercourses about 70km north of Berlin, and is pillowed in soft woodland and rolling agricultural land. These living waterways have long been a mecca for German boating holidays, although their appeal is more akin to the seductiveness of the Norfolk Broads than the drama of the UK's Lake District. Homemade boathouses line the shores, and youngsters still set off on motorised rafts for watery adventures, like something out of Huckleberry Finn. You can rent sophisticated cabin cruisers here too.The city's tradition as a hub for art dates back hundreds of years. In the 20th century, Joseph Beuys set up shop at the prestigious Kunstakademie (Academy of Arts) and the Becher School photography movement gave birth to household names such as Andreas Gursky and Candida H\u00f6fer. The Kunst Palast (smkp.de) and NRW Forum (nrw-forum.de) are key locations for contemporary exhibitions. The latter is currently showing Zeitgeist and Glamour, with works by David Bailey, Diane Arbus and Andy Warhol.The Sorbs are Germany's most enduring ethnic minority, and they've lived in a crescent of land in modern Brandenburg since the sixth century. Here, the Spreewald (spreewald.de) is a watery mosaic of channels, meadows, fields and forests fed by the river Spree, and easily accessible from Berlin. Key towns are L\u00fcbben and Lehde, where a lot of travel (including tours) is still by boat. Gherkins are a big industry for Sorb farmers, and every April the region hosts a unique Spreewald marathon, which involves running, cycling, walking, and paddling. The starting command? \"Auf die Gurke, fertig, los\" (gherkin, steady, go!) \u2013 not something you're likely to hear at the 2012 Olympics.\"Bankfurt\" is not all about gleaming capitalism, for Frankfurt's Main river undergoes a bank-side transformation in summertime to become a large outdoor bar. Favourites such as the Maincaf\u00e9, with its deckchairs and beach vibe, (between Untermainbr\u00fccke und Holbeinsteg) attract a relaxed crowd. Hafenbar (near Alte Br\u00fccke on the north bank of the river) is the beach bar outpost of the Stereobar club, where visitors can bring their own food. And the city's famous King Kamehameha gets down to the river as well in summer with its King Kamehameha Beach Club (king-kamehameha.de).Budapest doesn't have a monopoly on art nouveau baths. M\u00fcller'sches Volksbad, the \"people's spa\" (swm.de/privatkunden/m-baeder) next to Munich's Isar river is a gem, its murals and stucco the polar opposite of today's sleek and stylish spa designs. Opened in Rosenheimer Strasse in 1901, it is named after engineer (and benefactor) Karl M\u00fcller and it has been kept in its original condition. There are two pools, a steam bath and saunas. Early swimmers (doors open at 7.30am) get a discount and pay only \u20ac2.60 instead of \u20ac3.80.When M\u00fcnchner speak affectionately of Die Glocke, they are referring to an area of trendy shops, easy-going cafes and bars in the Glockenbachviertel and G\u00e4rtnerplatzviertel districts. It's a far cry from pricy Maximilianstrasse, the city's Gucci and Prada mile. Try Westerm\u00fchlstrasse and Klenzestrasse for fashion, as well as Eisenbl\u00e4tter-Triska (Hans-Sachs-Strasse 13, eisenblaetter-triska.de) for quirky hat creations, or boutique Kleider machen Leute (Reichenbachstrasse 10, kleidermachenleute-shop.de) for clothes and style advice. There's plenty of nightlife too, from relaxed retro at Trachtenvogl (Reichenbachstrasse 47, trachtenvogl.de) to easy listening, funk, electro, house and soul at Ksar Barclub (M\u00fcllerstrasse 31, ksar-barclub.de). The area is also the centre of Munich's gay community with clubs and bars mainly between Thalkirchnerstrasse and Fraunhoferstrasse.Paddle steamers were once the monarchs of the European river systems, but these days they are rare. Except, of course, if you're in Dresden, that reconstructed jewel of an imperial city, because a whole fleet of old beauties operates from this Florence of the Elbe (saechsische-dampfschiffahrt.de). Decks quivering, funnels billowing, paddles kiss-kissing the water, they thump upriver to the castle at Pillnitz (schloesser-dresden.de), and then onwards into mountainous Saxon Switzerland. From their final destination at Bad Schandau, it is only 45 minutes back to Dresden by train.Man has planted his mucky feet firmly into most corners of this planet, but the sea bed has so far been mainly off-limits. Not so in the vast intertidal zones of the Wadden Sea, those enormous tidal flats on the north coast of Germany, where the ebb tide often retreats as far as 10km. Walking out across these mostly sandy flats is called Wattwandern (wattwandern.de), but there's mud here too, of a quality that spa addicts would pay good money for. On certain tides you can walk right out to the Frisian islands, and then catch a ferry back on the returning tide. Go with a guide.X marks the spot where the AlpspiX viewing platform (zugspitze.de/en/summer/berg/garmisch-classic/alpspix.htm) hangs out over a thousand-metre void in the lee of the 2,962-metre Zugspitze, Germany's highest mountain, in southern Bavaria. Two metal walkways cross arms as they reach out into giddy nothingness, and you need to keep your nerve if you intend to walk the full 42 feet to the end of each, especially when it wobbles. The AlpspiX is reached via the Alpspitze cable car from the ski resort of Garmisch-Partenkirchen, \u20ac22 return.Everyone knows Neuschwanstein, the fairytale Bavarian Schloss that inspired Disneyland's Sleeping Beauty Castle, but millions queue for its (perfunctory) tour every year. Far better to take a hike up Schachen to the King's House (schloesser.bayern.de, admission \u20ac4.50) an extraordinary mountain-top retreat also built by castle-obsessed King Ludwig II of Bavaria, and have its bizarre Turkish-themed salon to yourself. It's a four-hour walk up from the car park at Elmau, near Garmisch-Partenkirchen, and you can overnight for as little as \u20ac10 in the next door Schachenhaus (schachenhaus.de), which also serves hot food and cold beer.We may not have heard of Baiersbronn here in the UK, but this small rural community in the Black Forest is a gourmet valley of international repute. Its nine small villages can boast seven Michelin stars, divided between three chefs. They are Harald Wohlfahrt (Schwarzwaldstube/3 stars, traube-tonbach.de), Claus-Peter Lumpp (Restaurant Bareiss/3 stars, bareiss.com) and J\u00f6rg Sackmann (Schlossberg/1 star, hotel-sackmann.de). If you don't feel like joining the queue for a reservation, Baiersbronn is also a prime hiking destination and ramblers can roam the forests on walks guided by a local chef, who'll reveal nature at its tastiest (baiersbronn.de).The Palatinate region, up against the border with France, is where Germany gets super-excited about food and wine. The German Wine Route runs here, with lots of tastings and good little restaurants. In March, the Mandelbl\u00fcte (almond blossom) makes the hills blush. The Ketschauer Hof (from \u20ac220 for a double room, ketschauer-hof.com) in Deidesheim is a stylish conversion of a winemaker's old manor house. In nearby Speyer, more than 1,500 years old and home of the Unesco-recognised Speyerer Dom (imperial cathedral), visitors can explore the city's rich history on a culinary walking tour (\u20ac52 per person, fourth Friday of every month, speyer.de), stopping off at different restaurants for each course of their three-course meal.Put your pedal to the metal on Germany's original grand prix track, the N\u00fcrburgring (nurburgring.de), a looping circuit through the forested Eifel hills. The 14-mile Nordschleife includes 73 right-angle bends and was used as a Formula One circuit until the cars simply became too fast for it. When Niki Lauda was badly injured in 1976 the drivers refused to compete there again, with Jackie Stewart christening it \"green hell\". These days you can drive around it yourself in your own car and see whether you agree, but just don't get distracted by the scenery.The Oktoberfest has lots of siblings all over the country, and it doesn't always have to be about beer. A reliable way to get pleasantly beschwipst (tipsy \u2013 good word!) is by mixing fruit and alcohol. German summertime favourite Erdbeerbowle (a mix of white wine, sparkling wine and strawberries) is a great beschwipst-er and is best enjoyed on a warm evening at the Wilhelmstrassenfest street festival in elegant spa town Wiesbaden (this year from 2-4 June, wiesbaden.de). If you must have beer, the Bergkirchweih festival in Erlangen (9-20 June, erlangen.de), dates back to the 18th century. And Bamberg, beer city par excellence, hosts the Sandkerwa (25-29 August, bamberg.info), when the output of the city's own eight breweries is supplemented by the arrival of outside beer makers, who set up stalls in the old city.The UK and Germany share a love of gardens. Schleswig-Holstein's \"Garden trails between the seas\" (the North Sea and the Baltic Sea) is a selection of nine routes that can be covered by bike (best, it's flat here!) or car (sh-tourismus.de/en/garden-trails). Each route takes in 10 different gardens and parks plus stopovers in tree nurseries or garden cafes. Apart from discovering northern German garden culture, it's a fantastic way to explore a region that is usually off the radar for Brits.Andrew Eames and Barbara Geier are editors of germanyiswunderbar.com", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Munich holidays", "Frankfurt holidays", "Dresden holidays", "Boating holidays", "Cultural trips", "Food and drink", "Short breaks", "City breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Wunderbar! The best of Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-18T12:29:32Z", "country": "germany", "content": "One of the biggest recent news stories in Germany involved a plagiarism scandal that brought down the defence minister, Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg. Perhaps this is a fitting moment, therefore, to recall another case of plagiarism that rocked the literary world at the beginning of 2010.The debut novel by the Berlin author Helene Hegemann, who was 18 at the time, had the unusual title of Axolotl Roadkill and made headlines with its depiction of a teenage girl's drug-addled adventures in Berlin's club scene. But the author found herself attracting headlines of an entirely unwelcome kind when it was revealed that she had borrowed liberally from other writers, including a blogger who goes by the name Airen. The initial enthusiasm for the book quickly melted away, and some critics may have wondered how they had allowed themselves to get caught up in the hysteria over what turned out to be a minor literary event.Perhaps that's why a large swath of German readers are pleased that there is at least one person who never loses his cool, namely the former chancellor Helmut Schmidt. Four of his non-fiction works are among the 10 most successful books of the past 10 years, including Unser Jahrhundert (\"Our Century\"), a conversation with the historian Fritz Stern, which was published in 2010. In Germany it's no longer the pope or J\u00fcrgen Habermas who satisfies the country's yearning for moral guidance, but Schmidt. The former chancellor is depicted on the jacket of Unser Jahrhundert holding his ever-present cigarette, something that is also part of his aura: he not only defies the zeitgeist in his opinions, he even flouts the advice of the medical establishment.The grand old man of German politics would probably frown on another class of author that has proved popular in Germany in recent years: the self-deprecating egocentric. They write entirely about their own experiences from an ironic perspective, and churn out tongue-in-cheek books about such diverse topics as getting old, snoring and having children. One of the most successful works of the genre is the recent Achtung Baby! (\"Look Out Baby!\") by the comedian Michael Mittermeier. For his generation, it seems, becoming a father is not so much a normal biological process as a lifestyle choice.Thomas Hettche also focused on the theme of family in his novel Die Liebe der V\u00e4ter (\"The Love of the Fathers\"), which deals with the relationship between a father and his estranged daughter. Literary critics welcomed the book, partly because its publication coincided with a landmark decision on custody law by Germany's highest court. But Hettche's novel suffered the same fate as Hegemann's book \u2013 only a few weeks after its publication, the critics began to find fault with it.The daughter in Hettche's novel is portrayed as a modern child who spends much of her time texting and listening to her iPod. What could be more shocking than to go without the tools of modern communication? In Ohne Netz (\"Without the Internet\"), Alex R\u00fchle writes about his \"half year offline\". As it happens, this type of \"self-experiment\" has become increasingly popular among German non-fiction authors, who try to live strictly in accordance with the Bible, say, or forgo sex completely.One of the standout works in the genre is Karen Duve's Anst\u00e4ndig essen (\"Eating Properly: How I Tried to Become a Better Person\"), in which the author tries out a variety of green-tinged diets such as vegetarianism and veganism. The result is not so much a polemic as a personal investigation into the food industry and factory farming. In Germany, where there are now plans to build the largest poultry slaughterhouse in Europe, with the capacity for slaughtering 130m chickens a year, it makes sense to be more aware of the side effects of industrial-scale breeding, fattening and killing. The book seemed to be Germany's contribution to a discussion on the ethics of eating sparked by the publication of Jonathan Safran Foer's Eating Animals.Much more controversial \u2013 and successful \u2013 was Thilo Sarrazin's Deutschland schafft sich ab (\"Germany Does Away With Itself\"). This treatise by a former Bundesbank board member is \u2013 to put it mildly \u2013 highly critical of immigration and Muslims, who he claims are threatening the very fabric of German society. The tremendous success of Sarrazin's theories says a lot about the way society is going in Germany, where even the liberal chattering classes unashamedly complain there are \"too many foreigners\" in their kids' schools.Sarrazin's book sold more than 1m copies, contributing significantly to a year-on-year rise in the sales of non-fiction books of 20%. The fiction market, on the other hand, was extremely weak. The bestseller lists are dominated by globally successful fantasy authors such as Stephenie Meyer, or by crime fiction writers such as Britain's Simon Beckett and the American author Elizabeth George.More challenging fare was provided by Melinda Nadj Abonji. Her novel Tauben fliegen auf (\"Falcons without Falconers\"), a family drama about Yugoslavian immigrants in Switzerland, won the 2010 German Book Prize, Germany's answer to the Booker. But unlike previous winners by authors such as Katharina Hacker, Julia Franck and Uwe Tellkamp \u2013 all reliable suppliers of highly marketable light novels for a moderately demanding reading public \u2013 Abonji's novel was a commercial disaster, just reaching number 50 on the bestseller list shortly before Christmas.New books by G\u00fcnter Grass and Christa Wolf reminded us that there were once such things as great German writers. Gruppe 47 (Group 47), a literary association that influenced an entire era and encompassed the country's best authors, disbanded long ago. Which author under 60 could play that role today? Thomas Lehr, perhaps, whose September. Fata Morgana is a linguistic tour de force set in the aftermath of 9/11 and is both celebrated and controversial. Pedantic critics derided it for not having a single punctuation mark (despite the full stop in the title), as if punctuation has anything to do with literature.Next to Lehr's book, the most striking work in stylistic terms was Peter Wawerzinek's Rabenliebe (\"Motherless Child\"). The autobiographical novel seems almost anachronistic, like something from the days when lederhosen-wearing poets declaimed at open windows. The fact that this powerful writer grew up in the communist German Democratic Republic will perhaps encourage some East German intellectuals to claim that the workers' state was a republic of scholars. But anyone who has read Rabenliebe knows that it was a cold, brutal childhood that prompted Wawerzinek to escape into literature.Today the former East Germany is on the road to becoming the Wild East for writers from the west. In Deutschboden (\"On German Soil\"), described as an exercise in \"participatory observation\", Moritz von Uslar spends time with the natives of a Brandenburg village, while Wolfgang Herrndorf's Tschick dispatches two adolescents through the same state in a stolen Lada. The latter was a surprise success.Readers may be wondering at this point whether Basil Fawlty's famous dictum \"Don't mention the war\" also applies to contemporary German literature. But one current literary sensation is a previously almost forgotten novel that deals with the Nazi era. Jeder stirbt f\u00fcr sich allein (\"Every Man Dies Alone\") by Hans Fallada (1893-1947) is the story of a Berlin couple executed by the Nazis; it was recently republished in Germany in its original version. Like the liberation from Hitler in 1945, Germans can also thank the Allies for giving them Fallada's novel back: its republication was inspired by the book's tremendous success in Britain and the United States (as Alone in Berlin).1 Hummeldumm by Tommy Jaud (comic novel about German holidaymakers in Namibia)2 Erbarmen (Mercy) by Jussi Adler-Olsen (Danish crime)3 Fall of Giants by Ken Follett (five families in the first world war)4 The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner by Stephenie Meyer5 Deutschland schafft sich ab (Germany Does Away with Itself) by Thilo\u00a0Sarrazin", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Germany", "Culture", "Fiction", "Biography", "Politics"], "title": "What they're reading in Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-14T09:26:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "9.24am: Guten Morgen! As part of the Guardian's month-long Europe season, I'm live blogging today from the Hamburg offices of Der Spiegel, Germany's most celebrated news magazine. Der Spiegel has long been a German institution and is essential reading for anyone who wants to understand Germany or German politics, so it should be a good base.The Guardian's editor-in-chief, Alan Rusbridger sets out the purpose of our Europe series here. \"Too often Europe is discussed and reported through its common institutions or purely in terms of its relations with Britain,\" he writes.Here are a few highlights of our coverage today: We've got the results of a Europe-wide ICM poll that shows trust in politicians at rock bottom around Europe \u2013 and the lack of trust is greatest in Poland and France.Today's focus is on Germany and we have a provocative comment piece  from Hans-Olaf Henkel, a former president of the Federation of German Industries, who argues that the euro should be split in two \u2013 a northern zone with a strong adherence to \"monetary and budgetary stability, and a southern zone that would reflect a \"free-spending mentality and talent for monetary improvisation\". And the headline of the day award goes to this piece about German theatre by Guardian critic Michael Billington, \"Don't mention the phwoar\".You can read the rest of the Guardian's coverage here. Later today, I'm interviewing Der Spiegel's editor-in-chief, Georg Mascolo.I want to ask him about Angela Merkel, WikiLeaks' revelations, and Der Spiegel's relationship with Julian Assange. (Unlike the Guardian and New York Times, Der Spiegel is still on friendly terms with the WikiLeaks founder.) You can find the Guardian's coverage from Germany today here. Spiegel Online is currently leading with the latest explosion at the Japanese nuclear reactor in Fukushima.9.30am: Morning conference in the offices of Spiegel Online has just got under way. The main theme of discussion is Japan and the rapidly worsening situation at the Fukushima reactor. There's a view among Spiegel journalists that the Japanese government is deliberately underplaying the scale of the crisis in order to prevent panic breaking out among Japan's population. Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron, Spiegel's chief editor, puts it like this: \"These are historic days. The news we've had in the last few minutes suggests that the nuclear reactor's core could be heading for a meltdown.\"9.54am: There's a knock on the door. Urgent news from Berlin: the German government has decided to review the decision to prolong the country's nuclear reactor programme. The catastrophe in Japan has provoked a massive debate about what to do with Germany's own ageing nuclear power stations. The Greens and Social Democrats want the stations to be phased out immediately (remember Atomkraft? Nein Danke!). But Angela Merkel's coalition government recently decided to keep them in service. The government now seems to be having a major wobble.More discussion in the Spiegel conference about how to cover the events in Japan. There's much praise for Spiegel's hastily employed Japanese translator. And apparently an amateur scientist in Tokyo is running round posting live radiation levels on Facebook.10.26am: Conference is over and I'm now installed on the sixth floor of Spiegel Online's offices in Hamburg. Just across the road is the historic building where the main Spiegel magazine is based. The 11-storey block was built in the 1960s and is justifiably famous: its canteen is decorated in lurid oranges and reds. It looks like something out of the film Barbarella. Jule Lutteroth, Spiegel Online's deputy editor-in-chief, tells me there used to be an equally funky swimming pool in the basement. Now, boringly, it houses Spiegel's archives. (Each floor was decorated with its own colour scheme: journalists working on foreign news sat in rooms painted in a hideous dark blue. They eventually demanded a new colour scheme.) Der Spiegel, Spiegel Online and Spiegel TV are moving in August to a new building just down the road. This may be progress, but this modern penthouse is duller than Spiegel's old home.11.20am: I've just had a fascinating chat with Olaf Kanter, Spiegel Online's managing editor. Unlike in Britain, where the newspaper industry seems to be in its death throes, Der Spiegel is making a healthy profit, he tells me. Germany's advertising industry recovered strongly in the second half of last year, he says, and the magazine is selling about 1m copies every week. And it's not only German newspapers doing well: the car-makers BMW, Mercedes, and VW are all posting record profits. \"We haven't suffered like England. You have a much bigger financial services industry. We build more things. Our exports have rescued us,\" Kanter says. Generally, Germans seems much more optimistic than Brits. One of my old friends in Hamburg, Stefan Schaefer, works for the travel agency Travel Overland. We had dinner last night in one of Hamburg's cheap and cheerful Turkish restaurants; he's busier than ever, he says.12.03pm: Another dramatic development: Der Spiegel has decided to pull its reporter out of Tokyo because of the risk a Chernobyl-style radiation cloud could reach the Japanese capital. Thilo Thielke, Spiegel's veteran war correspondent, is leaving Japan today. Spiegel is now covering the story from Bangkok and the south of Japan. Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron says the latest information is ominous: the wind is blowing from the north \u2013 in the direction of Tokyo. \"Perhaps this is a piece of German angst. But no country is more against nuclear power than Germany,\" he says. He adds: \"The wind is shifting from the north and could blow a cloud south directly to Tokyo. This is really horrible. I think this is a big, big crisis and a wake-up call for nuclear energy.\" The German embassy is also making preparations to evacuate some staff, apparently.12.06pm: There is good coverage of Japan in Spiegel Online International, Spiegel's English language window. In an opinion piece Rolland Nelles, a one-time fan of nuclear energy, says in the wake of Fukushima German chancellor Angela Merkel (pictured) will be forced to modify her pro-nuclear stance. He writes:Even the last remaining advocates of the technology must realise that we can't go on like this. It is over. Done. Finished. Nuclear energy cannot be controlled by humans, no matter how good the arguments might be in its favour. The danger of disaster is real, and it can happen at any time \u2013 even in a super hi-tech country like Japan. And it could also happen here in Germany. A sense of security when it comes to atomic reactors is no longer possible. Not anywhere.12.19pm: A few non-Japan stories caught my eye this morning. The German tabloids all report on a driver high on drugs who ploughed into a group of pedestrians in Hamburg yesterday afternoon, killing four of them. One of the victims was Dietmar Mues, an actor in the popular and long-running German police series Tatort (Crime Scene). His wife Sibylle also died. The accident took place in Eppendorf, an affluent part of Hamburg. (I know the area well: my best friend in Hamburg, Michael Fleischer, had an aunt who lived nearby.) Bild Zeitung calls it a \"horror-accident\" (German only).Oh, and a gang of punks are apparently stealing Hamburg's dogs. They have so far made off with a three-month-old bulldog, Joker, as well as a labrador, Buddy, and a sheepdog-mongrel Milo, Bild says.12.58pm: I'm about to try out Spiegel's legendary canteen over the road. But before I go off and grab a Br\u00f6tchen I ask Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron about relations between Germany and England. (In 2006 I wrote an essay arguing the World Cup had transformed Germany's image in the eyes of the British media, and ordinary Brits. The Nazi cliches were over, more or less, I suggested.) Mathias tells me that the Germans don't feel schadenfreude at Britain's current economic woes. He says: \"You have a tricky and difficult situation. David Cameron has to see through a public sector cuts programme of unheard of proportions. I'm surprised there isn't a revolution in Britain going on. We don't like to see other European countries suffer, especially not Britain. I love London. I'm often in Britain. What would Europe do without British newspapers like the Economist, Guardian and FT?\"Der Spiegel hasn't nailed down its plans yet, but is almost certainly going to cover next month's royal wedding. It may even do a live-ticker! Could Der Spiegel be more interested in the royal wedding than the republican Guardian?2.28pm: The Spiegel canteen lived up to its billing! The decor with its space-age ceiling lamps and funky wall balls is a breathtaking piece of 60s modernist kitsch. The chips aren't bad either. Verner Panton is the man who designed it. You can see more examples of his work here on Flickr .The canteen is due to close, alas, in five months' time when Spiegel moves house.I'm off to see Georg Mascolo, Spiegel's editor-in-chief. I'll report back shortly.3.13pm: I talked to Georg Mascolo for 20 minutes \u2013 not bad, given the huge running story in Japan. I asked Mascolo about Julian Assange (pictured) and WikiLeaks. (Assange collaborated with the Guardian, New York Times and Der Spiegel in the release of secret US state department cables last year, as well as war logs from Iraq and Afghanistan. He is no longer on speaking terms with the Guardian and New York Times teams.Mascolo says of Assange: \"He's a very interesting guy. I always thought he might end up running Facebook or Google rather than WikiLeaks. I think we can admire the achievements. We all see his very difficult personality.\" The Spiegel editor-in-chief recalls a tense meeting last November when Assange threatened to boot the Guardian and New York Times out of the newspaper consortium publishing the secret US government communiques. \"There was a moment when he decided only Spiegel would go ahead with printing the cables. I refused and said I was very happy with the relationship with the New York Times and Guardian. We would not accept any split with our group.\"Two Spiegel journalists, Marcel Rosenbach and Holger Stark, have written a German-language book about WikiLeaks, currently on Germany's non-fiction bestseller list.3.28pm: Mascolo also had some interesting things to say about the media industry. He doesn't believe that newspapers should give away their content. Much of Spiegel's success \u2013 it posted huge profits last year \u2013 is due to the fact that Spiegel Online and the Spiegel magazine have almost entirely different editorial content, he says. (Spiegel Online posts only four or five articles from the weekly print edition. Its editorial operation is separate.) Mascolo politely criticises the Guardian's online model, where you can read all the paper's content for free. He says: \"We decided years ago to raise the price for the magazine. It's already \u20ac4 (\u00a33). You might say this is a lot of money but it isn't much more than a cafe latte in Starbucks. I don't believe in journalism for free. I believe if you want to have good quality you have to pay for it.\"3.38pm: Thanks for all your comments about my \"liquid lunch\"! I can assure you I haven't drunk anything stronger than tea since arriving in Hamburg on Sunday.Breaking news: Angela Merkel has just announced a three-month \"delay\" on the German government's decision to extend the lifespan of Germany's ageing nuclear power plants. Her move is clearly in response to events in Japan. But it also appears to be linked to regional elections later this month in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg (and two other federal states) where Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) are running neck and neck with the centre-left Social Democrats. The CDU has controlled Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg for almost 60 years; losing it would be an enormous blow to Merkel's coalition. The nuclear power station debate has dominated the election campaign (German only).4.19pm: My colleague Juan Gomez from El Pais has taken this photo of Mascolo's office on the 11th-floor of Spiegel Towers. There is an amazing panoramic view of the city. On Mascolo's wall is a sign saying: \"Keep calm and carry on.\" He also has a cushion in the colours of the German flag with the words: \"Geld allein macht nicht gl\u00fccklich!\" (Money alone doesn't make you happy!) on a black leather sofa.According to Mascolo, Merkel has every chance of winning Germany's next general election in 2013, despite today's embarrassing U-turn over nuclear energy. \"I don't think she's going anywhere anytime soon,' he says. Merkel's biggest failing, he suggests, is that after seven years as chancellor she has still not properly explained her vision for Germany. Mascolo also says Guido Westerwelle, Germany's foreign minister, is doing better after a disappointing first two years in the job. Unlike British foreign secretary William Hague, Westerwelle \u2013 the leader of Germany's pro-business FDP party \u2013 has had a \"good\" Arab revolution. He has spoken passionately in favour of democracy in the Arab world, though Germany as a whole is opposed to any kind of military intervention in Libya or elsewhere. I'm interviewing Westerwelle on Thursday and will form my own view then.4.55pm: It's been a good day to be live blogging in Germany: after decades of debate the Germans really do appear (unlike the French) to be calling time on their nuclear energy industry. The subject is the top of the political agenda here and today's events in Japan will ensure that it stays there. I spent four years in Germany as the Guardian's correspondent in Berlin (2003-2006) before moving to Russia, from where I was recently, and unhappily, expelled. I've always been struck by how the Germans manage to do things more successfully than the Brits. Today's visit to Der Spiegel has merely confirmed this view. German newspapers are still hugely profitable, (ours are virtually bankrupt) and there seems to be a view here that both journalists and journalism has a future. The German economy has already recovered, while ours is mired in gloom.The Guardian will be covering Germany for the rest of this week as part our month-long Europe season. After that it's on to France, from where Alexandra Topping will be live blogging from Monday. Thanks for all your comments and Tsch\u00fcss! ", "tags": ["Europe", "World news", "Germany", "Media", "Magazines"], "title": "New Europe live blog - Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:04:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Experience the beauty of the Amazon and learn about its wildlife, ecology and complexity at this magical attraction \u2013 inside a 30m-high old gasometer. It features a giant 360\u00b0 panoramic recreation of the rainforest. Bring or hire binoculars so you can spot animals in the 'forest' \u2013 and listen out for their calls. It's a great combination of originality and information.Richard-Lehman Strasse 114, +49 341 35 55 340, asisi.de; entrance \u20ac10 adults, \u20ac5 childrenLesley46Dachgarten at the ReichstagAvoid the queues at the Reichstag for the price of breakfast by booking online at the restaurant Dachgarten. Go straight to the front of any queue to get into the Reichstag and tell them you have booked breakfast, get your name checked off the list by the guards and get escorted through security by your personal escort to the lift that carries you to the restaurant at the foot of the glass dome. Terrific breakfast (and we are vegetarian) and then we had the run of the dome and fabulous views over Berlin. Awesome. Platz der Republik 1, +49 30 2262 9933, bundestag.deLilianhandyEast Side GalleryIt's a 1.3km length of the Berlin Wall with amazing artwork, recently restored. Pollution and graffiti ruined the first lot so get to see it before this happens again.M\u00fchlenstrasse 1, eastsidegallery.comtheairsZwiebelfischWith the demise of Gainsbourg (it's been turned into a supermarket) there's only Zwiebelfisch and Diener flying the flag for old Berlin in this chic square between the K'Damm (Kurf\u00fcrstendamm) and Kantstrasse. Once a hotbed of revolutionary chatter, it's now a very laidback joint that seems totally at ease with itself. Papered in thousands of posters and old photos, it's got a chilled-out vibe thanks in no small measure to the genial owner, a veteran of West Berlin's pre-1989 counter culture. Zwiebelfisch, incidentally, is an old printing expression meaning a letter printed in the wrong font.Savignyplatz 7, +49 30 312 73 63, zwiebelfisch-berlin.deTimETempelhof airportThis now-disused terminal is the third largest building in the world, and the scale is breathtaking, in particular the vast arrivals hall, which was designed by Ernst Sagebiel. He worked in the same offices as Albert Speer, Hitler's architect. It is that worrying link with the past that makes walking through the site all the more interesting. It is particularly eerie now it is empty but there are plenty of reminders of the airport's previous life as a major international terminal and the role it played in the 1948 Berlin Airlift. The US military used it as a base during the cold war, from 1945, and their old offices are left exactly as they were immediately after their departure in 1993. Brilliant.+49 30 6091 1660, berlin-airport.de; the airport tour lasts two hours and costs \u20ac8ppJGNaughtonX-Terrain barGreat little cellar bar in Oranienburger Strasse. Go down the steps and be greeted by the bowler-hatted Ian Dury-esque owner/designer of this DIY retro establishment. Homemade artworks and paraphenalia adorn the brick walls, candles drip wax over their holders \u2013 soak up the smoke-filled ambience and Rolling Stones grooves. Relax on a big-armed sofa and discuss the Tacheles art collective (just along the road) over a Berliner Weisse, green or red. A real taste of creative, underground Berlin.Oranienburger Strasse 40WillJohnson747Strand Pauli Beach ClubStrand Pauli is one of several beach clubs in Hamburg with a great view of the river Elbe. It's near Landungsbr\u00fccken, just 15 minutes from the Hauptbahnhof, Hamburg's central train station. Here you will find good music, German beer and food direct from the barbecue. Relax on comfortable beach furniture under palm trees with your toes in the sand, which is brought each summer from the North Sea coast.Hafenstrasse 89, +49 163 733 58 32, strandpauli.deEppendorferLake DistrictDespite being only a short car or train journey from Berlin, the idyllic region around the Scharm\u00fctzelsee and its smaller lakes is as off the beaten track, as reasonably priced and untouristy as they come. You can pamper yourself in the thermal brine spas at Bad Saarow, spend the night in the opulent surroundings of the fairytale Schloss Hubertush\u00f6he, a former royal hunting lodge, or just take in the unspoilt beaches, woodland and wildlife.Bad Saarow spa, +49 33 631 8680, bad-saarow.de; Schloss Hubertush\u00f6he, hubertushoehe.deBurgermeisterschechThe AldstadtThe city that gave us Kraftwerk also gave us some of the finest beer in the world. The Altstadt is crammed with traditional German beerhalls selling the renowned Altbier. This top-fermented ale is best sampled in the four brewpubs, each with their own distinctive tipple served from the barrel. The oldest is Schumacher, not far from the station, and the other three \u2013 the F\u00fcchschen, Schl\u00fcssel and Uerige \u2013 are in the Altstadt.Oststrasse 123, +49 21 1828 9020, schumacher-alt.deTroutiemcfishWein und Biersh\u00e4nkeFamous for its Flammkuchen and Neuwein, the Sh\u00e4nke restaurant has been satisfying the hunger of both locals and tourists since 1982. The friendly atmosphere is great for any type of gathering, with its flea-market decor and wooden beams.Flammkuchen is a huge rectangular slice of deliciousness, traditionally topped with bacon and onion. It's similar to the humble pizza, but has a sauce made of quark (a type of cheese) instead of tomato. My favourite is half topped with feta and jalape\u00f1os, with the other half covered in mushrooms, onions, sweetcorn and kidney beans. Its non-alcoholic KiBa cocktail (half cherry-half banana) is my favourite accompaniment, except for in September and October, when the sweet-tasting Neuwein is in season.N\u00e4he Dom, Wollstrasse 7-9, +49 62 412 4919, weinundbierschaenke.deemilyreactsCafe BeegCafe Beeg is an old-school German cafe, with a formal atmosphere, delicious food, cakes and coffee. Children are welcomed \u2013 they warmed our daughter's baby meal and brought it out on a silver serving dish \u2013 and the cakes are to die for.Cafe Beeg, Gernsbacherstrasse 44-46, +49 72 213 6760NimitzThe vast Bodensee in south-east Germany is an undiscovered gem to us Brits. Base yourself in the popular island town of Lindau and stroll around the old quarter before heading out to explore the lakeside. You can cycle or walk southwards along the lake to Bregenz in Austria (having a dip in the \"See\" along the way), or take one of the many boats or catamarans across to Konstanz or Rorschach in Switzerland. Venture inland from Lindau and hike up to the top of the Pf\u00e4nder for breath-taking views. Try out the hip Youth Hostel situated on the lakeside in Lindau.Lindau Youth Hostel, +49 83 82 96 710, jugendherberge.de/jh/bayern/lindau/welshlynRiver-surf at the EisbachDespite being far from the ocean, Munich has a reputation as a surfing hotspot. It is highly entertaining to watch local surfers riding the artificial wave. When you have had enough, take a stroll in the English Garden and stop at the Chinese Tower beer garden for a bite to eat and a local beer. Bliss. The Eisbach (artificial river) at the Haus der Kunst, by the English Garden NinnytendoCafe SoloOnly one hour south of Munich by car or train, on the banks of the river Isar, Cafe Solo is a friendly, English-speaking bar and restaurant. The enchiladas are fabulous, as is the \"steak vital\" \u2013 succulent pork loins served with rice. Alternatively, relax on the covered, heated terrace overlooking the bridge and the quaint 12th-century town of Bad Tolz, with its famous mural that lines the main street, sipping a wheatbeer.K\u00f6nigsdorfer Strasse 2, cafe-solo.euArcweldThe Nebelhorn/Breitach gorgeGorgeous Oberstdorf is in the Alpine southern toe of Germany and the cable car ride up to the mountain top gives amazing views across the Alps. Down below are lovely waymarked walks by glacial rivers or through the stunning Breitach gorge. The town itself is a relaxed and reasonably priced tourist spot, popular with German holidaymakers.Oberstdorf has a station and is easily accessed by car or train from Friedrichshafen or Munich airports.oberstdorf.deAlteeGrosser ArberThe highest mountain in the Bavarian Forest, this is a wintersport resort, ideal for families and beginners, but has a couple of black runs, and it also has snowboard railpark. Snow conditions are very reliable, plus it's cheaper than the Alpine resorts and less crowded. It's only a couple of hours by train from Munich airport.visitbavaria.comgermanclairePichelsteinerfest, RegenThe largest and most popular beer festival in the Bavarian Forest \u2013 this year it's on 29 July to 3 August. A highlight is the river floats parade on the Saturday evening, illuminated by candles.pichelsteinerfest.comgermanclaire", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Berlin holidays", "Munich holidays", "Hamburg holidays", "City breaks", "Food and drink", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' tips: the best of Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:04:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "I am always being asked which German town I like best \u2013 and this, on the face of it, completely fair question always freezes me up. Dizzy with pubs, turrets, marketplaces, graveyards and shops selling odd things made from marzipan, I can no longer really tell which was which. Mystic rosebushes, miniature prisons, pulpits shaped like a tulip have all blended into a single demented townscape as the years spent\u00a0wandering happily from place to place now take their mental revenge on me.Taking a grip of myself, however, I will tend to blurt out one word: \"Bamberg\". Now I know that I liked Weikersheim more and felt more peaceful sitting outside a hermit's rock-chapel in Schw\u00e4bisch Gm\u00fcnd, but Bamberg, in Bavaria, was the place that so battered my senses that it made me want to uproot my family and live in Germany.Bamberg is built around seven hills and features the most extraordinary architecture \u2013 the cathedral, for example, crowded with the most vivid and peculiar medieval stone carvings, a monastery enclosing a garden filled with all the flowers and fruit mentioned in the Bible and with a side-chapel which includes the most enjoyable of all German representations of \"dances of death\", with a gleeful, preening, derisive skeleton capering around his victims.Many of the streets are so perfectly gnarled and gabled that you expect the population to all sing from their balconies or do Student Prince-style dances over the town's bridges, rather than merely queue at ATMs or buy sausages. The pubs fuel astonishing levels of drinking \u2013 apparently the highest per capita consumption of beer in Europe and with a real sense that in these roaring, terrible-smelling interiors the entire population is working hard to maintain this pointless eminence.Much of the action is focused on the unique Rauchbier, a local beer created by doing something to malt not viewed as rational in other places. It tastes terrible, but nonetheless gives the drinker such a feeling of localism, camaraderie and warrior strength as to be almost irresistible.The wonderful ETA Hoffmann lived for a while in Bamberg and in so much of the town you feel fully engaged with his macabre spirit \u2013 strange towers, moss-covered walls and inexplicably designed carvings, shop signs and door knockers proliferate. Even secondhand\u00a0bookshops help out with needlessly necromancy-focused window displays.But at the town's sinister \u2013 but pleasurable \u2013 heart lies the spectacular bird hall at the city's Natural History Museum (naturkundemuseum-bamberg.de), which reopened last year after heavy restoration work. This great room preserves miraculously the spirit of the late 18th century, when Bamberg was a semi-independent state and the Enlightenment in full swing.A mass of white and gold paint, the hall has somehow kept all its original fittings, which display stuffed birds, a whale jaw, glass pyramids filled with robin eggs and wax models of every fruit to be found in Bamberg, with everything somehow almost glowing with that era's atmosphere of genial inquiry.I never did get to live in Bamberg, my children skipping over the bridges strewing flower petals, my wife waving and laughing from the balcony of our pub (or, in another scenario, waving and laughing from the balcony of the bird hall curator's no-doubt charming house). But it was the inspiration of Bamberg, as well as my family's sullen refusal to uproot from south-west London, that made me fall back on the second best thing and start writing a book.", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Cultural trips", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "My travels: Simon Winder in Bavaria, Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-18T17:40:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": "When it came to the crunch, Chancellor Angela Merkel and her foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, decided that Germany should side with China and Russia. These three members of the UN security council abstained from Thursday's vote on a resolution to impose a no-fly zone over Libya, along with Brazil and India. It is a curious political development, to say the least.The three make for strange bedfellows. There is Germany, a democracy which puts great store in the rule of law and human rights, siding with a communist, one-party dictatorship and a country with a dubious track record on political freedoms. On the other side are Germany's traditional allies \u2013 the US, France and Britain \u2013 not to mention parts of the Arab and African world. Lebanon had been one of the countries presenting the resolution, which was backed by the Arab League. Qatar and the UAE have already said they would take part in a military operation, according to UN diplomats.And despite the Libyan regime's move on Friday afternoon to declare a ceasefire \u2013 at least for now \u2013 and inviting international observers into the country, Berlin's move could have lasting repercussions. Although Berlin has not blocked military action by abstaining, the German government has marginalised itself. It is effectively telling its allies: You will have to deal with this one alone \u2013 we're not going to help you.The German position, which had been agreed between Merkel and Westerwelle, had been clear for days. As a concession to its allies, Berlin will now beef up its mission in Afghanistan. There is talk of Germany taking part in AWACS surveillance flights over the country, which would take pressure off Germany's allies and free up their aircraft for operations over Libya. But is it enough?Some politicians within Merkel's centre-right coalition are already warning that Germany could be drifting even further away from France, Britain and the US. Attitudes toward Germany will change as a result of the vote, says Ruprecht Polenz, a member of parliament for Merkel's conservatives who heads up the Bundestag's foreign affairs committee. \"I don't think we've heard the last word on this,\" he said, pointing out that the EU had already announced its support for the resolution. Germany will also participate in a discussion about the resolution within the EU and Nato, Polenz said.It's clear that Westerwelle enjoys playing the role of Germany's pacifist-in-chief. Speaking in his office in Berlin on Friday morning, he justified his scepticism about a military intervention yet again. The German government sees \"significant dangers and risks\", he said, meaning that it could not support the whole resolution.Westerwelle has been striking exactly that tone for weeks now. At first, his stance earned him praise, even from the opposition. But now, given the risk that Libyan rebels could be massacred by Gaddafi's troops if they do not receive military help, Westerwelle's position seems oddly out of touch with reality. Merkel and Westerwelle apparently hope that the German \"nein\" will go down well with the electorate. That may well be the case. But within Nato, Berlin's abstention is likely to be perceived as showing a lack of solidarity with Germany's allies.Indeed, it seems as if the Merkel-Westerwelle duo have become trapped by their own position.When the insurgency against Gaddafi broke out, Westerwelle promptly stated his support for the repressed opposition. Earlier, he had initially been cautious before making any pronouncements about Tunisia and Egypt, but in the case of Libya, he quickly called out Gaddafi as a dictator, and argued in favour of EU-level sanctions against the regime in Tripoli.But when Gaddafi proved hard to topple, and his troops began a counteroffensive, retaking one city after another, Westerwelle didn't prove any more flexible in his stance. Over time, his scepticism about a no-fly zone grew into a firm \"no\". And as Britain and France lobbied for military action, a resurgent Gaddafi praised Germany's position. That fact alone should have been deeply embarrassing for Berlin.By then, at the very latest, Westerwelle and Merkel ought to have shifted their positions. Besides, by that point, the Arab states had already said they would actively participate in a no-fly zone \u2013 one of the main pre-conditions Westerwelle himself had stipulated for any UN mandate.Nevertheless, Merkel and Westerwelle stuck to their positions. In recent days, Westerwelle even intensified the tenor of his rhetoric. However, his target was not Gaddafi but, indirectly, London and Paris. Washington, for its part, had long remained undecided. Speaking on Friday morning, Westerwelle also reiterated a statement he has oft repeated in recent days: \"German soldiers will not participate in a military mission in Libya.\"It's exactly the kind of sentence that former German Chancellor Gerhard Schr\u00f6der of the centre-left Social Democratic party (SPD) might have used. During the last Iraq war, he adopted early on the position that Germany would not participate \u2013 right in the middle of a national election campaign in 2002.Westerwelle surely had similar considerations on his mind. After all, there is considerable scepticism regarding overseas military operations among the German population, and particularly amid the members of the upper-middle class who tend to vote for his business-friendly Free Democratic party. At the beginning of the year, Westerwelle's position as FDP leader looked shaky amid internal opposition. But he managed to stabilise his situation after the FDP's decent performance in elections in the city-state of Hamburg. Now the FDP faces elections this weekend in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt. A week later, pivotal votes take place in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg and Rhineland-Palatinate in western Germany that could have implications for Merkel's and Westerwelle's coalition government.Now Westerwelle is taking his cue from Schr\u00f6der, and he clearly thinks this is a recipe for domestic political success. But Schr\u00f6der was better positioned in 2002 \u2013 he also had the French on his side within the UN security council. This time around, though, France opposes Westerwelle's position, and that is a crucial difference. The Berlin-Paris axis, which is also very important for the EU, has been damaged by the split.", "tags": ["Germany", "Libya", "United Nations", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Europe", "Angela Merkel", "Muammar Gaddafi", "Africa"], "title": "Germany has marginalised itself over Libya | Severin Weiland and Roland Nelles"},{"date": "2011-03-18T00:05:09Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Timothy Garton Ash's claim that Germany sets an example of how to deal with the aftermath of a dictatorship is absurd (Comment, 17 March). Indeed, he admits that de-nazification \"stopped abruptly\" when West Germany became independent. It was worse than that: the Adenauer government had a deliberate policy of rehiring Nazis who had been purged by the allied occupation authorities. The vast majority of German war criminals got away with it, and drew comfortable pensions for their crimes. Companies like Krupp that had been the engine of the Third Reich were equally important in the Federal Republic. Garton Ash ignores the most obvious difference between the postwar German situation and those now arising: unpopular dictators are now being overthrown by their own people. Hitler was very popular with the Germans (probably more so than Churchill with the British) and was overthrown by foreign conquest. Those war criminals who were punished were condemned by allied military courts, not by West German ones. \"Victors' justice\" was surely preferable to accomplices' justice.John WilsonLondon\u2022 Timothy Garton Ash's amnesia about the way West Germany dealt with its Nazi past is astounding. Hitler's chief of counterinsurgency became the Federal Republic's top intelligence agent; Nazi generals like Speidel and Kissinger continued to serve in the top echelons of the army; leading judges, doctors and academics who served the Nazis with ardent commitment continued in their former posts, while those who had fought the fascists were often persecuted, had their pensions docked and were treated as lepers. The present orchestrated campaign against the GDR state security forces has more to do with extirpating any remaining \"nostalgia\" for the GDR and of the idea of an alternative to capitalism than it does with a desire to overcome the past.John GreenLondon", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa", "War crimes", "Law", "Adolf Hitler"], "title": "Letters: Germany is no example for ex-dictatorships"},{"date": "2011-03-14T15:08:13Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany is Europe's most populous nation, home to about 82 million people. That might be a dreadful squash were it not also one of Europe's biggest countries - and were the birth rate not plummeting. Approximately 160,000 more people die in Germany each year than are born and there are 16.7 million over-65s, though immigration keeps the population pretty constant. As a result of its postwar gastarbeiter (guest worker) recruitment drive, every fifth person now has a \"migration background\": they or their forebears moved to Germany since 1949. At the last count, around 2.8 million Turks and almost 96,000 Brits were living in Germany, and the average baby could expect to live to 81.Officially Christian, with 34% of Germans saying they are Catholic and the same percentage Protestant. There are now just over 104,000 practising Jews out of a total of approximately 240,000 living in Germany, and an estimated 4 million Muslims. Given the main party in the ruling coalition is Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union, it is no surprise that the government supports what might be called Christian values. There are big tax breaks for getting married, and there is no legal right to abortion on demand (though in practice, it is unpunishable with a foetus up to 12 weeks). Getting baptised can be an expensive business, as churches are allowed to tax members 8% or 9% of their income tax once they come of age. Germany is one of Europe's most beautiful and varied countries, but most Brits are too busy holidaying in France and Spain to have noticed. It\u00a0has a surprising 1,500 miles of stunning coastline along what we call the Baltic Sea, but which the Germans confusingly refer to as the Ostsee (East\u00a0Sea). It has numerous lakes, including the popular Bodensee in the south, which Anglophones know as Lake Constance. Then there are the vineyards of the Franconia region of Bavaria, Alpine mountains in Garmisch-Partenkirchen and natural springs around the Black Forest in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg. Germany also has a lot of neighbours: it borders Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, France, Switzerland, Austria, the Czech Republic and Poland.Bafflingly successful, even to native economists. Initially, the country with the world's fourth largest GDP struggled with the recession like everyone else. Employment figures remained fairly stable, however, and in 2010 Germany enjoyed the largest growth since the country was reunified in 1989. Many attribute this to the family-run companies that specialise in quality engineering, churning out anything from solar power panels to rollercoaster parts. A strong apprenticeship system and a\u00a0history of guild-based crafts guarantees that Germany's reputation for quality craftsmanship remains unsurpassed. With economic confidence at a high, there has been some disgruntlement with the bailouts of struggling eurozone economies such as those of Greece and Ireland. It's worth bearing in mind, though, that Germans are notoriously thrifty and, until that changes, the country's status as export kings (second only to China) continues to rely on happy shoppers abroad.Frankly too complicated even for many Germans to get their heads around properly. Parliament is made up of a lower house, the Bundestag, which is voted directly every four years, and an upper house, the Bundesrat - made up of locally elected representatives from the 16 l\u00e4nder, or regions. The Bundestag can cook up new laws, while the Bundesrat can pass or veto them. Just to make things more complicated, there is also not just one but two federal law courts which can put laws up for judicial review. Given this laborious setup, passing laws in Germany takes time - which means politicians think thrice before even considering changing legislation, and German governments tend to be rather stable affairs. It's different at municipal level, and minor laws can vary wildly. Ask the landlord before you light a cigarette in a pub.Until a recent law change, students could take as long as they liked to finish\u00a0a degree, dabbling in whichever subjects they fancied and postponing their exams if they didn't quite feel up to it when the day came. And with negligible tuition fees, who can blame them? This has resulted in swaths of\u00a0broadly educated individuals who\u00a0are used to thinking very long and hard about things. Go to a pub with a bunch of Germans, and you are far more likely to talk about the big questions in life than who deserves to get to the next round of The X\u00a0Factor (or rather, Deutschland Sucht den Superstar). Poets and novelists such as enfants terribles Daniel Kehlmann and Helene Hegemann are more likely to garner column inches than televisual highlights, though the reverence for poets and thinkers that led to the near-deification of G\u00fcnter Grass, J\u00fcrgen Habermas et al seems to be on the wane.Germans can be quite literal, straight-forward people. If you ask if they wouldn't possibly mind moving their bag from that spare train seat, and they would rather not, they will tell you. They are not afraid to interfere in others' business if they feel they know better and do not fear admonishing their fellow citizens, whether for crossing the road on red or daring to talk in the sauna. Most Germans do as they are\u00a0told, which is why there are no barriers at tube stations, and being caught\u00a0with no ticket (schwarzfahren) is a big social no-no. They are not prudish or squeamish, and will feel no shame telling you about their durchfall (diarrhoea) or getting their kit off by a lake or even municipal park in summer. They are also dreadful hypochondriacs who place such unshakeable faith in doctors that a quite astonishing 50% of all German GPs fob patients off with placebos, according to a recent study. And yes, they are still punctual. If you are invited to dinner at eight and don't show up until half past, don't blame us if you miss the starter.The German passion for all things porcine is perhaps only rivalled by Spain - another place where vegetarians are advised to point out they don't eat pork either. Sausages are still a national passion, with each region taking great pride in its own variety, from the faintly obscene Thuringian schlongs to the ketchup-smothered currywursts of Berlin. Though vegetarianism is on\u00a0the increase, Germans are still not great vegetable eaters, preferring great hits of carbohydrates such as the southern German speciality of sp\u00e4tzle, a sort of worm-like pasta usually smothered in cheese and bacon bits, or huge slabs of cake, enjoyed at all times of day. Asparagus - spargel - is a national passion, and eating it is pretty much compulsory during the Spargelzeit (TV adverts will remind you of the season should you forget). Your average family is probably more likely to have lasagne for tea than white sausage and sauerkraut. One urban myth\u00a0would have it that Berlin gave the world doner kebabs in much the same way that Brits invented chicken tikka masala. Germany is a paradise for beer drinkers, with\u00a0each\u00a0town favouring its own brew. German wine is vastly underrated, particularly Sp\u00e4tburgunder red and Riesling whites.To understand why Germans are so confident about sex, just look at the top-selling teenage magazine, Bravo. Each week, two young readers (one girl, one boy) are photographed in the buff and interviewed about their love lives, depilatory regime, etc. There is also a legendary agony uncle, Dr Sommer, who answers letters with headlines such as \"I'm circumcised and ashamed!\" and \"My mum caught me masturbating\". As a result, sex is not taboo, and the TV presenter Charlotte Roche - who last year offered to sleep with\u00a0the\u00a0German president if he didn't sign a law extending nuclear power stations' life - was able to bring out a bestselling novel, Wet Lands, about a teenage girl preoccupied with masturbating with an avocado stone. Brits are often surprised to discover that Germans do not appear to require alcohol to sleep with each other for the first time. German women are legendarily feisty and tend to call the shots in the bedroom. Think the title character in Rainer Werner Fassbinder's The Marriage of Maria Braun, who, the morning after sleeping with her boss, tells him: \"I don't care what people think. I do care what you think. And you're not having an affair with me. I'm having an\u00a0affair with you.\" This anything-goes attitude has consequences: apparently Aids/HIV has doubled in the last 10 years.Germans can be positively neurotic about their reputation as a kulturnation. German cinema used to lead the way in the silent era and, every few years, collective hopes are raised for a return to the golden years. Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck's Oscar-winning The Lives of Others in particular stoked talk of a revival, though anyone who has seen Otto Waalkes' Otto's Eleven, Till Schweiger's\u00a0Kokow\u00e4\u00e4h or even Von Donnersmarck follow-up The\u00a0Tourist knows there is no point in getting too excited. Television is still swamped by badly dubbed voiceovers of American sitcoms and carbon-copy reality shows such as Dschungelcamp (I'm a Celebrity \u2026 Get Me Out of Here!) and Deutschland Sucht den Superstar. Cop show Tatort is set in a different German city each week and has become\u00a0cult viewing for its understated drama. Musically, \"big in Germany\" is always going to be a mark of mockery in Britain, but German hip-hop is considerably better than its reputation would suggest, and electronic labels such as the Cologne-based Kompakt are respected worldwide. Lily Allen-esque singer Lena won the Eurovision song contest last year and had the country acting like a bunch of 14-year-olds, though sending her to the contest for a second time this year increasingly looks like a bad idea.Everyone knows about German history. But post-1945 (West) Germany has gone through a painful and exemplary period of self-scrutiny, with the Holocaust acknowledged and remembered as an unprecedented crime. And there is much more to German history than the Third Reich: big literary names from Goethe (below) and Schiller through to Thomas Mann, a pantheon of classical composers from Bach and Handel to Beethoven and Wagner, the martial narrative of unification in the 19th century under Bismarck and the postwar economic miracle of the 1950s. And there are always the ancient Frisians and the Saxons, who settled on an obscure, rainy island off the western coast of Europe in the fifth and sixth centuries, taking their own peculiar dialect with them.Germany has traditionally been the driving force inside the European Union, as befits its status as Europe's biggest, and most economically powerful, state. Typically, you have to add \"Franco\" when discussing Germany's EU role \u2013 as in Franco-German stitch-up. In reality, however, German foreign policy has become less idealistic/integrationist/self-sacrificing in recent years and more hard-headed/self-regarding/get-your-hands-off-our-money. Angela Merkel's decision to bail out the profligate Greeks was wildly unpopular at home. Germany also has closer relations with \"mafia state\" Russia than any other European power except Berlusconi-land. Bonus points if you can name Germany's lack-lustre foreign minister and summarise what the Americans think of him, according to WikiLeaks. (Guido Westerwelle; vain and incompetent)\u2022 This article was amended on 15 -16 March and 4 April 2011. The original stated that Germany is Europe's biggest country; that there are now just over 104,000 Jews living in Germany; that getting baptised is an expensive business, as churches are allowed to tax members 8% or 9% of their income once they come of age; that renouncing one's religion may reduce one's tax bill but it is a deliberately arduous bureaucratic process (this has been removed); that the country's status as export kings is third only to China and the US. These have all been corrected. A reference to abortion has also been clarified. A reference to Gr\u00fcner Veltliner has been deleted since it is an Austrian grape variety. ", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "At-a-glance guide to Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:05:06Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Leipzig is fast catching Berlin as a setting for innovative arts, particularly the city's Baumwollspinnerei (spinnerei.de), a former factory that now hosts dozens of eclectic galleries and artists' studios. The Spinnerei is the venue for British artist Jim Whiting's Bimbotown Parties (bimbotown.de, next one 2 April), a mix of music, theatre and lots of crazy stuff by artists from all over Europe. Tickets are sought after but some can usually be bought on the door. The cafe at the Galerie f\u00fcr Zeitgen\u00f6ssische Kunst (gfzk.de) is redesigned every two years by artists and called Kafic in its current version after a makeover by artist-architects Apolonija Sustersic and Meike Schalk. Stay in the Meisterzimmer, a room of 116m\u00b2 right in the middle of the Spinnerei (meisterzimmer.de, \u20ac80 for two, \u20ac160 for up to six people).Beer is so much a part of the fabric of life in Germany that it even has a role to play in monastic existence. The best example is the fabulous Weltenburg Benedictine monastery (klosterschenke-weltenburg.de), dramatically sited on a surging bend in the Danube near Regensburg. Here the monks run what is purported to be the oldest brewery in the world, and their dark beer is potent stuff. Visitors sit at tables in the monastery courtyard, quaffing and eating under spreading chestnut trees, and there's always the option of confession, either before or after, in the monastery's bewilderingly over-decorated rococo church.German actress Jessica Schwarz, a 33-year-old former model who is now among the country's acting elite, has somehow found time to convert an old listed building in her home town of Michelstadt into a boutique hotel. Die Tr\u00e4umerei's 17th-century building houses just four chic and individually designed rooms, as well as a cafe (die-traeumerei.com). Michelstadt itself is in the Odenwald forest, and ideally placed for Heidelberg, Germany's stunning university town, as well as being only 45 minutes from Frankfurt airport. From \u20ac135 for a double room.The largest fruit orchard in northern Europe is in the outskirts of Hamburg, and reachable through the city's S-Bahn system. And yet Altes Land, as the name suggests, is still a deeply traditional place, and it is particularly spectacular at blossom time (late April/early May, tourismus-altesland.de). The landscape is carefully preserved and comes complete with some of the finest half-timbered farmhouses in north Germany. Start exploring from the ancient port town of Stade, the terminus of S-Bahn line 3.Hay hotels are a peculiarly German institution, and an excellent old-fashioned adventure. They're at their best in the giant brick-built farmhouses of northern Germany, where the farmer and his stock all used to sleep under one roof. Many of those farms now open their hay barns (with attached bathroom facilities) to cyclists, who weave unhurriedly towards them across Niedersachsen's tapestry of dykes, marshland and heath (niedersachsen-tourism.de/en). This is ideal family cycling country, with big skies, dedicated cycle tracks, farmyard animals galore and minimal overnight costs, which include an immense farmhouse breakfast.Germany may not be a first-choice destination for ardent skiers, but you can't fault the ambition, and the accessibility, of one of its (almost unknown) ski regions. Sauerland, a hilly area east of D\u00fcsseldorf, describes itself as the \"largest snow paradise north of the Alps\", despite its comparatively low peaks and patchy snowfall (wintersport-arena.de). There are more than 120 ski lifts and a lively apr\u00e8s-ski, and it is good for beginners and intermediates. There's lots of entertainment for no-snow days, such as riding the Taxi-Bob, a bobsleigh run that can reach speeds of 80mph.The Mecklenburg lake district (mecklenburg-lakes.com) is a region of a thousand lakes and watercourses about 70km north of Berlin, and is pillowed in soft woodland and rolling agricultural land. These living waterways have long been a mecca for German boating holidays, although their appeal is more akin to the seductiveness of the Norfolk Broads than the drama of the UK's Lake District. Homemade boathouses line the shores, and youngsters still set off on motorised rafts for watery adventures, like something out of Huckleberry Finn. You can rent sophisticated cabin cruisers here too.The city's tradition as a hub for art dates back hundreds of years. In the 20th century, Joseph Beuys set up shop at the prestigious Kunstakademie (Academy of Arts) and the Becher School photography movement gave birth to household names such as Andreas Gursky and Candida H\u00f6fer. The Kunst Palast (smkp.de) and NRW Forum (nrw-forum.de) are key locations for contemporary exhibitions. The latter is currently showing Zeitgeist and Glamour, with works by David Bailey, Diane Arbus and Andy Warhol.The Sorbs are Germany's most enduring ethnic minority, and they've lived in a crescent of land in modern Brandenburg since the sixth century. Here, the Spreewald (spreewald.de) is a watery mosaic of channels, meadows, fields and forests fed by the river Spree, and easily accessible from Berlin. Key towns are L\u00fcbben and Lehde, where a lot of travel (including tours) is still by boat. Gherkins are a big industry for Sorb farmers, and every April the region hosts a unique Spreewald marathon, which involves running, cycling, walking, and paddling. The starting command? \"Auf die Gurke, fertig, los\" (gherkin, steady, go!) \u2013 not something you're likely to hear at the 2012 Olympics.\"Bankfurt\" is not all about gleaming capitalism, for Frankfurt's Main river undergoes a bank-side transformation in summertime to become a large outdoor bar. Favourites such as the Maincaf\u00e9, with its deckchairs and beach vibe, (between Untermainbr\u00fccke und Holbeinsteg) attract a relaxed crowd. Hafenbar (near Alte Br\u00fccke on the north bank of the river) is the beach bar outpost of the Stereobar club, where visitors can bring their own food. And the city's famous King Kamehameha gets down to the river as well in summer with its King Kamehameha Beach Club (king-kamehameha.de).Budapest doesn't have a monopoly on art nouveau baths. M\u00fcller'sches Volksbad, the \"people's spa\" (swm.de/privatkunden/m-baeder) next to Munich's Isar river is a gem, its murals and stucco the polar opposite of today's sleek and stylish spa designs. Opened in Rosenheimer Strasse in 1901, it is named after engineer (and benefactor) Karl M\u00fcller and it has been kept in its original condition. There are two pools, a steam bath and saunas. Early swimmers (doors open at 7.30am) get a discount and pay only \u20ac2.60 instead of \u20ac3.80.When M\u00fcnchner speak affectionately of Die Glocke, they are referring to an area of trendy shops, easy-going cafes and bars in the Glockenbachviertel and G\u00e4rtnerplatzviertel districts. It's a far cry from pricy Maximilianstrasse, the city's Gucci and Prada mile. Try Westerm\u00fchlstrasse and Klenzestrasse for fashion, as well as Eisenbl\u00e4tter-Triska (Hans-Sachs-Strasse 13, eisenblaetter-triska.de) for quirky hat creations, or boutique Kleider machen Leute (Reichenbachstrasse 10, kleidermachenleute-shop.de) for clothes and style advice. There's plenty of nightlife too, from relaxed retro at Trachtenvogl (Reichenbachstrasse 47, trachtenvogl.de) to easy listening, funk, electro, house and soul at Ksar Barclub (M\u00fcllerstrasse 31, ksar-barclub.de). The area is also the centre of Munich's gay community with clubs and bars mainly between Thalkirchnerstrasse and Fraunhoferstrasse.Paddle steamers were once the monarchs of the European river systems, but these days they are rare. Except, of course, if you're in Dresden, that reconstructed jewel of an imperial city, because a whole fleet of old beauties operates from this Florence of the Elbe (saechsische-dampfschiffahrt.de). Decks quivering, funnels billowing, paddles kiss-kissing the water, they thump upriver to the castle at Pillnitz (schloesser-dresden.de), and then onwards into mountainous Saxon Switzerland. From their final destination at Bad Schandau, it is only 45 minutes back to Dresden by train.Man has planted his mucky feet firmly into most corners of this planet, but the sea bed has so far been mainly off-limits. Not so in the vast intertidal zones of the Wadden Sea, those enormous tidal flats on the north coast of Germany, where the ebb tide often retreats as far as 10km. Walking out across these mostly sandy flats is called Wattwandern (wattwandern.de), but there's mud here too, of a quality that spa addicts would pay good money for. On certain tides you can walk right out to the Frisian islands, and then catch a ferry back on the returning tide. Go with a guide.X marks the spot where the AlpspiX viewing platform (zugspitze.de/en/summer/berg/garmisch-classic/alpspix.htm) hangs out over a thousand-metre void in the lee of the 2,962-metre Zugspitze, Germany's highest mountain, in southern Bavaria. Two metal walkways cross arms as they reach out into giddy nothingness, and you need to keep your nerve if you intend to walk the full 42 feet to the end of each, especially when it wobbles. The AlpspiX is reached via the Alpspitze cable car from the ski resort of Garmisch-Partenkirchen, \u20ac22 return.Everyone knows Neuschwanstein, the fairytale Bavarian Schloss that inspired Disneyland's Sleeping Beauty Castle, but millions queue for its (perfunctory) tour every year. Far better to take a hike up Schachen to the King's House (schloesser.bayern.de, admission \u20ac4.50) an extraordinary mountain-top retreat also built by castle-obsessed King Ludwig II of Bavaria, and have its bizarre Turkish-themed salon to yourself. It's a four-hour walk up from the car park at Elmau, near Garmisch-Partenkirchen, and you can overnight for as little as \u20ac10 in the next door Schachenhaus (schachenhaus.de), which also serves hot food and cold beer.We may not have heard of Baiersbronn here in the UK, but this small rural community in the Black Forest is a gourmet valley of international repute. Its nine small villages can boast seven Michelin stars, divided between three chefs. They are Harald Wohlfahrt (Schwarzwaldstube/3 stars, traube-tonbach.de), Claus-Peter Lumpp (Restaurant Bareiss/3 stars, bareiss.com) and J\u00f6rg Sackmann (Schlossberg/1 star, hotel-sackmann.de). If you don't feel like joining the queue for a reservation, Baiersbronn is also a prime hiking destination and ramblers can roam the forests on walks guided by a local chef, who'll reveal nature at its tastiest (baiersbronn.de).The Palatinate region, up against the border with France, is where Germany gets super-excited about food and wine. The German Wine Route runs here, with lots of tastings and good little restaurants. In March, the Mandelbl\u00fcte (almond blossom) makes the hills blush. The Ketschauer Hof (from \u20ac220 for a double room, ketschauer-hof.com) in Deidesheim is a stylish conversion of a winemaker's old manor house. In nearby Speyer, more than 1,500 years old and home of the Unesco-recognised Speyerer Dom (imperial cathedral), visitors can explore the city's rich history on a culinary walking tour (\u20ac52 per person, fourth Friday of every month, speyer.de), stopping off at different restaurants for each course of their three-course meal.Put your pedal to the metal on Germany's original grand prix track, the N\u00fcrburgring (nurburgring.de), a looping circuit through the forested Eifel hills. The 14-mile Nordschleife includes 73 right-angle bends and was used as a Formula One circuit until the cars simply became too fast for it. When Niki Lauda was badly injured in 1976 the drivers refused to compete there again, with Jackie Stewart christening it \"green hell\". These days you can drive around it yourself in your own car and see whether you agree, but just don't get distracted by the scenery.The Oktoberfest has lots of siblings all over the country, and it doesn't always have to be about beer. A reliable way to get pleasantly beschwipst (tipsy \u2013 good word!) is by mixing fruit and alcohol. German summertime favourite Erdbeerbowle (a mix of white wine, sparkling wine and strawberries) is a great beschwipst-er and is best enjoyed on a warm evening at the Wilhelmstrassenfest street festival in elegant spa town Wiesbaden (this year from 2-4 June, wiesbaden.de). If you must have beer, the Bergkirchweih festival in Erlangen (9-20 June, erlangen.de), dates back to the 18th century. And Bamberg, beer city par excellence, hosts the Sandkerwa (25-29 August, bamberg.info), when the output of the city's own eight breweries is supplemented by the arrival of outside beer makers, who set up stalls in the old city.The UK and Germany share a love of gardens. Schleswig-Holstein's \"Garden trails between the seas\" (the North Sea and the Baltic Sea) is a selection of nine routes that can be covered by bike (best, it's flat here!) or car (sh-tourismus.de/en/garden-trails). Each route takes in 10 different gardens and parks plus stopovers in tree nurseries or garden cafes. Apart from discovering northern German garden culture, it's a fantastic way to explore a region that is usually off the radar for Brits.Andrew Eames and Barbara Geier are editors of germanyiswunderbar.com", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Munich holidays", "Frankfurt holidays", "Dresden holidays", "Boating holidays", "Cultural trips", "Food and drink", "Short breaks", "City breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Wunderbar! The best of Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-18T12:29:32Z", "country": "germany", "content": "One of the biggest recent news stories in Germany involved a plagiarism scandal that brought down the defence minister, Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg. Perhaps this is a fitting moment, therefore, to recall another case of plagiarism that rocked the literary world at the beginning of 2010.The debut novel by the Berlin author Helene Hegemann, who was 18 at the time, had the unusual title of Axolotl Roadkill and made headlines with its depiction of a teenage girl's drug-addled adventures in Berlin's club scene. But the author found herself attracting headlines of an entirely unwelcome kind when it was revealed that she had borrowed liberally from other writers, including a blogger who goes by the name Airen. The initial enthusiasm for the book quickly melted away, and some critics may have wondered how they had allowed themselves to get caught up in the hysteria over what turned out to be a minor literary event.Perhaps that's why a large swath of German readers are pleased that there is at least one person who never loses his cool, namely the former chancellor Helmut Schmidt. Four of his non-fiction works are among the 10 most successful books of the past 10 years, including Unser Jahrhundert (\"Our Century\"), a conversation with the historian Fritz Stern, which was published in 2010. In Germany it's no longer the pope or J\u00fcrgen Habermas who satisfies the country's yearning for moral guidance, but Schmidt. The former chancellor is depicted on the jacket of Unser Jahrhundert holding his ever-present cigarette, something that is also part of his aura: he not only defies the zeitgeist in his opinions, he even flouts the advice of the medical establishment.The grand old man of German politics would probably frown on another class of author that has proved popular in Germany in recent years: the self-deprecating egocentric. They write entirely about their own experiences from an ironic perspective, and churn out tongue-in-cheek books about such diverse topics as getting old, snoring and having children. One of the most successful works of the genre is the recent Achtung Baby! (\"Look Out Baby!\") by the comedian Michael Mittermeier. For his generation, it seems, becoming a father is not so much a normal biological process as a lifestyle choice.Thomas Hettche also focused on the theme of family in his novel Die Liebe der V\u00e4ter (\"The Love of the Fathers\"), which deals with the relationship between a father and his estranged daughter. Literary critics welcomed the book, partly because its publication coincided with a landmark decision on custody law by Germany's highest court. But Hettche's novel suffered the same fate as Hegemann's book \u2013 only a few weeks after its publication, the critics began to find fault with it.The daughter in Hettche's novel is portrayed as a modern child who spends much of her time texting and listening to her iPod. What could be more shocking than to go without the tools of modern communication? In Ohne Netz (\"Without the Internet\"), Alex R\u00fchle writes about his \"half year offline\". As it happens, this type of \"self-experiment\" has become increasingly popular among German non-fiction authors, who try to live strictly in accordance with the Bible, say, or forgo sex completely.One of the standout works in the genre is Karen Duve's Anst\u00e4ndig essen (\"Eating Properly: How I Tried to Become a Better Person\"), in which the author tries out a variety of green-tinged diets such as vegetarianism and veganism. The result is not so much a polemic as a personal investigation into the food industry and factory farming. In Germany, where there are now plans to build the largest poultry slaughterhouse in Europe, with the capacity for slaughtering 130m chickens a year, it makes sense to be more aware of the side effects of industrial-scale breeding, fattening and killing. The book seemed to be Germany's contribution to a discussion on the ethics of eating sparked by the publication of Jonathan Safran Foer's Eating Animals.Much more controversial \u2013 and successful \u2013 was Thilo Sarrazin's Deutschland schafft sich ab (\"Germany Does Away With Itself\"). This treatise by a former Bundesbank board member is \u2013 to put it mildly \u2013 highly critical of immigration and Muslims, who he claims are threatening the very fabric of German society. The tremendous success of Sarrazin's theories says a lot about the way society is going in Germany, where even the liberal chattering classes unashamedly complain there are \"too many foreigners\" in their kids' schools.Sarrazin's book sold more than 1m copies, contributing significantly to a year-on-year rise in the sales of non-fiction books of 20%. The fiction market, on the other hand, was extremely weak. The bestseller lists are dominated by globally successful fantasy authors such as Stephenie Meyer, or by crime fiction writers such as Britain's Simon Beckett and the American author Elizabeth George.More challenging fare was provided by Melinda Nadj Abonji. Her novel Tauben fliegen auf (\"Falcons without Falconers\"), a family drama about Yugoslavian immigrants in Switzerland, won the 2010 German Book Prize, Germany's answer to the Booker. But unlike previous winners by authors such as Katharina Hacker, Julia Franck and Uwe Tellkamp \u2013 all reliable suppliers of highly marketable light novels for a moderately demanding reading public \u2013 Abonji's novel was a commercial disaster, just reaching number 50 on the bestseller list shortly before Christmas.New books by G\u00fcnter Grass and Christa Wolf reminded us that there were once such things as great German writers. Gruppe 47 (Group 47), a literary association that influenced an entire era and encompassed the country's best authors, disbanded long ago. Which author under 60 could play that role today? Thomas Lehr, perhaps, whose September. Fata Morgana is a linguistic tour de force set in the aftermath of 9/11 and is both celebrated and controversial. Pedantic critics derided it for not having a single punctuation mark (despite the full stop in the title), as if punctuation has anything to do with literature.Next to Lehr's book, the most striking work in stylistic terms was Peter Wawerzinek's Rabenliebe (\"Motherless Child\"). The autobiographical novel seems almost anachronistic, like something from the days when lederhosen-wearing poets declaimed at open windows. The fact that this powerful writer grew up in the communist German Democratic Republic will perhaps encourage some East German intellectuals to claim that the workers' state was a republic of scholars. But anyone who has read Rabenliebe knows that it was a cold, brutal childhood that prompted Wawerzinek to escape into literature.Today the former East Germany is on the road to becoming the Wild East for writers from the west. In Deutschboden (\"On German Soil\"), described as an exercise in \"participatory observation\", Moritz von Uslar spends time with the natives of a Brandenburg village, while Wolfgang Herrndorf's Tschick dispatches two adolescents through the same state in a stolen Lada. The latter was a surprise success.Readers may be wondering at this point whether Basil Fawlty's famous dictum \"Don't mention the war\" also applies to contemporary German literature. But one current literary sensation is a previously almost forgotten novel that deals with the Nazi era. Jeder stirbt f\u00fcr sich allein (\"Every Man Dies Alone\") by Hans Fallada (1893-1947) is the story of a Berlin couple executed by the Nazis; it was recently republished in Germany in its original version. Like the liberation from Hitler in 1945, Germans can also thank the Allies for giving them Fallada's novel back: its republication was inspired by the book's tremendous success in Britain and the United States (as Alone in Berlin).1 Hummeldumm by Tommy Jaud (comic novel about German holidaymakers in Namibia)2 Erbarmen (Mercy) by Jussi Adler-Olsen (Danish crime)3 Fall of Giants by Ken Follett (five families in the first world war)4 The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner by Stephenie Meyer5 Deutschland schafft sich ab (Germany Does Away with Itself) by Thilo\u00a0Sarrazin", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Germany", "Culture", "Fiction", "Biography", "Politics"], "title": "What they're reading in Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-14T09:26:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "9.24am: Guten Morgen! As part of the Guardian's month-long Europe season, I'm live blogging today from the Hamburg offices of Der Spiegel, Germany's most celebrated news magazine. Der Spiegel has long been a German institution and is essential reading for anyone who wants to understand Germany or German politics, so it should be a good base.The Guardian's editor-in-chief, Alan Rusbridger sets out the purpose of our Europe series here. \"Too often Europe is discussed and reported through its common institutions or purely in terms of its relations with Britain,\" he writes.Here are a few highlights of our coverage today: We've got the results of a Europe-wide ICM poll that shows trust in politicians at rock bottom around Europe \u2013 and the lack of trust is greatest in Poland and France.Today's focus is on Germany and we have a provocative comment piece  from Hans-Olaf Henkel, a former president of the Federation of German Industries, who argues that the euro should be split in two \u2013 a northern zone with a strong adherence to \"monetary and budgetary stability, and a southern zone that would reflect a \"free-spending mentality and talent for monetary improvisation\". And the headline of the day award goes to this piece about German theatre by Guardian critic Michael Billington, \"Don't mention the phwoar\".You can read the rest of the Guardian's coverage here. Later today, I'm interviewing Der Spiegel's editor-in-chief, Georg Mascolo.I want to ask him about Angela Merkel, WikiLeaks' revelations, and Der Spiegel's relationship with Julian Assange. (Unlike the Guardian and New York Times, Der Spiegel is still on friendly terms with the WikiLeaks founder.) You can find the Guardian's coverage from Germany today here. Spiegel Online is currently leading with the latest explosion at the Japanese nuclear reactor in Fukushima.9.30am: Morning conference in the offices of Spiegel Online has just got under way. The main theme of discussion is Japan and the rapidly worsening situation at the Fukushima reactor. There's a view among Spiegel journalists that the Japanese government is deliberately underplaying the scale of the crisis in order to prevent panic breaking out among Japan's population. Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron, Spiegel's chief editor, puts it like this: \"These are historic days. The news we've had in the last few minutes suggests that the nuclear reactor's core could be heading for a meltdown.\"9.54am: There's a knock on the door. Urgent news from Berlin: the German government has decided to review the decision to prolong the country's nuclear reactor programme. The catastrophe in Japan has provoked a massive debate about what to do with Germany's own ageing nuclear power stations. The Greens and Social Democrats want the stations to be phased out immediately (remember Atomkraft? Nein Danke!). But Angela Merkel's coalition government recently decided to keep them in service. The government now seems to be having a major wobble.More discussion in the Spiegel conference about how to cover the events in Japan. There's much praise for Spiegel's hastily employed Japanese translator. And apparently an amateur scientist in Tokyo is running round posting live radiation levels on Facebook.10.26am: Conference is over and I'm now installed on the sixth floor of Spiegel Online's offices in Hamburg. Just across the road is the historic building where the main Spiegel magazine is based. The 11-storey block was built in the 1960s and is justifiably famous: its canteen is decorated in lurid oranges and reds. It looks like something out of the film Barbarella. Jule Lutteroth, Spiegel Online's deputy editor-in-chief, tells me there used to be an equally funky swimming pool in the basement. Now, boringly, it houses Spiegel's archives. (Each floor was decorated with its own colour scheme: journalists working on foreign news sat in rooms painted in a hideous dark blue. They eventually demanded a new colour scheme.) Der Spiegel, Spiegel Online and Spiegel TV are moving in August to a new building just down the road. This may be progress, but this modern penthouse is duller than Spiegel's old home.11.20am: I've just had a fascinating chat with Olaf Kanter, Spiegel Online's managing editor. Unlike in Britain, where the newspaper industry seems to be in its death throes, Der Spiegel is making a healthy profit, he tells me. Germany's advertising industry recovered strongly in the second half of last year, he says, and the magazine is selling about 1m copies every week. And it's not only German newspapers doing well: the car-makers BMW, Mercedes, and VW are all posting record profits. \"We haven't suffered like England. You have a much bigger financial services industry. We build more things. Our exports have rescued us,\" Kanter says. Generally, Germans seems much more optimistic than Brits. One of my old friends in Hamburg, Stefan Schaefer, works for the travel agency Travel Overland. We had dinner last night in one of Hamburg's cheap and cheerful Turkish restaurants; he's busier than ever, he says.12.03pm: Another dramatic development: Der Spiegel has decided to pull its reporter out of Tokyo because of the risk a Chernobyl-style radiation cloud could reach the Japanese capital. Thilo Thielke, Spiegel's veteran war correspondent, is leaving Japan today. Spiegel is now covering the story from Bangkok and the south of Japan. Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron says the latest information is ominous: the wind is blowing from the north \u2013 in the direction of Tokyo. \"Perhaps this is a piece of German angst. But no country is more against nuclear power than Germany,\" he says. He adds: \"The wind is shifting from the north and could blow a cloud south directly to Tokyo. This is really horrible. I think this is a big, big crisis and a wake-up call for nuclear energy.\" The German embassy is also making preparations to evacuate some staff, apparently.12.06pm: There is good coverage of Japan in Spiegel Online International, Spiegel's English language window. In an opinion piece Rolland Nelles, a one-time fan of nuclear energy, says in the wake of Fukushima German chancellor Angela Merkel (pictured) will be forced to modify her pro-nuclear stance. He writes:Even the last remaining advocates of the technology must realise that we can't go on like this. It is over. Done. Finished. Nuclear energy cannot be controlled by humans, no matter how good the arguments might be in its favour. The danger of disaster is real, and it can happen at any time \u2013 even in a super hi-tech country like Japan. And it could also happen here in Germany. A sense of security when it comes to atomic reactors is no longer possible. Not anywhere.12.19pm: A few non-Japan stories caught my eye this morning. The German tabloids all report on a driver high on drugs who ploughed into a group of pedestrians in Hamburg yesterday afternoon, killing four of them. One of the victims was Dietmar Mues, an actor in the popular and long-running German police series Tatort (Crime Scene). His wife Sibylle also died. The accident took place in Eppendorf, an affluent part of Hamburg. (I know the area well: my best friend in Hamburg, Michael Fleischer, had an aunt who lived nearby.) Bild Zeitung calls it a \"horror-accident\" (German only).Oh, and a gang of punks are apparently stealing Hamburg's dogs. They have so far made off with a three-month-old bulldog, Joker, as well as a labrador, Buddy, and a sheepdog-mongrel Milo, Bild says.12.58pm: I'm about to try out Spiegel's legendary canteen over the road. But before I go off and grab a Br\u00f6tchen I ask Mathias M\u00fcller von Blumencron about relations between Germany and England. (In 2006 I wrote an essay arguing the World Cup had transformed Germany's image in the eyes of the British media, and ordinary Brits. The Nazi cliches were over, more or less, I suggested.) Mathias tells me that the Germans don't feel schadenfreude at Britain's current economic woes. He says: \"You have a tricky and difficult situation. David Cameron has to see through a public sector cuts programme of unheard of proportions. I'm surprised there isn't a revolution in Britain going on. We don't like to see other European countries suffer, especially not Britain. I love London. I'm often in Britain. What would Europe do without British newspapers like the Economist, Guardian and FT?\"Der Spiegel hasn't nailed down its plans yet, but is almost certainly going to cover next month's royal wedding. It may even do a live-ticker! Could Der Spiegel be more interested in the royal wedding than the republican Guardian?2.28pm: The Spiegel canteen lived up to its billing! The decor with its space-age ceiling lamps and funky wall balls is a breathtaking piece of 60s modernist kitsch. The chips aren't bad either. Verner Panton is the man who designed it. You can see more examples of his work here on Flickr .The canteen is due to close, alas, in five months' time when Spiegel moves house.I'm off to see Georg Mascolo, Spiegel's editor-in-chief. I'll report back shortly.3.13pm: I talked to Georg Mascolo for 20 minutes \u2013 not bad, given the huge running story in Japan. I asked Mascolo about Julian Assange (pictured) and WikiLeaks. (Assange collaborated with the Guardian, New York Times and Der Spiegel in the release of secret US state department cables last year, as well as war logs from Iraq and Afghanistan. He is no longer on speaking terms with the Guardian and New York Times teams.Mascolo says of Assange: \"He's a very interesting guy. I always thought he might end up running Facebook or Google rather than WikiLeaks. I think we can admire the achievements. We all see his very difficult personality.\" The Spiegel editor-in-chief recalls a tense meeting last November when Assange threatened to boot the Guardian and New York Times out of the newspaper consortium publishing the secret US government communiques. \"There was a moment when he decided only Spiegel would go ahead with printing the cables. I refused and said I was very happy with the relationship with the New York Times and Guardian. We would not accept any split with our group.\"Two Spiegel journalists, Marcel Rosenbach and Holger Stark, have written a German-language book about WikiLeaks, currently on Germany's non-fiction bestseller list.3.28pm: Mascolo also had some interesting things to say about the media industry. He doesn't believe that newspapers should give away their content. Much of Spiegel's success \u2013 it posted huge profits last year \u2013 is due to the fact that Spiegel Online and the Spiegel magazine have almost entirely different editorial content, he says. (Spiegel Online posts only four or five articles from the weekly print edition. Its editorial operation is separate.) Mascolo politely criticises the Guardian's online model, where you can read all the paper's content for free. He says: \"We decided years ago to raise the price for the magazine. It's already \u20ac4 (\u00a33). You might say this is a lot of money but it isn't much more than a cafe latte in Starbucks. I don't believe in journalism for free. I believe if you want to have good quality you have to pay for it.\"3.38pm: Thanks for all your comments about my \"liquid lunch\"! I can assure you I haven't drunk anything stronger than tea since arriving in Hamburg on Sunday.Breaking news: Angela Merkel has just announced a three-month \"delay\" on the German government's decision to extend the lifespan of Germany's ageing nuclear power plants. Her move is clearly in response to events in Japan. But it also appears to be linked to regional elections later this month in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg (and two other federal states) where Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU) are running neck and neck with the centre-left Social Democrats. The CDU has controlled Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg for almost 60 years; losing it would be an enormous blow to Merkel's coalition. The nuclear power station debate has dominated the election campaign (German only).4.19pm: My colleague Juan Gomez from El Pais has taken this photo of Mascolo's office on the 11th-floor of Spiegel Towers. There is an amazing panoramic view of the city. On Mascolo's wall is a sign saying: \"Keep calm and carry on.\" He also has a cushion in the colours of the German flag with the words: \"Geld allein macht nicht gl\u00fccklich!\" (Money alone doesn't make you happy!) on a black leather sofa.According to Mascolo, Merkel has every chance of winning Germany's next general election in 2013, despite today's embarrassing U-turn over nuclear energy. \"I don't think she's going anywhere anytime soon,' he says. Merkel's biggest failing, he suggests, is that after seven years as chancellor she has still not properly explained her vision for Germany. Mascolo also says Guido Westerwelle, Germany's foreign minister, is doing better after a disappointing first two years in the job. Unlike British foreign secretary William Hague, Westerwelle \u2013 the leader of Germany's pro-business FDP party \u2013 has had a \"good\" Arab revolution. He has spoken passionately in favour of democracy in the Arab world, though Germany as a whole is opposed to any kind of military intervention in Libya or elsewhere. I'm interviewing Westerwelle on Thursday and will form my own view then.4.55pm: It's been a good day to be live blogging in Germany: after decades of debate the Germans really do appear (unlike the French) to be calling time on their nuclear energy industry. The subject is the top of the political agenda here and today's events in Japan will ensure that it stays there. I spent four years in Germany as the Guardian's correspondent in Berlin (2003-2006) before moving to Russia, from where I was recently, and unhappily, expelled. I've always been struck by how the Germans manage to do things more successfully than the Brits. Today's visit to Der Spiegel has merely confirmed this view. German newspapers are still hugely profitable, (ours are virtually bankrupt) and there seems to be a view here that both journalists and journalism has a future. The German economy has already recovered, while ours is mired in gloom.The Guardian will be covering Germany for the rest of this week as part our month-long Europe season. After that it's on to France, from where Alexandra Topping will be live blogging from Monday. Thanks for all your comments and Tsch\u00fcss! ", "tags": ["Europe", "World news", "Germany", "Media", "Magazines"], "title": "New Europe live blog - Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:04:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Experience the beauty of the Amazon and learn about its wildlife, ecology and complexity at this magical attraction \u2013 inside a 30m-high old gasometer. It features a giant 360\u00b0 panoramic recreation of the rainforest. Bring or hire binoculars so you can spot animals in the 'forest' \u2013 and listen out for their calls. It's a great combination of originality and information.Richard-Lehman Strasse 114, +49 341 35 55 340, asisi.de; entrance \u20ac10 adults, \u20ac5 childrenLesley46Dachgarten at the ReichstagAvoid the queues at the Reichstag for the price of breakfast by booking online at the restaurant Dachgarten. Go straight to the front of any queue to get into the Reichstag and tell them you have booked breakfast, get your name checked off the list by the guards and get escorted through security by your personal escort to the lift that carries you to the restaurant at the foot of the glass dome. Terrific breakfast (and we are vegetarian) and then we had the run of the dome and fabulous views over Berlin. Awesome. Platz der Republik 1, +49 30 2262 9933, bundestag.deLilianhandyEast Side GalleryIt's a 1.3km length of the Berlin Wall with amazing artwork, recently restored. Pollution and graffiti ruined the first lot so get to see it before this happens again.M\u00fchlenstrasse 1, eastsidegallery.comtheairsZwiebelfischWith the demise of Gainsbourg (it's been turned into a supermarket) there's only Zwiebelfisch and Diener flying the flag for old Berlin in this chic square between the K'Damm (Kurf\u00fcrstendamm) and Kantstrasse. Once a hotbed of revolutionary chatter, it's now a very laidback joint that seems totally at ease with itself. Papered in thousands of posters and old photos, it's got a chilled-out vibe thanks in no small measure to the genial owner, a veteran of West Berlin's pre-1989 counter culture. Zwiebelfisch, incidentally, is an old printing expression meaning a letter printed in the wrong font.Savignyplatz 7, +49 30 312 73 63, zwiebelfisch-berlin.deTimETempelhof airportThis now-disused terminal is the third largest building in the world, and the scale is breathtaking, in particular the vast arrivals hall, which was designed by Ernst Sagebiel. He worked in the same offices as Albert Speer, Hitler's architect. It is that worrying link with the past that makes walking through the site all the more interesting. It is particularly eerie now it is empty but there are plenty of reminders of the airport's previous life as a major international terminal and the role it played in the 1948 Berlin Airlift. The US military used it as a base during the cold war, from 1945, and their old offices are left exactly as they were immediately after their departure in 1993. Brilliant.+49 30 6091 1660, berlin-airport.de; the airport tour lasts two hours and costs \u20ac8ppJGNaughtonX-Terrain barGreat little cellar bar in Oranienburger Strasse. Go down the steps and be greeted by the bowler-hatted Ian Dury-esque owner/designer of this DIY retro establishment. Homemade artworks and paraphenalia adorn the brick walls, candles drip wax over their holders \u2013 soak up the smoke-filled ambience and Rolling Stones grooves. Relax on a big-armed sofa and discuss the Tacheles art collective (just along the road) over a Berliner Weisse, green or red. A real taste of creative, underground Berlin.Oranienburger Strasse 40WillJohnson747Strand Pauli Beach ClubStrand Pauli is one of several beach clubs in Hamburg with a great view of the river Elbe. It's near Landungsbr\u00fccken, just 15 minutes from the Hauptbahnhof, Hamburg's central train station. Here you will find good music, German beer and food direct from the barbecue. Relax on comfortable beach furniture under palm trees with your toes in the sand, which is brought each summer from the North Sea coast.Hafenstrasse 89, +49 163 733 58 32, strandpauli.deEppendorferLake DistrictDespite being only a short car or train journey from Berlin, the idyllic region around the Scharm\u00fctzelsee and its smaller lakes is as off the beaten track, as reasonably priced and untouristy as they come. You can pamper yourself in the thermal brine spas at Bad Saarow, spend the night in the opulent surroundings of the fairytale Schloss Hubertush\u00f6he, a former royal hunting lodge, or just take in the unspoilt beaches, woodland and wildlife.Bad Saarow spa, +49 33 631 8680, bad-saarow.de; Schloss Hubertush\u00f6he, hubertushoehe.deBurgermeisterschechThe AldstadtThe city that gave us Kraftwerk also gave us some of the finest beer in the world. The Altstadt is crammed with traditional German beerhalls selling the renowned Altbier. This top-fermented ale is best sampled in the four brewpubs, each with their own distinctive tipple served from the barrel. The oldest is Schumacher, not far from the station, and the other three \u2013 the F\u00fcchschen, Schl\u00fcssel and Uerige \u2013 are in the Altstadt.Oststrasse 123, +49 21 1828 9020, schumacher-alt.deTroutiemcfishWein und Biersh\u00e4nkeFamous for its Flammkuchen and Neuwein, the Sh\u00e4nke restaurant has been satisfying the hunger of both locals and tourists since 1982. The friendly atmosphere is great for any type of gathering, with its flea-market decor and wooden beams.Flammkuchen is a huge rectangular slice of deliciousness, traditionally topped with bacon and onion. It's similar to the humble pizza, but has a sauce made of quark (a type of cheese) instead of tomato. My favourite is half topped with feta and jalape\u00f1os, with the other half covered in mushrooms, onions, sweetcorn and kidney beans. Its non-alcoholic KiBa cocktail (half cherry-half banana) is my favourite accompaniment, except for in September and October, when the sweet-tasting Neuwein is in season.N\u00e4he Dom, Wollstrasse 7-9, +49 62 412 4919, weinundbierschaenke.deemilyreactsCafe BeegCafe Beeg is an old-school German cafe, with a formal atmosphere, delicious food, cakes and coffee. Children are welcomed \u2013 they warmed our daughter's baby meal and brought it out on a silver serving dish \u2013 and the cakes are to die for.Cafe Beeg, Gernsbacherstrasse 44-46, +49 72 213 6760NimitzThe vast Bodensee in south-east Germany is an undiscovered gem to us Brits. Base yourself in the popular island town of Lindau and stroll around the old quarter before heading out to explore the lakeside. You can cycle or walk southwards along the lake to Bregenz in Austria (having a dip in the \"See\" along the way), or take one of the many boats or catamarans across to Konstanz or Rorschach in Switzerland. Venture inland from Lindau and hike up to the top of the Pf\u00e4nder for breath-taking views. Try out the hip Youth Hostel situated on the lakeside in Lindau.Lindau Youth Hostel, +49 83 82 96 710, jugendherberge.de/jh/bayern/lindau/welshlynRiver-surf at the EisbachDespite being far from the ocean, Munich has a reputation as a surfing hotspot. It is highly entertaining to watch local surfers riding the artificial wave. When you have had enough, take a stroll in the English Garden and stop at the Chinese Tower beer garden for a bite to eat and a local beer. Bliss. The Eisbach (artificial river) at the Haus der Kunst, by the English Garden NinnytendoCafe SoloOnly one hour south of Munich by car or train, on the banks of the river Isar, Cafe Solo is a friendly, English-speaking bar and restaurant. The enchiladas are fabulous, as is the \"steak vital\" \u2013 succulent pork loins served with rice. Alternatively, relax on the covered, heated terrace overlooking the bridge and the quaint 12th-century town of Bad Tolz, with its famous mural that lines the main street, sipping a wheatbeer.K\u00f6nigsdorfer Strasse 2, cafe-solo.euArcweldThe Nebelhorn/Breitach gorgeGorgeous Oberstdorf is in the Alpine southern toe of Germany and the cable car ride up to the mountain top gives amazing views across the Alps. Down below are lovely waymarked walks by glacial rivers or through the stunning Breitach gorge. The town itself is a relaxed and reasonably priced tourist spot, popular with German holidaymakers.Oberstdorf has a station and is easily accessed by car or train from Friedrichshafen or Munich airports.oberstdorf.deAlteeGrosser ArberThe highest mountain in the Bavarian Forest, this is a wintersport resort, ideal for families and beginners, but has a couple of black runs, and it also has snowboard railpark. Snow conditions are very reliable, plus it's cheaper than the Alpine resorts and less crowded. It's only a couple of hours by train from Munich airport.visitbavaria.comgermanclairePichelsteinerfest, RegenThe largest and most popular beer festival in the Bavarian Forest \u2013 this year it's on 29 July to 3 August. A highlight is the river floats parade on the Saturday evening, illuminated by candles.pichelsteinerfest.comgermanclaire", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Berlin holidays", "Munich holidays", "Hamburg holidays", "City breaks", "Food and drink", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' tips: the best of Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-19T00:04:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "I am always being asked which German town I like best \u2013 and this, on the face of it, completely fair question always freezes me up. Dizzy with pubs, turrets, marketplaces, graveyards and shops selling odd things made from marzipan, I can no longer really tell which was which. Mystic rosebushes, miniature prisons, pulpits shaped like a tulip have all blended into a single demented townscape as the years spent\u00a0wandering happily from place to place now take their mental revenge on me.Taking a grip of myself, however, I will tend to blurt out one word: \"Bamberg\". Now I know that I liked Weikersheim more and felt more peaceful sitting outside a hermit's rock-chapel in Schw\u00e4bisch Gm\u00fcnd, but Bamberg, in Bavaria, was the place that so battered my senses that it made me want to uproot my family and live in Germany.Bamberg is built around seven hills and features the most extraordinary architecture \u2013 the cathedral, for example, crowded with the most vivid and peculiar medieval stone carvings, a monastery enclosing a garden filled with all the flowers and fruit mentioned in the Bible and with a side-chapel which includes the most enjoyable of all German representations of \"dances of death\", with a gleeful, preening, derisive skeleton capering around his victims.Many of the streets are so perfectly gnarled and gabled that you expect the population to all sing from their balconies or do Student Prince-style dances over the town's bridges, rather than merely queue at ATMs or buy sausages. The pubs fuel astonishing levels of drinking \u2013 apparently the highest per capita consumption of beer in Europe and with a real sense that in these roaring, terrible-smelling interiors the entire population is working hard to maintain this pointless eminence.Much of the action is focused on the unique Rauchbier, a local beer created by doing something to malt not viewed as rational in other places. It tastes terrible, but nonetheless gives the drinker such a feeling of localism, camaraderie and warrior strength as to be almost irresistible.The wonderful ETA Hoffmann lived for a while in Bamberg and in so much of the town you feel fully engaged with his macabre spirit \u2013 strange towers, moss-covered walls and inexplicably designed carvings, shop signs and door knockers proliferate. Even secondhand\u00a0bookshops help out with needlessly necromancy-focused window displays.But at the town's sinister \u2013 but pleasurable \u2013 heart lies the spectacular bird hall at the city's Natural History Museum (naturkundemuseum-bamberg.de), which reopened last year after heavy restoration work. This great room preserves miraculously the spirit of the late 18th century, when Bamberg was a semi-independent state and the Enlightenment in full swing.A mass of white and gold paint, the hall has somehow kept all its original fittings, which display stuffed birds, a whale jaw, glass pyramids filled with robin eggs and wax models of every fruit to be found in Bamberg, with everything somehow almost glowing with that era's atmosphere of genial inquiry.I never did get to live in Bamberg, my children skipping over the bridges strewing flower petals, my wife waving and laughing from the balcony of our pub (or, in another scenario, waving and laughing from the balcony of the bird hall curator's no-doubt charming house). But it was the inspiration of Bamberg, as well as my family's sullen refusal to uproot from south-west London, that made me fall back on the second best thing and start writing a book.", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Cultural trips", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "My travels: Simon Winder in Bavaria, Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-18T17:40:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": "When it came to the crunch, Chancellor Angela Merkel and her foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, decided that Germany should side with China and Russia. These three members of the UN security council abstained from Thursday's vote on a resolution to impose a no-fly zone over Libya, along with Brazil and India. It is a curious political development, to say the least.The three make for strange bedfellows. There is Germany, a democracy which puts great store in the rule of law and human rights, siding with a communist, one-party dictatorship and a country with a dubious track record on political freedoms. On the other side are Germany's traditional allies \u2013 the US, France and Britain \u2013 not to mention parts of the Arab and African world. Lebanon had been one of the countries presenting the resolution, which was backed by the Arab League. Qatar and the UAE have already said they would take part in a military operation, according to UN diplomats.And despite the Libyan regime's move on Friday afternoon to declare a ceasefire \u2013 at least for now \u2013 and inviting international observers into the country, Berlin's move could have lasting repercussions. Although Berlin has not blocked military action by abstaining, the German government has marginalised itself. It is effectively telling its allies: You will have to deal with this one alone \u2013 we're not going to help you.The German position, which had been agreed between Merkel and Westerwelle, had been clear for days. As a concession to its allies, Berlin will now beef up its mission in Afghanistan. There is talk of Germany taking part in AWACS surveillance flights over the country, which would take pressure off Germany's allies and free up their aircraft for operations over Libya. But is it enough?Some politicians within Merkel's centre-right coalition are already warning that Germany could be drifting even further away from France, Britain and the US. Attitudes toward Germany will change as a result of the vote, says Ruprecht Polenz, a member of parliament for Merkel's conservatives who heads up the Bundestag's foreign affairs committee. \"I don't think we've heard the last word on this,\" he said, pointing out that the EU had already announced its support for the resolution. Germany will also participate in a discussion about the resolution within the EU and Nato, Polenz said.It's clear that Westerwelle enjoys playing the role of Germany's pacifist-in-chief. Speaking in his office in Berlin on Friday morning, he justified his scepticism about a military intervention yet again. The German government sees \"significant dangers and risks\", he said, meaning that it could not support the whole resolution.Westerwelle has been striking exactly that tone for weeks now. At first, his stance earned him praise, even from the opposition. But now, given the risk that Libyan rebels could be massacred by Gaddafi's troops if they do not receive military help, Westerwelle's position seems oddly out of touch with reality. Merkel and Westerwelle apparently hope that the German \"nein\" will go down well with the electorate. That may well be the case. But within Nato, Berlin's abstention is likely to be perceived as showing a lack of solidarity with Germany's allies.Indeed, it seems as if the Merkel-Westerwelle duo have become trapped by their own position.When the insurgency against Gaddafi broke out, Westerwelle promptly stated his support for the repressed opposition. Earlier, he had initially been cautious before making any pronouncements about Tunisia and Egypt, but in the case of Libya, he quickly called out Gaddafi as a dictator, and argued in favour of EU-level sanctions against the regime in Tripoli.But when Gaddafi proved hard to topple, and his troops began a counteroffensive, retaking one city after another, Westerwelle didn't prove any more flexible in his stance. Over time, his scepticism about a no-fly zone grew into a firm \"no\". And as Britain and France lobbied for military action, a resurgent Gaddafi praised Germany's position. That fact alone should have been deeply embarrassing for Berlin.By then, at the very latest, Westerwelle and Merkel ought to have shifted their positions. Besides, by that point, the Arab states had already said they would actively participate in a no-fly zone \u2013 one of the main pre-conditions Westerwelle himself had stipulated for any UN mandate.Nevertheless, Merkel and Westerwelle stuck to their positions. In recent days, Westerwelle even intensified the tenor of his rhetoric. However, his target was not Gaddafi but, indirectly, London and Paris. Washington, for its part, had long remained undecided. Speaking on Friday morning, Westerwelle also reiterated a statement he has oft repeated in recent days: \"German soldiers will not participate in a military mission in Libya.\"It's exactly the kind of sentence that former German Chancellor Gerhard Schr\u00f6der of the centre-left Social Democratic party (SPD) might have used. During the last Iraq war, he adopted early on the position that Germany would not participate \u2013 right in the middle of a national election campaign in 2002.Westerwelle surely had similar considerations on his mind. After all, there is considerable scepticism regarding overseas military operations among the German population, and particularly amid the members of the upper-middle class who tend to vote for his business-friendly Free Democratic party. At the beginning of the year, Westerwelle's position as FDP leader looked shaky amid internal opposition. But he managed to stabilise his situation after the FDP's decent performance in elections in the city-state of Hamburg. Now the FDP faces elections this weekend in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt. A week later, pivotal votes take place in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg and Rhineland-Palatinate in western Germany that could have implications for Merkel's and Westerwelle's coalition government.Now Westerwelle is taking his cue from Schr\u00f6der, and he clearly thinks this is a recipe for domestic political success. But Schr\u00f6der was better positioned in 2002 \u2013 he also had the French on his side within the UN security council. This time around, though, France opposes Westerwelle's position, and that is a crucial difference. The Berlin-Paris axis, which is also very important for the EU, has been damaged by the split.", "tags": ["Germany", "Libya", "United Nations", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Europe", "Angela Merkel", "Muammar Gaddafi", "Africa"], "title": "Germany has marginalised itself over Libya | Severin Weiland and Roland Nelles"},{"date": "2011-03-18T00:05:09Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Timothy Garton Ash's claim that Germany sets an example of how to deal with the aftermath of a dictatorship is absurd (Comment, 17 March). Indeed, he admits that de-nazification \"stopped abruptly\" when West Germany became independent. It was worse than that: the Adenauer government had a deliberate policy of rehiring Nazis who had been purged by the allied occupation authorities. The vast majority of German war criminals got away with it, and drew comfortable pensions for their crimes. Companies like Krupp that had been the engine of the Third Reich were equally important in the Federal Republic. Garton Ash ignores the most obvious difference between the postwar German situation and those now arising: unpopular dictators are now being overthrown by their own people. Hitler was very popular with the Germans (probably more so than Churchill with the British) and was overthrown by foreign conquest. Those war criminals who were punished were condemned by allied military courts, not by West German ones. \"Victors' justice\" was surely preferable to accomplices' justice.John WilsonLondon\u2022 Timothy Garton Ash's amnesia about the way West Germany dealt with its Nazi past is astounding. Hitler's chief of counterinsurgency became the Federal Republic's top intelligence agent; Nazi generals like Speidel and Kissinger continued to serve in the top echelons of the army; leading judges, doctors and academics who served the Nazis with ardent commitment continued in their former posts, while those who had fought the fascists were often persecuted, had their pensions docked and were treated as lepers. The present orchestrated campaign against the GDR state security forces has more to do with extirpating any remaining \"nostalgia\" for the GDR and of the idea of an alternative to capitalism than it does with a desire to overcome the past.John GreenLondon", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Middle East and North Africa", "War crimes", "Law", "Adolf Hitler"], "title": "Letters: Germany is no example for ex-dictatorships"},{"date": "2011-03-14T15:08:13Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany is Europe's most populous nation, home to about 82 million people. That might be a dreadful squash were it not also one of Europe's biggest countries - and were the birth rate not plummeting. Approximately 160,000 more people die in Germany each year than are born and there are 16.7 million over-65s, though immigration keeps the population pretty constant. As a result of its postwar gastarbeiter (guest worker) recruitment drive, every fifth person now has a \"migration background\": they or their forebears moved to Germany since 1949. At the last count, around 2.8 million Turks and almost 96,000 Brits were living in Germany, and the average baby could expect to live to 81.Officially Christian, with 34% of Germans saying they are Catholic and the same percentage Protestant. There are now just over 104,000 practising Jews out of a total of approximately 240,000 living in Germany, and an estimated 4 million Muslims. Given the main party in the ruling coalition is Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union, it is no surprise that the government supports what might be called Christian values. There are big tax breaks for getting married, and there is no legal right to abortion on demand (though in practice, it is unpunishable with a foetus up to 12 weeks). Getting baptised can be an expensive business, as churches are allowed to tax members 8% or 9% of their income tax once they come of age. Germany is one of Europe's most beautiful and varied countries, but most Brits are too busy holidaying in France and Spain to have noticed. It\u00a0has a surprising 1,500 miles of stunning coastline along what we call the Baltic Sea, but which the Germans confusingly refer to as the Ostsee (East\u00a0Sea). It has numerous lakes, including the popular Bodensee in the south, which Anglophones know as Lake Constance. Then there are the vineyards of the Franconia region of Bavaria, Alpine mountains in Garmisch-Partenkirchen and natural springs around the Black Forest in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg. Germany also has a lot of neighbours: it borders Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, France, Switzerland, Austria, the Czech Republic and Poland.Bafflingly successful, even to native economists. Initially, the country with the world's fourth largest GDP struggled with the recession like everyone else. Employment figures remained fairly stable, however, and in 2010 Germany enjoyed the largest growth since the country was reunified in 1989. Many attribute this to the family-run companies that specialise in quality engineering, churning out anything from solar power panels to rollercoaster parts. A strong apprenticeship system and a\u00a0history of guild-based crafts guarantees that Germany's reputation for quality craftsmanship remains unsurpassed. With economic confidence at a high, there has been some disgruntlement with the bailouts of struggling eurozone economies such as those of Greece and Ireland. It's worth bearing in mind, though, that Germans are notoriously thrifty and, until that changes, the country's status as export kings (second only to China) continues to rely on happy shoppers abroad.Frankly too complicated even for many Germans to get their heads around properly. Parliament is made up of a lower house, the Bundestag, which is voted directly every four years, and an upper house, the Bundesrat - made up of locally elected representatives from the 16 l\u00e4nder, or regions. The Bundestag can cook up new laws, while the Bundesrat can pass or veto them. Just to make things more complicated, there is also not just one but two federal law courts which can put laws up for judicial review. Given this laborious setup, passing laws in Germany takes time - which means politicians think thrice before even considering changing legislation, and German governments tend to be rather stable affairs. It's different at municipal level, and minor laws can vary wildly. Ask the landlord before you light a cigarette in a pub.Until a recent law change, students could take as long as they liked to finish\u00a0a degree, dabbling in whichever subjects they fancied and postponing their exams if they didn't quite feel up to it when the day came. And with negligible tuition fees, who can blame them? This has resulted in swaths of\u00a0broadly educated individuals who\u00a0are used to thinking very long and hard about things. Go to a pub with a bunch of Germans, and you are far more likely to talk about the big questions in life than who deserves to get to the next round of The X\u00a0Factor (or rather, Deutschland Sucht den Superstar). Poets and novelists such as enfants terribles Daniel Kehlmann and Helene Hegemann are more likely to garner column inches than televisual highlights, though the reverence for poets and thinkers that led to the near-deification of G\u00fcnter Grass, J\u00fcrgen Habermas et al seems to be on the wane.Germans can be quite literal, straight-forward people. If you ask if they wouldn't possibly mind moving their bag from that spare train seat, and they would rather not, they will tell you. They are not afraid to interfere in others' business if they feel they know better and do not fear admonishing their fellow citizens, whether for crossing the road on red or daring to talk in the sauna. Most Germans do as they are\u00a0told, which is why there are no barriers at tube stations, and being caught\u00a0with no ticket (schwarzfahren) is a big social no-no. They are not prudish or squeamish, and will feel no shame telling you about their durchfall (diarrhoea) or getting their kit off by a lake or even municipal park in summer. They are also dreadful hypochondriacs who place such unshakeable faith in doctors that a quite astonishing 50% of all German GPs fob patients off with placebos, according to a recent study. And yes, they are still punctual. If you are invited to dinner at eight and don't show up until half past, don't blame us if you miss the starter.The German passion for all things porcine is perhaps only rivalled by Spain - another place where vegetarians are advised to point out they don't eat pork either. Sausages are still a national passion, with each region taking great pride in its own variety, from the faintly obscene Thuringian schlongs to the ketchup-smothered currywursts of Berlin. Though vegetarianism is on\u00a0the increase, Germans are still not great vegetable eaters, preferring great hits of carbohydrates such as the southern German speciality of sp\u00e4tzle, a sort of worm-like pasta usually smothered in cheese and bacon bits, or huge slabs of cake, enjoyed at all times of day. Asparagus - spargel - is a national passion, and eating it is pretty much compulsory during the Spargelzeit (TV adverts will remind you of the season should you forget). Your average family is probably more likely to have lasagne for tea than white sausage and sauerkraut. One urban myth\u00a0would have it that Berlin gave the world doner kebabs in much the same way that Brits invented chicken tikka masala. Germany is a paradise for beer drinkers, with\u00a0each\u00a0town favouring its own brew. German wine is vastly underrated, particularly Sp\u00e4tburgunder red and Riesling whites.To understand why Germans are so confident about sex, just look at the top-selling teenage magazine, Bravo. Each week, two young readers (one girl, one boy) are photographed in the buff and interviewed about their love lives, depilatory regime, etc. There is also a legendary agony uncle, Dr Sommer, who answers letters with headlines such as \"I'm circumcised and ashamed!\" and \"My mum caught me masturbating\". As a result, sex is not taboo, and the TV presenter Charlotte Roche - who last year offered to sleep with\u00a0the\u00a0German president if he didn't sign a law extending nuclear power stations' life - was able to bring out a bestselling novel, Wet Lands, about a teenage girl preoccupied with masturbating with an avocado stone. Brits are often surprised to discover that Germans do not appear to require alcohol to sleep with each other for the first time. German women are legendarily feisty and tend to call the shots in the bedroom. Think the title character in Rainer Werner Fassbinder's The Marriage of Maria Braun, who, the morning after sleeping with her boss, tells him: \"I don't care what people think. I do care what you think. And you're not having an affair with me. I'm having an\u00a0affair with you.\" This anything-goes attitude has consequences: apparently Aids/HIV has doubled in the last 10 years.Germans can be positively neurotic about their reputation as a kulturnation. German cinema used to lead the way in the silent era and, every few years, collective hopes are raised for a return to the golden years. Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck's Oscar-winning The Lives of Others in particular stoked talk of a revival, though anyone who has seen Otto Waalkes' Otto's Eleven, Till Schweiger's\u00a0Kokow\u00e4\u00e4h or even Von Donnersmarck follow-up The\u00a0Tourist knows there is no point in getting too excited. Television is still swamped by badly dubbed voiceovers of American sitcoms and carbon-copy reality shows such as Dschungelcamp (I'm a Celebrity \u2026 Get Me Out of Here!) and Deutschland Sucht den Superstar. Cop show Tatort is set in a different German city each week and has become\u00a0cult viewing for its understated drama. Musically, \"big in Germany\" is always going to be a mark of mockery in Britain, but German hip-hop is considerably better than its reputation would suggest, and electronic labels such as the Cologne-based Kompakt are respected worldwide. Lily Allen-esque singer Lena won the Eurovision song contest last year and had the country acting like a bunch of 14-year-olds, though sending her to the contest for a second time this year increasingly looks like a bad idea.Everyone knows about German history. But post-1945 (West) Germany has gone through a painful and exemplary period of self-scrutiny, with the Holocaust acknowledged and remembered as an unprecedented crime. And there is much more to German history than the Third Reich: big literary names from Goethe (below) and Schiller through to Thomas Mann, a pantheon of classical composers from Bach and Handel to Beethoven and Wagner, the martial narrative of unification in the 19th century under Bismarck and the postwar economic miracle of the 1950s. And there are always the ancient Frisians and the Saxons, who settled on an obscure, rainy island off the western coast of Europe in the fifth and sixth centuries, taking their own peculiar dialect with them.Germany has traditionally been the driving force inside the European Union, as befits its status as Europe's biggest, and most economically powerful, state. Typically, you have to add \"Franco\" when discussing Germany's EU role \u2013 as in Franco-German stitch-up. In reality, however, German foreign policy has become less idealistic/integrationist/self-sacrificing in recent years and more hard-headed/self-regarding/get-your-hands-off-our-money. Angela Merkel's decision to bail out the profligate Greeks was wildly unpopular at home. Germany also has closer relations with \"mafia state\" Russia than any other European power except Berlusconi-land. Bonus points if you can name Germany's lack-lustre foreign minister and summarise what the Americans think of him, according to WikiLeaks. (Guido Westerwelle; vain and incompetent)\u2022 This article was amended on 15 -16 March and 4 April 2011. The original stated that Germany is Europe's biggest country; that there are now just over 104,000 Jews living in Germany; that getting baptised is an expensive business, as churches are allowed to tax members 8% or 9% of their income once they come of age; that renouncing one's religion may reduce one's tax bill but it is a deliberately arduous bureaucratic process (this has been removed); that the country's status as export kings is third only to China and the US. These have all been corrected. A reference to abortion has also been clarified. A reference to Gr\u00fcner Veltliner has been deleted since it is an Austrian grape variety. ", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "At-a-glance guide to Germany"},{"date": "2011-03-14T13:48:41Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel is expected to announce the suspension of plans to extend the life of Germany's nuclear power stations, after the nuclear emergency triggered by Japan's devastating earthquake.After two hydrogen explosions at the Fukushima Daiichi reactor in Japan, the German chancellor has decided to re-examine her highly controversial decision last year to renew the country's 17 nuclear plants for an average 12 years, German media is reporting.Government sources are reported to have said that Merkel took the decision on Sunday night after a crisis meeting at the Berlin headquarters of her Christian Democratic Union (CDU) party. She is expected to confirm the suspension at a press conference with her foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, at 4pm (3pm GMT).Switzerland has announced it is suspending plans to build new nuclear power stations. The Swiss energy minister, Doris Leuthard, said the suspension would affect all \"blanket authorisation for nuclear replacement until safety standards have been carefully reviewed and, if necessary, adapted\". Swiss regulatory authorities had approved three sites for new nuclear power stations after the plans were submitted in 2008.Earlier on Monday, Westerwelle told reporters that he could imagine a temporary halt in Germany's nuclear renewal programme. \"You can't cut costs where safety is concerned,\" he said. Germany's environment minister, Norbert R\u00f6ttgen, said: \"Even in the CDU, we are having to have a new debate [about nuclear power] because we are in a new situation.\"In Monday's newspapers, the opposition parties demanded a rethink on Germany's nuclear policy. Sigmar Gabriel, head of the Social Democrat party, said: \"We need to make clear that not only are the days of cheap oil over, but also the days of nuclear power.\" The Left party demanded an \"immediate, irreversible and systematic dismantling\" of Germany's nuclear power plants.The European energy commissioner, Guenther Oettinger, said safety at older German nuclear power stations must be checked rigorously, and he refused to rule out closures if necessary. He told Deutschlandfunk radio that the crisis at the Japanese nuclear plant had changed the world and put into question what had been regarded as safe and manageable.Oettinger, Germany's member of the European commission, said safety questions were primarily the responsibility of the 14 European Union states which used atomic energy, and that safety at Germany's older plants was constantly being upgraded. But asked if the older plants could be shut down, he said: \"If we take it seriously and say the incident has changed the world - and much that we as an industrial society have regarded as safe and manageable is now in question - then we can't exclude anything.\"Oettinger is a member of the CDU and a former premier of the south-western state of Baden-Wuerttemberg, where the party risks losing power in elections in two weeks, due partly to rising support for the Greens.Merkel called a crisis meeting with senior ministers on Saturday to discuss the consequences of Japan's nuclear crisis after the massive earthquake and tsunami. As thousands protested in Baden-Wuerttemberg against her nuclear policy, Merkel said Germany's nuclear plants were safe but the government was watching the situation in Japan to see if lessons could be learned.The decision last year to keep Germany's 17 nuclear plants running for about 12 years beyond their original shutdown date stirred large-scale protests and hit the ruling coalition's popularity.On Saturday, anti-nuclear protesters formed a 27-mile human chain from the city of Stuttgart to an older nuclear power plant that will be kept running longer because of the new policy. Between 50,000 and 60,000 demonstrators took part, according to police and organisers.", "tags": ["Germany", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Japan disaster", "Japan", "Europe", "World news", "Environment", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Germany likely to suspend nuclear plant plans"},{"date": "2011-06-21T15:36:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Germans are not amused these days. Look everywhere from tabloids to the blogosphere, and it seems that the public mood has reached boiling point. Loth to shoulder another national debt increase and finance another bailout, the Germans have started questioning everything from the wisdom of supporting Greece to the common euro currency, or indeed the merits of the European integration project altogether. This might be strange for a country that is nudging ever closer to full employment, and which is about to recapture its position as the world's leading exporter of manufactured goods from the Chinese. But the Germans say they've had enough: no more underwriting of European integration, no more paying for this and that, and certainly no more bailing out the Greeks.What is truly strange, however, is the brevity of Germany's collective memory. For during much of the 20th century, the situation was radically different: after the first world war and again after the second world war, Germany was the world's largest debtor, and in both cases owed its economic recovery to large-scale debt relief.Germany's interwar debt crisis started almost exactly 80 years ago, in the last days of June 1931. What had triggered it was Germany's aggressive borrowing in the late 1920s to pay reparations out of credit. A credit bubble resulted, and when it burst in 1931, it brought down reparations, the gold standard and, not least, Weimar democracy.Having footed the resulting massive bill, after the second world war the Americans imposed the London debt agreement of 1953 on their allies, an exercise in debt forgiveness to Germany on the most generous terms. West Germany's economic miracle, the stability of the deutschmark and the favourable state of its public finances were all owed to this massive haircut. But it put Germany's creditors at a disadvantage, leaving it to them to cope with the financial aftermath of the German occupation.Indeed, the London debt agreement deferred settlement of the reparations question \u2013 including the repayment of war debts and contributions imposed by Germany during the war \u2013 to a conference to be held after unification. This conference never took place: since 1990, the Germans have steadfastly refused to reopen this can of worms. Such compensation as has been paid, mostly to forced workers, was channelled through NGOs to avoid creating precedents. Only one country has challenged this openly and tried to obtain compensation in court: Greece.It may or may not have been wise to put the issue of reparations and other unsettled claims on Germany to rest after 1990. Back then, the Germans argued that any plausible bill would exceed the country's resources, and that continued financial co-operation in Europe instead would be infinitely more preferable. They may have had a point. But now is the time for Germany to deliver on the promise, act wisely and keep the bull away from the china shop.", "tags": ["Germany", "Greece", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Second world war", "Europe", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Germany owes Greece a debt | Albrecht Ritschl"},{"date": "2011-06-21T15:36:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Germans are not amused these days. Look everywhere from tabloids to the blogosphere, and it seems that the public mood has reached boiling point. Loth to shoulder another national debt increase and finance another bailout, the Germans have started questioning everything from the wisdom of supporting Greece to the common euro currency, or indeed the merits of the European integration project altogether. This might be strange for a country that is nudging ever closer to full employment, and which is about to recapture its position as the world's leading exporter of manufactured goods from the Chinese. But the Germans say they've had enough: no more underwriting of European integration, no more paying for this and that, and certainly no more bailing out the Greeks.What is truly strange, however, is the brevity of Germany's collective memory. For during much of the 20th century, the situation was radically different: after the first world war and again after the second world war, Germany was the world's largest debtor, and in both cases owed its economic recovery to large-scale debt relief.Germany's interwar debt crisis started almost exactly 80 years ago, in the last days of June 1931. What had triggered it was Germany's aggressive borrowing in the late 1920s to pay reparations out of credit. A credit bubble resulted, and when it burst in 1931, it brought down reparations, the gold standard and, not least, Weimar democracy.Having footed the resulting massive bill, after the second world war the Americans imposed the London debt agreement of 1953 on their allies, an exercise in debt forgiveness to Germany on the most generous terms. West Germany's economic miracle, the stability of the deutschmark and the favourable state of its public finances were all owed to this massive haircut. But it put Germany's creditors at a disadvantage, leaving it to them to cope with the financial aftermath of the German occupation.Indeed, the London debt agreement deferred settlement of the reparations question \u2013 including the repayment of war debts and contributions imposed by Germany during the war \u2013 to a conference to be held after unification. This conference never took place: since 1990, the Germans have steadfastly refused to reopen this can of worms. Such compensation as has been paid, mostly to forced workers, was channelled through NGOs to avoid creating precedents. Only one country has challenged this openly and tried to obtain compensation in court: Greece.It may or may not have been wise to put the issue of reparations and other unsettled claims on Germany to rest after 1990. Back then, the Germans argued that any plausible bill would exceed the country's resources, and that continued financial co-operation in Europe instead would be infinitely more preferable. They may have had a point. But now is the time for Germany to deliver on the promise, act wisely and keep the bull away from the china shop.", "tags": ["Germany", "Greece", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Second world war", "Europe", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Germany owes Greece a debt | Albrecht Ritschl"},{"date": "2011-06-21T11:24:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "John le Carr\u00e9 might have withdrawn from the running for the Man Booker International prize because he \"doesn't compete for literary awards\", but the thriller author has nonetheless accepted a medal honouring him for his contribution to \"the development of coalescence, peace and creativity in Europe\".Le Carr\u00e9 has been named as one of this year's recipients of Germany's Goethe Medal, which goes to individuals who \"have performed outstanding service for the German language and international cultural dialogue\". This \"master of the political and psychological crime novel\", according to the Goethe Institut, \"condensed Germany's difficult role during the era of the cold war\" in his books, and \"vividly brings to life the global fields of conflict\".An official decoration of the Federal Republic of Germany, first awarded in 1955, the Goethe Medal has been won in the past by Hungarian-Jewish Nobel laureate Imre Kert\u00e9sz, conductor Daniel Barenboim, film director Billy Wilder and publisher Helen Wolff.\"Fifty years after the Berlin Wall was built, 20 years after the end of the Soviet Union and 10 years after the terrorist attacks of 11 September \u2013 there could be no better moment than this to pay tribute to this extraordinary achievement of John le Carr\u00e9 with the Goethe Medal,\" said the Goethe Institut. \"Viewing language and knowledge of a country as a prerequisite for penetrating world history and understanding ideologies, religions and peoples \u2013 these are the aspects that characterise the life's work of John le Carr\u00e9 ... His novels, whose themes revolve around the contrasts between east and west and the cold war, captivate the reader with their painstaking psychological depiction of the characters and their wealth of historical details \u2013 Le Carr\u00e9 broke with stereotypical viewpoints and criticised the betrayal of western ideals.\"But the author's political involvement goes beyond his writing, the organisation added: \"he repeatedly adopts a public and critical stance on the politics of the West, especially the British-American anti-terror coalition in the wake of the attacks of 11 September\".Le Carr\u00e9 is being recognised for his life's work, the Goethe Institut said, calling him \"Great Britain's most famous German speaker\" and adding that he \"has always been convinced that language learning is the key to understanding foreign cultures\". The English author left school at 16 to study modern languages in Switzerland \u2013 \"determined to embrace the German soul\", he said last year \u2013 deciding in 1949 that Germany was \"worth examining\". From 1959, he worked in Bonn at the British Embassy, and as an agent for the British secret service.Speaking at the Think German conference last year, Le Carr\u00e9 said that for most of his \"conscious childhood Germany had been the rogue elephant in the drawing room. Germans were murderous fellows. They had bombed one of my schools (which I did not entirely take amiss); they had bombed my grandparents' tennis court, which was very serious, and I was terrified of them. But in my rebellious adolescent state, a country that had been so thoroughly bad was also by definition worth examining. Also, one of the few things I had enjoyed about my schooling had been the German language, with which my tongue had formed a natural, friendly relationship.\"The Goethe Institut will award the medal to the author on 28 August in Weimar, when French theatre director Ariane Mnouchkine and Polish intellectual Adam Michnik will also be honoured.", "tags": ["John le Carr\u00e9", "Books", "Thrillers", "Fiction", "Culture"], "title": "Germany honours Le Carr\u00e9 with Goethe Medal"},{"date": "2011-06-21T15:36:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Germans are not amused these days. Look everywhere from tabloids to the blogosphere, and it seems that the public mood has reached boiling point. Loth to shoulder another national debt increase and finance another bailout, the Germans have started questioning everything from the wisdom of supporting Greece to the common euro currency, or indeed the merits of the European integration project altogether. This might be strange for a country that is nudging ever closer to full employment, and which is about to recapture its position as the world's leading exporter of manufactured goods from the Chinese. But the Germans say they've had enough: no more underwriting of European integration, no more paying for this and that, and certainly no more bailing out the Greeks.What is truly strange, however, is the brevity of Germany's collective memory. For during much of the 20th century, the situation was radically different: after the first world war and again after the second world war, Germany was the world's largest debtor, and in both cases owed its economic recovery to large-scale debt relief.Germany's interwar debt crisis started almost exactly 80 years ago, in the last days of June 1931. What had triggered it was Germany's aggressive borrowing in the late 1920s to pay reparations out of credit. A credit bubble resulted, and when it burst in 1931, it brought down reparations, the gold standard and, not least, Weimar democracy.Having footed the resulting massive bill, after the second world war the Americans imposed the London debt agreement of 1953 on their allies, an exercise in debt forgiveness to Germany on the most generous terms. West Germany's economic miracle, the stability of the deutschmark and the favourable state of its public finances were all owed to this massive haircut. But it put Germany's creditors at a disadvantage, leaving it to them to cope with the financial aftermath of the German occupation.Indeed, the London debt agreement deferred settlement of the reparations question \u2013 including the repayment of war debts and contributions imposed by Germany during the war \u2013 to a conference to be held after unification. This conference never took place: since 1990, the Germans have steadfastly refused to reopen this can of worms. Such compensation as has been paid, mostly to forced workers, was channelled through NGOs to avoid creating precedents. Only one country has challenged this openly and tried to obtain compensation in court: Greece.It may or may not have been wise to put the issue of reparations and other unsettled claims on Germany to rest after 1990. Back then, the Germans argued that any plausible bill would exceed the country's resources, and that continued financial co-operation in Europe instead would be infinitely more preferable. They may have had a point. But now is the time for Germany to deliver on the promise, act wisely and keep the bull away from the china shop.", "tags": ["Germany", "Greece", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Second world war", "Europe", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Germany owes Greece a debt | Albrecht Ritschl"},{"date": "2011-06-21T11:24:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "John le Carr\u00e9 might have withdrawn from the running for the Man Booker International prize because he \"doesn't compete for literary awards\", but the thriller author has nonetheless accepted a medal honouring him for his contribution to \"the development of coalescence, peace and creativity in Europe\".Le Carr\u00e9 has been named as one of this year's recipients of Germany's Goethe Medal, which goes to individuals who \"have performed outstanding service for the German language and international cultural dialogue\". This \"master of the political and psychological crime novel\", according to the Goethe Institut, \"condensed Germany's difficult role during the era of the cold war\" in his books, and \"vividly brings to life the global fields of conflict\".An official decoration of the Federal Republic of Germany, first awarded in 1955, the Goethe Medal has been won in the past by Hungarian-Jewish Nobel laureate Imre Kert\u00e9sz, conductor Daniel Barenboim, film director Billy Wilder and publisher Helen Wolff.\"Fifty years after the Berlin Wall was built, 20 years after the end of the Soviet Union and 10 years after the terrorist attacks of 11 September \u2013 there could be no better moment than this to pay tribute to this extraordinary achievement of John le Carr\u00e9 with the Goethe Medal,\" said the Goethe Institut. \"Viewing language and knowledge of a country as a prerequisite for penetrating world history and understanding ideologies, religions and peoples \u2013 these are the aspects that characterise the life's work of John le Carr\u00e9 ... His novels, whose themes revolve around the contrasts between east and west and the cold war, captivate the reader with their painstaking psychological depiction of the characters and their wealth of historical details \u2013 Le Carr\u00e9 broke with stereotypical viewpoints and criticised the betrayal of western ideals.\"But the author's political involvement goes beyond his writing, the organisation added: \"he repeatedly adopts a public and critical stance on the politics of the West, especially the British-American anti-terror coalition in the wake of the attacks of 11 September\".Le Carr\u00e9 is being recognised for his life's work, the Goethe Institut said, calling him \"Great Britain's most famous German speaker\" and adding that he \"has always been convinced that language learning is the key to understanding foreign cultures\". The English author left school at 16 to study modern languages in Switzerland \u2013 \"determined to embrace the German soul\", he said last year \u2013 deciding in 1949 that Germany was \"worth examining\". From 1959, he worked in Bonn at the British Embassy, and as an agent for the British secret service.Speaking at the Think German conference last year, Le Carr\u00e9 said that for most of his \"conscious childhood Germany had been the rogue elephant in the drawing room. Germans were murderous fellows. They had bombed one of my schools (which I did not entirely take amiss); they had bombed my grandparents' tennis court, which was very serious, and I was terrified of them. But in my rebellious adolescent state, a country that had been so thoroughly bad was also by definition worth examining. Also, one of the few things I had enjoyed about my schooling had been the German language, with which my tongue had formed a natural, friendly relationship.\"The Goethe Institut will award the medal to the author on 28 August in Weimar, when French theatre director Ariane Mnouchkine and Polish intellectual Adam Michnik will also be honoured.", "tags": ["John le Carr\u00e9", "Books", "Thrillers", "Fiction", "Culture"], "title": "Germany honours Le Carr\u00e9 with Goethe Medal"},{"date": "2011-06-17T17:17:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has sued for peace with the European Central Bank (ECB), following weeks of feuding over how to rescue Greece from the devastating debt crisis threatening the future of the euro single currency.Merkel announced on Friday that the decisions on a new three-year bailout package for Greece, tipped to run to \u20ac120bn (\u00a3106bn), would need to be agreed with the ECB.At a Berlin summit with the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, Merkel softened her terms for the Greek bailout, urged a quick decision, stressed that any participation by private creditors in the rescue should be voluntary, and insisted that a new package with Greece would be agreed together with the ECB.Her climbdown was welcomed by the financial markets, as the prospect of Greece suffering a catastrophic disorderly default receded. The euro rallied strongly, gaining more than one cent against the dollar. Europe's major stock markets also closed higher as traders took a more positive view of the Greek situation.The German media, though, promptly predicted that Merkel's olive branch could cost her politically at home.\"For the German government, this is a remarkable shift,\" said the liberal Sueddeutsche Zeitung. \"The chancellor has backed off from a central German demand,\" said the conservative Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.In a research note, JP Morgan said that Berlin seemed to be dropping its insistence on a bond swap by Greece's private creditors, the central factor that the ECB feared would cause the country to be declared in sovereign default.The Berlin summit came at the end of a week of intense political and market turbulence, with riots on the streets of Athens, a Greek government on the brink of collapse, and bad-tempered disarray among EU leaders. And despite the apparent progress, it remains to be seen how the second Greek bailout in a year will be structured.Sarkozy has been on the ECB side of the argument, and characteristically he claimed a breakthrough in Berlin, saying that France and Germany were united on all the essential points on Greece.Merkel has become increasingly isolated in the last fortnight over Germany's insistence that Greece's private creditors \u2013 the banks, pension funds and insurance companies holding much of the insolvent country's \u20ac340bn of debt \u2013 have to take \"haircuts\" or sizeable losses on their investments as part of this second deal to rescue Greece.The Germans wanted the creditors to swap maturing Greek bonds for new seven-year paper bonds on a scale that would be \"quantifiable and substantial.\"The ECB, supported by the European Commission, France and Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, head of the group of 17 eurozone countries, had warned that Berlin's policy could trigger calamity. The ratings agencies would declare Greece in default, bringing down the Greek banks and unleashing financial failure across the European banking sector.The ECB recommended a rollover of Greek debt, with the banks pledging to buy new Greek paper as current loans are repaid, avoiding a \"credit event\" or a Greek default. It now seems that this option will prevail, and a deal will be reached much more quickly following Merkel's concessions.She emphasised that any involvement by private creditors would be \"explicitly voluntary\".A German parliament resolution last week underpinning her negotiating mandate in the EU stipulated that the German government could only agree to a new bailout \"if an appropriate involvement of private creditors is included\".The Germans hoped this latter would amount to one quarter of the slated \u20ac120bn, but the contribution could now be merely symbolic. As she has consistently done throughout the 18-month crisis, Merkel had been playing for time, initially hoping to put off a new bailout until September. After the summit in Berlin, she said: \"It's not about September. It's about the quickest possible solution.\"Finance ministers from the eurozone and the EU meet in Luxembourg on Sunday and on Monday, and could now hammer out a bailout deal to be blessed by a European summit on Thursday.Greece became the first eurozone country to require a bailout in May last year when the Europeans put together a \u20ac110bn package. That has failed amid escalating turmoil in Greece and growing resistance to the swingeing austerity programmes that were the price for the rescue.In a move offering further potential turmoil for the financial markets, the credit ratings agency Moody's said that it may cut Italy's sovereign credit rating from AA2, citing challenges ahead for economic growth due to structural weaknesses and a likely rise in interest rates. visit Luxembourg on Monday for talks with EU leaders who are anxious that the entire rescue scenario could still unravel because of his inability to deliver on a radical privatisation programme, spending cuts, and tax increases.Merkel's remarks came as the IMF warned that debt-ridden European countries were \"playing with fire\" unless they took immediate steps to reduce their budget deficits.The IMF, in its regular assessment of global economic prospects, said bigger threats to growth had emerged since its previous report in April, citing the eurozone debt crisis and signs of overheating in emerging market economies.The IMF also revised downwards its forecast for US growth, estimating GDP would grow a tepid 2.5% this year and 2.7% in 2012 compared with an expected 2.8% and 2.9% growth, respectively, two months ago.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Economics", "Global economy", "Greece", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union"], "title": "Germany retreats from battle over Greek bailout"},{"date": "2011-06-21T15:36:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Germans are not amused these days. Look everywhere from tabloids to the blogosphere, and it seems that the public mood has reached boiling point. Loth to shoulder another national debt increase and finance another bailout, the Germans have started questioning everything from the wisdom of supporting Greece to the common euro currency, or indeed the merits of the European integration project altogether. This might be strange for a country that is nudging ever closer to full employment, and which is about to recapture its position as the world's leading exporter of manufactured goods from the Chinese. But the Germans say they've had enough: no more underwriting of European integration, no more paying for this and that, and certainly no more bailing out the Greeks.What is truly strange, however, is the brevity of Germany's collective memory. For during much of the 20th century, the situation was radically different: after the first world war and again after the second world war, Germany was the world's largest debtor, and in both cases owed its economic recovery to large-scale debt relief.Germany's interwar debt crisis started almost exactly 80 years ago, in the last days of June 1931. What had triggered it was Germany's aggressive borrowing in the late 1920s to pay reparations out of credit. A credit bubble resulted, and when it burst in 1931, it brought down reparations, the gold standard and, not least, Weimar democracy.Having footed the resulting massive bill, after the second world war the Americans imposed the London debt agreement of 1953 on their allies, an exercise in debt forgiveness to Germany on the most generous terms. West Germany's economic miracle, the stability of the deutschmark and the favourable state of its public finances were all owed to this massive haircut. But it put Germany's creditors at a disadvantage, leaving it to them to cope with the financial aftermath of the German occupation.Indeed, the London debt agreement deferred settlement of the reparations question \u2013 including the repayment of war debts and contributions imposed by Germany during the war \u2013 to a conference to be held after unification. This conference never took place: since 1990, the Germans have steadfastly refused to reopen this can of worms. Such compensation as has been paid, mostly to forced workers, was channelled through NGOs to avoid creating precedents. Only one country has challenged this openly and tried to obtain compensation in court: Greece.It may or may not have been wise to put the issue of reparations and other unsettled claims on Germany to rest after 1990. Back then, the Germans argued that any plausible bill would exceed the country's resources, and that continued financial co-operation in Europe instead would be infinitely more preferable. They may have had a point. But now is the time for Germany to deliver on the promise, act wisely and keep the bull away from the china shop.", "tags": ["Germany", "Greece", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Second world war", "Europe", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Germany owes Greece a debt | Albrecht Ritschl"},{"date": "2011-06-21T11:24:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "John le Carr\u00e9 might have withdrawn from the running for the Man Booker International prize because he \"doesn't compete for literary awards\", but the thriller author has nonetheless accepted a medal honouring him for his contribution to \"the development of coalescence, peace and creativity in Europe\".Le Carr\u00e9 has been named as one of this year's recipients of Germany's Goethe Medal, which goes to individuals who \"have performed outstanding service for the German language and international cultural dialogue\". This \"master of the political and psychological crime novel\", according to the Goethe Institut, \"condensed Germany's difficult role during the era of the cold war\" in his books, and \"vividly brings to life the global fields of conflict\".An official decoration of the Federal Republic of Germany, first awarded in 1955, the Goethe Medal has been won in the past by Hungarian-Jewish Nobel laureate Imre Kert\u00e9sz, conductor Daniel Barenboim, film director Billy Wilder and publisher Helen Wolff.\"Fifty years after the Berlin Wall was built, 20 years after the end of the Soviet Union and 10 years after the terrorist attacks of 11 September \u2013 there could be no better moment than this to pay tribute to this extraordinary achievement of John le Carr\u00e9 with the Goethe Medal,\" said the Goethe Institut. \"Viewing language and knowledge of a country as a prerequisite for penetrating world history and understanding ideologies, religions and peoples \u2013 these are the aspects that characterise the life's work of John le Carr\u00e9 ... His novels, whose themes revolve around the contrasts between east and west and the cold war, captivate the reader with their painstaking psychological depiction of the characters and their wealth of historical details \u2013 Le Carr\u00e9 broke with stereotypical viewpoints and criticised the betrayal of western ideals.\"But the author's political involvement goes beyond his writing, the organisation added: \"he repeatedly adopts a public and critical stance on the politics of the West, especially the British-American anti-terror coalition in the wake of the attacks of 11 September\".Le Carr\u00e9 is being recognised for his life's work, the Goethe Institut said, calling him \"Great Britain's most famous German speaker\" and adding that he \"has always been convinced that language learning is the key to understanding foreign cultures\". The English author left school at 16 to study modern languages in Switzerland \u2013 \"determined to embrace the German soul\", he said last year \u2013 deciding in 1949 that Germany was \"worth examining\". From 1959, he worked in Bonn at the British Embassy, and as an agent for the British secret service.Speaking at the Think German conference last year, Le Carr\u00e9 said that for most of his \"conscious childhood Germany had been the rogue elephant in the drawing room. Germans were murderous fellows. They had bombed one of my schools (which I did not entirely take amiss); they had bombed my grandparents' tennis court, which was very serious, and I was terrified of them. But in my rebellious adolescent state, a country that had been so thoroughly bad was also by definition worth examining. Also, one of the few things I had enjoyed about my schooling had been the German language, with which my tongue had formed a natural, friendly relationship.\"The Goethe Institut will award the medal to the author on 28 August in Weimar, when French theatre director Ariane Mnouchkine and Polish intellectual Adam Michnik will also be honoured.", "tags": ["John le Carr\u00e9", "Books", "Thrillers", "Fiction", "Culture"], "title": "Germany honours Le Carr\u00e9 with Goethe Medal"},{"date": "2011-06-17T17:17:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has sued for peace with the European Central Bank (ECB), following weeks of feuding over how to rescue Greece from the devastating debt crisis threatening the future of the euro single currency.Merkel announced on Friday that the decisions on a new three-year bailout package for Greece, tipped to run to \u20ac120bn (\u00a3106bn), would need to be agreed with the ECB.At a Berlin summit with the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, Merkel softened her terms for the Greek bailout, urged a quick decision, stressed that any participation by private creditors in the rescue should be voluntary, and insisted that a new package with Greece would be agreed together with the ECB.Her climbdown was welcomed by the financial markets, as the prospect of Greece suffering a catastrophic disorderly default receded. The euro rallied strongly, gaining more than one cent against the dollar. Europe's major stock markets also closed higher as traders took a more positive view of the Greek situation.The German media, though, promptly predicted that Merkel's olive branch could cost her politically at home.\"For the German government, this is a remarkable shift,\" said the liberal Sueddeutsche Zeitung. \"The chancellor has backed off from a central German demand,\" said the conservative Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.In a research note, JP Morgan said that Berlin seemed to be dropping its insistence on a bond swap by Greece's private creditors, the central factor that the ECB feared would cause the country to be declared in sovereign default.The Berlin summit came at the end of a week of intense political and market turbulence, with riots on the streets of Athens, a Greek government on the brink of collapse, and bad-tempered disarray among EU leaders. And despite the apparent progress, it remains to be seen how the second Greek bailout in a year will be structured.Sarkozy has been on the ECB side of the argument, and characteristically he claimed a breakthrough in Berlin, saying that France and Germany were united on all the essential points on Greece.Merkel has become increasingly isolated in the last fortnight over Germany's insistence that Greece's private creditors \u2013 the banks, pension funds and insurance companies holding much of the insolvent country's \u20ac340bn of debt \u2013 have to take \"haircuts\" or sizeable losses on their investments as part of this second deal to rescue Greece.The Germans wanted the creditors to swap maturing Greek bonds for new seven-year paper bonds on a scale that would be \"quantifiable and substantial.\"The ECB, supported by the European Commission, France and Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, head of the group of 17 eurozone countries, had warned that Berlin's policy could trigger calamity. The ratings agencies would declare Greece in default, bringing down the Greek banks and unleashing financial failure across the European banking sector.The ECB recommended a rollover of Greek debt, with the banks pledging to buy new Greek paper as current loans are repaid, avoiding a \"credit event\" or a Greek default. It now seems that this option will prevail, and a deal will be reached much more quickly following Merkel's concessions.She emphasised that any involvement by private creditors would be \"explicitly voluntary\".A German parliament resolution last week underpinning her negotiating mandate in the EU stipulated that the German government could only agree to a new bailout \"if an appropriate involvement of private creditors is included\".The Germans hoped this latter would amount to one quarter of the slated \u20ac120bn, but the contribution could now be merely symbolic. As she has consistently done throughout the 18-month crisis, Merkel had been playing for time, initially hoping to put off a new bailout until September. After the summit in Berlin, she said: \"It's not about September. It's about the quickest possible solution.\"Finance ministers from the eurozone and the EU meet in Luxembourg on Sunday and on Monday, and could now hammer out a bailout deal to be blessed by a European summit on Thursday.Greece became the first eurozone country to require a bailout in May last year when the Europeans put together a \u20ac110bn package. That has failed amid escalating turmoil in Greece and growing resistance to the swingeing austerity programmes that were the price for the rescue.In a move offering further potential turmoil for the financial markets, the credit ratings agency Moody's said that it may cut Italy's sovereign credit rating from AA2, citing challenges ahead for economic growth due to structural weaknesses and a likely rise in interest rates. visit Luxembourg on Monday for talks with EU leaders who are anxious that the entire rescue scenario could still unravel because of his inability to deliver on a radical privatisation programme, spending cuts, and tax increases.Merkel's remarks came as the IMF warned that debt-ridden European countries were \"playing with fire\" unless they took immediate steps to reduce their budget deficits.The IMF, in its regular assessment of global economic prospects, said bigger threats to growth had emerged since its previous report in April, citing the eurozone debt crisis and signs of overheating in emerging market economies.The IMF also revised downwards its forecast for US growth, estimating GDP would grow a tepid 2.5% this year and 2.7% in 2012 compared with an expected 2.8% and 2.9% growth, respectively, two months ago.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Economics", "Global economy", "Greece", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union"], "title": "Germany retreats from battle over Greek bailout"},{"date": "2011-06-17T12:08:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has admitted defeat over Germany's plan to force private banks to contribute funds to a new bailout package designed to rescue the Greek economy.After a meeting with the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, in Berlin on Thursday, the German chancellor said they had agreed that any contribution from private creditors to the package would have to be voluntary.\"We want the participation of private creditors on a voluntary basis,\" said Merkel, stressing that there was no legal way in which banks could be forced to play along.Sarkozy welcomed Germany's change of position, describing it as \"a breakthrough\".Merkel and Sarkozy both declined to set a date for the Greek deal to be finalised. But Sarkozy indicated that time was running out. \"We want a quick fix \u2026 there is no time to waste,\" he said.The summit was well received by financial markets, which have fallen sharply in recent days as investors feared that Greece would suffer a disorderly default.In London the FTSE 100 index erased early losses, and the euro strengthened against other major currencies. Greek government bonds also staged a small recovery. The yield, or interest rate, on the two-year Greek bond dropped to 28.6%, from over 30% early on Friday.Merkel's admission was a significant climbdown from her earlier position. Berlin had lobbied noisily for the compulsory participation in a new Greek bailout of private lenders, many of whom stand to lose heavily if Greece defaults on its \u20ac300bn (\u00a3265bn) debts.Last year's first Greek bailout, part-funded by European taxpayers, was hugely unpopular in Germany, and Merkel was keen to send a message to voters that not just they, but also the banks, would be paying this time around.Earlier this month European Union finance ministers were said to be considering a plan in which private creditors possessing Greek state bonds would be asked to cover \u20ac20bn \u2013 \u20ac35bn of the costs .As Europe's paymaster, Germany had called for Greece's private creditors to swap their bonds for new ones with maturities that are seven years longer, but encountered fierce resistance to those plans from France, the European central bank and European commission. France in particular was adamant that trying to force private creditors into any Greek deal would be dangerous for the markets.On Thursday the head of the eurozone, Jean-Claude Juncker, said that imposing losses on investors could trigger a European version of the Lehman Brothers bank collapse \u2013 a so-called \"credit event\". \"It's a really ugly situation. The [German] idea is dangerous. It could provoke the gravest risk, that all three rating agencies declare a credit event and then there are big contagion risks for other countries,\" he said.Merkel's meeting with Sarkozy on Friday morning in Berlin was the first face-to-face meeting between the two leaders in seven very rocky months in Franco-German relations. On Wednesday the French ambassador to Germany, Maurice Gourdault-Montagne, told a select group of German journalists that Berlin pays too little attention to its ties with Paris.The ambassador suggested Merkel did not give Sarkozky enough face time, pointing out that the last chancellor, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der, agreed to more one-on-one meetings with his French counterpart when he was in power.But at Thursday's press conference at the chancellery, Sarkozy heralded a \"major breakthrough\" with \"our German friends\". In three hours of talks, he and Merkel had at least agreed that there ideally should be some involvement on the private sector in the Greece bailout, he said.The deal was based on four principles: voluntary participation, speed, no payment default and agreement with the European central bank. Both leaders also stressed that Greece had to comply with its obligations.The duo were keen to reach a consensus ahead of next week's EU summit in Brussels, which will see European leaders try to hammer out a Greek deal.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "World news", "Euro", "Currencies", "Business", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "Germany", "France", "Angela Merkel", "Nicolas Sarkozy"], "title": "Germany climbs down over Greece bailout demands"},{"date": "2011-06-21T15:36:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Germans are not amused these days. Look everywhere from tabloids to the blogosphere, and it seems that the public mood has reached boiling point. Loth to shoulder another national debt increase and finance another bailout, the Germans have started questioning everything from the wisdom of supporting Greece to the common euro currency, or indeed the merits of the European integration project altogether. This might be strange for a country that is nudging ever closer to full employment, and which is about to recapture its position as the world's leading exporter of manufactured goods from the Chinese. But the Germans say they've had enough: no more underwriting of European integration, no more paying for this and that, and certainly no more bailing out the Greeks.What is truly strange, however, is the brevity of Germany's collective memory. For during much of the 20th century, the situation was radically different: after the first world war and again after the second world war, Germany was the world's largest debtor, and in both cases owed its economic recovery to large-scale debt relief.Germany's interwar debt crisis started almost exactly 80 years ago, in the last days of June 1931. What had triggered it was Germany's aggressive borrowing in the late 1920s to pay reparations out of credit. A credit bubble resulted, and when it burst in 1931, it brought down reparations, the gold standard and, not least, Weimar democracy.Having footed the resulting massive bill, after the second world war the Americans imposed the London debt agreement of 1953 on their allies, an exercise in debt forgiveness to Germany on the most generous terms. West Germany's economic miracle, the stability of the deutschmark and the favourable state of its public finances were all owed to this massive haircut. But it put Germany's creditors at a disadvantage, leaving it to them to cope with the financial aftermath of the German occupation.Indeed, the London debt agreement deferred settlement of the reparations question \u2013 including the repayment of war debts and contributions imposed by Germany during the war \u2013 to a conference to be held after unification. This conference never took place: since 1990, the Germans have steadfastly refused to reopen this can of worms. Such compensation as has been paid, mostly to forced workers, was channelled through NGOs to avoid creating precedents. Only one country has challenged this openly and tried to obtain compensation in court: Greece.It may or may not have been wise to put the issue of reparations and other unsettled claims on Germany to rest after 1990. Back then, the Germans argued that any plausible bill would exceed the country's resources, and that continued financial co-operation in Europe instead would be infinitely more preferable. They may have had a point. But now is the time for Germany to deliver on the promise, act wisely and keep the bull away from the china shop.", "tags": ["Germany", "Greece", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Second world war", "Europe", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Germany owes Greece a debt | Albrecht Ritschl"},{"date": "2011-06-21T11:24:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "John le Carr\u00e9 might have withdrawn from the running for the Man Booker International prize because he \"doesn't compete for literary awards\", but the thriller author has nonetheless accepted a medal honouring him for his contribution to \"the development of coalescence, peace and creativity in Europe\".Le Carr\u00e9 has been named as one of this year's recipients of Germany's Goethe Medal, which goes to individuals who \"have performed outstanding service for the German language and international cultural dialogue\". This \"master of the political and psychological crime novel\", according to the Goethe Institut, \"condensed Germany's difficult role during the era of the cold war\" in his books, and \"vividly brings to life the global fields of conflict\".An official decoration of the Federal Republic of Germany, first awarded in 1955, the Goethe Medal has been won in the past by Hungarian-Jewish Nobel laureate Imre Kert\u00e9sz, conductor Daniel Barenboim, film director Billy Wilder and publisher Helen Wolff.\"Fifty years after the Berlin Wall was built, 20 years after the end of the Soviet Union and 10 years after the terrorist attacks of 11 September \u2013 there could be no better moment than this to pay tribute to this extraordinary achievement of John le Carr\u00e9 with the Goethe Medal,\" said the Goethe Institut. \"Viewing language and knowledge of a country as a prerequisite for penetrating world history and understanding ideologies, religions and peoples \u2013 these are the aspects that characterise the life's work of John le Carr\u00e9 ... His novels, whose themes revolve around the contrasts between east and west and the cold war, captivate the reader with their painstaking psychological depiction of the characters and their wealth of historical details \u2013 Le Carr\u00e9 broke with stereotypical viewpoints and criticised the betrayal of western ideals.\"But the author's political involvement goes beyond his writing, the organisation added: \"he repeatedly adopts a public and critical stance on the politics of the West, especially the British-American anti-terror coalition in the wake of the attacks of 11 September\".Le Carr\u00e9 is being recognised for his life's work, the Goethe Institut said, calling him \"Great Britain's most famous German speaker\" and adding that he \"has always been convinced that language learning is the key to understanding foreign cultures\". The English author left school at 16 to study modern languages in Switzerland \u2013 \"determined to embrace the German soul\", he said last year \u2013 deciding in 1949 that Germany was \"worth examining\". From 1959, he worked in Bonn at the British Embassy, and as an agent for the British secret service.Speaking at the Think German conference last year, Le Carr\u00e9 said that for most of his \"conscious childhood Germany had been the rogue elephant in the drawing room. Germans were murderous fellows. They had bombed one of my schools (which I did not entirely take amiss); they had bombed my grandparents' tennis court, which was very serious, and I was terrified of them. But in my rebellious adolescent state, a country that had been so thoroughly bad was also by definition worth examining. Also, one of the few things I had enjoyed about my schooling had been the German language, with which my tongue had formed a natural, friendly relationship.\"The Goethe Institut will award the medal to the author on 28 August in Weimar, when French theatre director Ariane Mnouchkine and Polish intellectual Adam Michnik will also be honoured.", "tags": ["John le Carr\u00e9", "Books", "Thrillers", "Fiction", "Culture"], "title": "Germany honours Le Carr\u00e9 with Goethe Medal"},{"date": "2011-06-17T17:17:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has sued for peace with the European Central Bank (ECB), following weeks of feuding over how to rescue Greece from the devastating debt crisis threatening the future of the euro single currency.Merkel announced on Friday that the decisions on a new three-year bailout package for Greece, tipped to run to \u20ac120bn (\u00a3106bn), would need to be agreed with the ECB.At a Berlin summit with the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, Merkel softened her terms for the Greek bailout, urged a quick decision, stressed that any participation by private creditors in the rescue should be voluntary, and insisted that a new package with Greece would be agreed together with the ECB.Her climbdown was welcomed by the financial markets, as the prospect of Greece suffering a catastrophic disorderly default receded. The euro rallied strongly, gaining more than one cent against the dollar. Europe's major stock markets also closed higher as traders took a more positive view of the Greek situation.The German media, though, promptly predicted that Merkel's olive branch could cost her politically at home.\"For the German government, this is a remarkable shift,\" said the liberal Sueddeutsche Zeitung. \"The chancellor has backed off from a central German demand,\" said the conservative Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.In a research note, JP Morgan said that Berlin seemed to be dropping its insistence on a bond swap by Greece's private creditors, the central factor that the ECB feared would cause the country to be declared in sovereign default.The Berlin summit came at the end of a week of intense political and market turbulence, with riots on the streets of Athens, a Greek government on the brink of collapse, and bad-tempered disarray among EU leaders. And despite the apparent progress, it remains to be seen how the second Greek bailout in a year will be structured.Sarkozy has been on the ECB side of the argument, and characteristically he claimed a breakthrough in Berlin, saying that France and Germany were united on all the essential points on Greece.Merkel has become increasingly isolated in the last fortnight over Germany's insistence that Greece's private creditors \u2013 the banks, pension funds and insurance companies holding much of the insolvent country's \u20ac340bn of debt \u2013 have to take \"haircuts\" or sizeable losses on their investments as part of this second deal to rescue Greece.The Germans wanted the creditors to swap maturing Greek bonds for new seven-year paper bonds on a scale that would be \"quantifiable and substantial.\"The ECB, supported by the European Commission, France and Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, head of the group of 17 eurozone countries, had warned that Berlin's policy could trigger calamity. The ratings agencies would declare Greece in default, bringing down the Greek banks and unleashing financial failure across the European banking sector.The ECB recommended a rollover of Greek debt, with the banks pledging to buy new Greek paper as current loans are repaid, avoiding a \"credit event\" or a Greek default. It now seems that this option will prevail, and a deal will be reached much more quickly following Merkel's concessions.She emphasised that any involvement by private creditors would be \"explicitly voluntary\".A German parliament resolution last week underpinning her negotiating mandate in the EU stipulated that the German government could only agree to a new bailout \"if an appropriate involvement of private creditors is included\".The Germans hoped this latter would amount to one quarter of the slated \u20ac120bn, but the contribution could now be merely symbolic. As she has consistently done throughout the 18-month crisis, Merkel had been playing for time, initially hoping to put off a new bailout until September. After the summit in Berlin, she said: \"It's not about September. It's about the quickest possible solution.\"Finance ministers from the eurozone and the EU meet in Luxembourg on Sunday and on Monday, and could now hammer out a bailout deal to be blessed by a European summit on Thursday.Greece became the first eurozone country to require a bailout in May last year when the Europeans put together a \u20ac110bn package. That has failed amid escalating turmoil in Greece and growing resistance to the swingeing austerity programmes that were the price for the rescue.In a move offering further potential turmoil for the financial markets, the credit ratings agency Moody's said that it may cut Italy's sovereign credit rating from AA2, citing challenges ahead for economic growth due to structural weaknesses and a likely rise in interest rates. visit Luxembourg on Monday for talks with EU leaders who are anxious that the entire rescue scenario could still unravel because of his inability to deliver on a radical privatisation programme, spending cuts, and tax increases.Merkel's remarks came as the IMF warned that debt-ridden European countries were \"playing with fire\" unless they took immediate steps to reduce their budget deficits.The IMF, in its regular assessment of global economic prospects, said bigger threats to growth had emerged since its previous report in April, citing the eurozone debt crisis and signs of overheating in emerging market economies.The IMF also revised downwards its forecast for US growth, estimating GDP would grow a tepid 2.5% this year and 2.7% in 2012 compared with an expected 2.8% and 2.9% growth, respectively, two months ago.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Economics", "Global economy", "Greece", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union"], "title": "Germany retreats from battle over Greek bailout"},{"date": "2011-06-17T12:08:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has admitted defeat over Germany's plan to force private banks to contribute funds to a new bailout package designed to rescue the Greek economy.After a meeting with the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, in Berlin on Thursday, the German chancellor said they had agreed that any contribution from private creditors to the package would have to be voluntary.\"We want the participation of private creditors on a voluntary basis,\" said Merkel, stressing that there was no legal way in which banks could be forced to play along.Sarkozy welcomed Germany's change of position, describing it as \"a breakthrough\".Merkel and Sarkozy both declined to set a date for the Greek deal to be finalised. But Sarkozy indicated that time was running out. \"We want a quick fix \u2026 there is no time to waste,\" he said.The summit was well received by financial markets, which have fallen sharply in recent days as investors feared that Greece would suffer a disorderly default.In London the FTSE 100 index erased early losses, and the euro strengthened against other major currencies. Greek government bonds also staged a small recovery. The yield, or interest rate, on the two-year Greek bond dropped to 28.6%, from over 30% early on Friday.Merkel's admission was a significant climbdown from her earlier position. Berlin had lobbied noisily for the compulsory participation in a new Greek bailout of private lenders, many of whom stand to lose heavily if Greece defaults on its \u20ac300bn (\u00a3265bn) debts.Last year's first Greek bailout, part-funded by European taxpayers, was hugely unpopular in Germany, and Merkel was keen to send a message to voters that not just they, but also the banks, would be paying this time around.Earlier this month European Union finance ministers were said to be considering a plan in which private creditors possessing Greek state bonds would be asked to cover \u20ac20bn \u2013 \u20ac35bn of the costs .As Europe's paymaster, Germany had called for Greece's private creditors to swap their bonds for new ones with maturities that are seven years longer, but encountered fierce resistance to those plans from France, the European central bank and European commission. France in particular was adamant that trying to force private creditors into any Greek deal would be dangerous for the markets.On Thursday the head of the eurozone, Jean-Claude Juncker, said that imposing losses on investors could trigger a European version of the Lehman Brothers bank collapse \u2013 a so-called \"credit event\". \"It's a really ugly situation. The [German] idea is dangerous. It could provoke the gravest risk, that all three rating agencies declare a credit event and then there are big contagion risks for other countries,\" he said.Merkel's meeting with Sarkozy on Friday morning in Berlin was the first face-to-face meeting between the two leaders in seven very rocky months in Franco-German relations. On Wednesday the French ambassador to Germany, Maurice Gourdault-Montagne, told a select group of German journalists that Berlin pays too little attention to its ties with Paris.The ambassador suggested Merkel did not give Sarkozky enough face time, pointing out that the last chancellor, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der, agreed to more one-on-one meetings with his French counterpart when he was in power.But at Thursday's press conference at the chancellery, Sarkozy heralded a \"major breakthrough\" with \"our German friends\". In three hours of talks, he and Merkel had at least agreed that there ideally should be some involvement on the private sector in the Greece bailout, he said.The deal was based on four principles: voluntary participation, speed, no payment default and agreement with the European central bank. Both leaders also stressed that Greece had to comply with its obligations.The duo were keen to reach a consensus ahead of next week's EU summit in Brussels, which will see European leaders try to hammer out a Greek deal.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "World news", "Euro", "Currencies", "Business", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "Germany", "France", "Angela Merkel", "Nicolas Sarkozy"], "title": "Germany climbs down over Greece bailout demands"},{"date": "2011-06-13T17:44:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": " A small Muslim community in northern Germany is pioneering renewable energy sources by planning to build a mosque with wind turbines in its minarets.The \u20ac2.5m (\u00a32.2m) project would see the mosque in Norderstedt, near Hamburg, become one of the first to turn the minaret, the place from which the muezzin called the faithful to prayer, into a wind-fuelled power source.The eco-friendly building is the brainchild of the Hamburg architect Selcuk \u00dcnyilmaz, who has long incorporated energy efficiency into his work. \"I thought about how we could give sacral architecture an ecological focus,\" he said. \"My design combines the modern with the traditional, so I wanted to give the minarets a contemporary function.\"The wind turbines will be housed in two 22-metre-high minarets and \u00dcnyilmaz plans to install a pair of 1.5-metre glass rotor blades in each tower. At certain times of the day light will be beamed at the blades to create a kind of light show.Until now the 200-strong congregation, part of the Turkish-Islamic Union for Religious Affairs, has made do with a 100-year-old building ill-equipped to house a religious community. But last month local authorities approved plans for the project, which will measure about 1,300 sq metres and comprise two parts, the mosque and a larger building containing shops, travel agents, a cafe, hairdresser and offices.\"We want to create a meeting place for people from all religions and nationalities,\" Ugur S\u00fctc\u00fc, the chairman of the Norderstedt congregation, told the Hamburger Abendblatt newspaper. \"There will be advisory services on offer, as well as social, cultural and sporting activities.\"In order to persuade some of the more sceptical members of the congregation of the merits of his the design, \u00dcnyilmaz looked for other mosques with similar wind turbines. But he could not find any other examples that had already been built.The German mosque will not be the first of its kind, however, as the Islamic missionary group Tablighi Jamaat is also planning to build an environmentally friendly mosque with wind turbines in its minarets in time for the London 2012 Olympics.\u00dcnyilmaz's scheme has come at a fortuitous time. Germany has approved a 2022 exit from nuclear energy and there is pressure to make up the shortfall by boosting the renewable energy sector.The community in Norderstedt might be in tune with the energy zeitgeist but is does not yet have funds for the project. However this is not something S\u00fctc\u00fc is too worried about. \"We are confident that we can raise the money,\" he said.The coastal town is perfectly situated for wind energy production, and the minarets will help cover the building's overheads, providing about a third of its energy. \u00dcnyilmaz said that was one of the reasons he opted for turbines instead of solar panels, which would not produce electricity at night. \"We are in the north and I don't think there's a day here that isn't windy,\" he said.", "tags": ["Germany", "Wind power", "Renewable energy", "Islam", "Energy", "Architecture", "Religion", "World news", "Europe", "Environment", "Art and design"], "title": "Eco-friendly mosque planned for Germany"},{"date": "2011-06-21T15:36:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Germans are not amused these days. Look everywhere from tabloids to the blogosphere, and it seems that the public mood has reached boiling point. Loth to shoulder another national debt increase and finance another bailout, the Germans have started questioning everything from the wisdom of supporting Greece to the common euro currency, or indeed the merits of the European integration project altogether. This might be strange for a country that is nudging ever closer to full employment, and which is about to recapture its position as the world's leading exporter of manufactured goods from the Chinese. But the Germans say they've had enough: no more underwriting of European integration, no more paying for this and that, and certainly no more bailing out the Greeks.What is truly strange, however, is the brevity of Germany's collective memory. For during much of the 20th century, the situation was radically different: after the first world war and again after the second world war, Germany was the world's largest debtor, and in both cases owed its economic recovery to large-scale debt relief.Germany's interwar debt crisis started almost exactly 80 years ago, in the last days of June 1931. What had triggered it was Germany's aggressive borrowing in the late 1920s to pay reparations out of credit. A credit bubble resulted, and when it burst in 1931, it brought down reparations, the gold standard and, not least, Weimar democracy.Having footed the resulting massive bill, after the second world war the Americans imposed the London debt agreement of 1953 on their allies, an exercise in debt forgiveness to Germany on the most generous terms. West Germany's economic miracle, the stability of the deutschmark and the favourable state of its public finances were all owed to this massive haircut. But it put Germany's creditors at a disadvantage, leaving it to them to cope with the financial aftermath of the German occupation.Indeed, the London debt agreement deferred settlement of the reparations question \u2013 including the repayment of war debts and contributions imposed by Germany during the war \u2013 to a conference to be held after unification. This conference never took place: since 1990, the Germans have steadfastly refused to reopen this can of worms. Such compensation as has been paid, mostly to forced workers, was channelled through NGOs to avoid creating precedents. Only one country has challenged this openly and tried to obtain compensation in court: Greece.It may or may not have been wise to put the issue of reparations and other unsettled claims on Germany to rest after 1990. Back then, the Germans argued that any plausible bill would exceed the country's resources, and that continued financial co-operation in Europe instead would be infinitely more preferable. They may have had a point. But now is the time for Germany to deliver on the promise, act wisely and keep the bull away from the china shop.", "tags": ["Germany", "Greece", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Second world war", "Europe", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Germany owes Greece a debt | Albrecht Ritschl"},{"date": "2011-06-21T11:24:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "John le Carr\u00e9 might have withdrawn from the running for the Man Booker International prize because he \"doesn't compete for literary awards\", but the thriller author has nonetheless accepted a medal honouring him for his contribution to \"the development of coalescence, peace and creativity in Europe\".Le Carr\u00e9 has been named as one of this year's recipients of Germany's Goethe Medal, which goes to individuals who \"have performed outstanding service for the German language and international cultural dialogue\". This \"master of the political and psychological crime novel\", according to the Goethe Institut, \"condensed Germany's difficult role during the era of the cold war\" in his books, and \"vividly brings to life the global fields of conflict\".An official decoration of the Federal Republic of Germany, first awarded in 1955, the Goethe Medal has been won in the past by Hungarian-Jewish Nobel laureate Imre Kert\u00e9sz, conductor Daniel Barenboim, film director Billy Wilder and publisher Helen Wolff.\"Fifty years after the Berlin Wall was built, 20 years after the end of the Soviet Union and 10 years after the terrorist attacks of 11 September \u2013 there could be no better moment than this to pay tribute to this extraordinary achievement of John le Carr\u00e9 with the Goethe Medal,\" said the Goethe Institut. \"Viewing language and knowledge of a country as a prerequisite for penetrating world history and understanding ideologies, religions and peoples \u2013 these are the aspects that characterise the life's work of John le Carr\u00e9 ... His novels, whose themes revolve around the contrasts between east and west and the cold war, captivate the reader with their painstaking psychological depiction of the characters and their wealth of historical details \u2013 Le Carr\u00e9 broke with stereotypical viewpoints and criticised the betrayal of western ideals.\"But the author's political involvement goes beyond his writing, the organisation added: \"he repeatedly adopts a public and critical stance on the politics of the West, especially the British-American anti-terror coalition in the wake of the attacks of 11 September\".Le Carr\u00e9 is being recognised for his life's work, the Goethe Institut said, calling him \"Great Britain's most famous German speaker\" and adding that he \"has always been convinced that language learning is the key to understanding foreign cultures\". The English author left school at 16 to study modern languages in Switzerland \u2013 \"determined to embrace the German soul\", he said last year \u2013 deciding in 1949 that Germany was \"worth examining\". From 1959, he worked in Bonn at the British Embassy, and as an agent for the British secret service.Speaking at the Think German conference last year, Le Carr\u00e9 said that for most of his \"conscious childhood Germany had been the rogue elephant in the drawing room. Germans were murderous fellows. They had bombed one of my schools (which I did not entirely take amiss); they had bombed my grandparents' tennis court, which was very serious, and I was terrified of them. But in my rebellious adolescent state, a country that had been so thoroughly bad was also by definition worth examining. Also, one of the few things I had enjoyed about my schooling had been the German language, with which my tongue had formed a natural, friendly relationship.\"The Goethe Institut will award the medal to the author on 28 August in Weimar, when French theatre director Ariane Mnouchkine and Polish intellectual Adam Michnik will also be honoured.", "tags": ["John le Carr\u00e9", "Books", "Thrillers", "Fiction", "Culture"], "title": "Germany honours Le Carr\u00e9 with Goethe Medal"},{"date": "2011-06-17T17:17:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has sued for peace with the European Central Bank (ECB), following weeks of feuding over how to rescue Greece from the devastating debt crisis threatening the future of the euro single currency.Merkel announced on Friday that the decisions on a new three-year bailout package for Greece, tipped to run to \u20ac120bn (\u00a3106bn), would need to be agreed with the ECB.At a Berlin summit with the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, Merkel softened her terms for the Greek bailout, urged a quick decision, stressed that any participation by private creditors in the rescue should be voluntary, and insisted that a new package with Greece would be agreed together with the ECB.Her climbdown was welcomed by the financial markets, as the prospect of Greece suffering a catastrophic disorderly default receded. The euro rallied strongly, gaining more than one cent against the dollar. Europe's major stock markets also closed higher as traders took a more positive view of the Greek situation.The German media, though, promptly predicted that Merkel's olive branch could cost her politically at home.\"For the German government, this is a remarkable shift,\" said the liberal Sueddeutsche Zeitung. \"The chancellor has backed off from a central German demand,\" said the conservative Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.In a research note, JP Morgan said that Berlin seemed to be dropping its insistence on a bond swap by Greece's private creditors, the central factor that the ECB feared would cause the country to be declared in sovereign default.The Berlin summit came at the end of a week of intense political and market turbulence, with riots on the streets of Athens, a Greek government on the brink of collapse, and bad-tempered disarray among EU leaders. And despite the apparent progress, it remains to be seen how the second Greek bailout in a year will be structured.Sarkozy has been on the ECB side of the argument, and characteristically he claimed a breakthrough in Berlin, saying that France and Germany were united on all the essential points on Greece.Merkel has become increasingly isolated in the last fortnight over Germany's insistence that Greece's private creditors \u2013 the banks, pension funds and insurance companies holding much of the insolvent country's \u20ac340bn of debt \u2013 have to take \"haircuts\" or sizeable losses on their investments as part of this second deal to rescue Greece.The Germans wanted the creditors to swap maturing Greek bonds for new seven-year paper bonds on a scale that would be \"quantifiable and substantial.\"The ECB, supported by the European Commission, France and Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, head of the group of 17 eurozone countries, had warned that Berlin's policy could trigger calamity. The ratings agencies would declare Greece in default, bringing down the Greek banks and unleashing financial failure across the European banking sector.The ECB recommended a rollover of Greek debt, with the banks pledging to buy new Greek paper as current loans are repaid, avoiding a \"credit event\" or a Greek default. It now seems that this option will prevail, and a deal will be reached much more quickly following Merkel's concessions.She emphasised that any involvement by private creditors would be \"explicitly voluntary\".A German parliament resolution last week underpinning her negotiating mandate in the EU stipulated that the German government could only agree to a new bailout \"if an appropriate involvement of private creditors is included\".The Germans hoped this latter would amount to one quarter of the slated \u20ac120bn, but the contribution could now be merely symbolic. As she has consistently done throughout the 18-month crisis, Merkel had been playing for time, initially hoping to put off a new bailout until September. After the summit in Berlin, she said: \"It's not about September. It's about the quickest possible solution.\"Finance ministers from the eurozone and the EU meet in Luxembourg on Sunday and on Monday, and could now hammer out a bailout deal to be blessed by a European summit on Thursday.Greece became the first eurozone country to require a bailout in May last year when the Europeans put together a \u20ac110bn package. That has failed amid escalating turmoil in Greece and growing resistance to the swingeing austerity programmes that were the price for the rescue.In a move offering further potential turmoil for the financial markets, the credit ratings agency Moody's said that it may cut Italy's sovereign credit rating from AA2, citing challenges ahead for economic growth due to structural weaknesses and a likely rise in interest rates. visit Luxembourg on Monday for talks with EU leaders who are anxious that the entire rescue scenario could still unravel because of his inability to deliver on a radical privatisation programme, spending cuts, and tax increases.Merkel's remarks came as the IMF warned that debt-ridden European countries were \"playing with fire\" unless they took immediate steps to reduce their budget deficits.The IMF, in its regular assessment of global economic prospects, said bigger threats to growth had emerged since its previous report in April, citing the eurozone debt crisis and signs of overheating in emerging market economies.The IMF also revised downwards its forecast for US growth, estimating GDP would grow a tepid 2.5% this year and 2.7% in 2012 compared with an expected 2.8% and 2.9% growth, respectively, two months ago.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Economics", "Global economy", "Greece", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union"], "title": "Germany retreats from battle over Greek bailout"},{"date": "2011-06-17T12:08:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has admitted defeat over Germany's plan to force private banks to contribute funds to a new bailout package designed to rescue the Greek economy.After a meeting with the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, in Berlin on Thursday, the German chancellor said they had agreed that any contribution from private creditors to the package would have to be voluntary.\"We want the participation of private creditors on a voluntary basis,\" said Merkel, stressing that there was no legal way in which banks could be forced to play along.Sarkozy welcomed Germany's change of position, describing it as \"a breakthrough\".Merkel and Sarkozy both declined to set a date for the Greek deal to be finalised. But Sarkozy indicated that time was running out. \"We want a quick fix \u2026 there is no time to waste,\" he said.The summit was well received by financial markets, which have fallen sharply in recent days as investors feared that Greece would suffer a disorderly default.In London the FTSE 100 index erased early losses, and the euro strengthened against other major currencies. Greek government bonds also staged a small recovery. The yield, or interest rate, on the two-year Greek bond dropped to 28.6%, from over 30% early on Friday.Merkel's admission was a significant climbdown from her earlier position. Berlin had lobbied noisily for the compulsory participation in a new Greek bailout of private lenders, many of whom stand to lose heavily if Greece defaults on its \u20ac300bn (\u00a3265bn) debts.Last year's first Greek bailout, part-funded by European taxpayers, was hugely unpopular in Germany, and Merkel was keen to send a message to voters that not just they, but also the banks, would be paying this time around.Earlier this month European Union finance ministers were said to be considering a plan in which private creditors possessing Greek state bonds would be asked to cover \u20ac20bn \u2013 \u20ac35bn of the costs .As Europe's paymaster, Germany had called for Greece's private creditors to swap their bonds for new ones with maturities that are seven years longer, but encountered fierce resistance to those plans from France, the European central bank and European commission. France in particular was adamant that trying to force private creditors into any Greek deal would be dangerous for the markets.On Thursday the head of the eurozone, Jean-Claude Juncker, said that imposing losses on investors could trigger a European version of the Lehman Brothers bank collapse \u2013 a so-called \"credit event\". \"It's a really ugly situation. The [German] idea is dangerous. It could provoke the gravest risk, that all three rating agencies declare a credit event and then there are big contagion risks for other countries,\" he said.Merkel's meeting with Sarkozy on Friday morning in Berlin was the first face-to-face meeting between the two leaders in seven very rocky months in Franco-German relations. On Wednesday the French ambassador to Germany, Maurice Gourdault-Montagne, told a select group of German journalists that Berlin pays too little attention to its ties with Paris.The ambassador suggested Merkel did not give Sarkozky enough face time, pointing out that the last chancellor, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der, agreed to more one-on-one meetings with his French counterpart when he was in power.But at Thursday's press conference at the chancellery, Sarkozy heralded a \"major breakthrough\" with \"our German friends\". In three hours of talks, he and Merkel had at least agreed that there ideally should be some involvement on the private sector in the Greece bailout, he said.The deal was based on four principles: voluntary participation, speed, no payment default and agreement with the European central bank. Both leaders also stressed that Greece had to comply with its obligations.The duo were keen to reach a consensus ahead of next week's EU summit in Brussels, which will see European leaders try to hammer out a Greek deal.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "World news", "Euro", "Currencies", "Business", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "Germany", "France", "Angela Merkel", "Nicolas Sarkozy"], "title": "Germany climbs down over Greece bailout demands"},{"date": "2011-06-13T17:44:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": " A small Muslim community in northern Germany is pioneering renewable energy sources by planning to build a mosque with wind turbines in its minarets.The \u20ac2.5m (\u00a32.2m) project would see the mosque in Norderstedt, near Hamburg, become one of the first to turn the minaret, the place from which the muezzin called the faithful to prayer, into a wind-fuelled power source.The eco-friendly building is the brainchild of the Hamburg architect Selcuk \u00dcnyilmaz, who has long incorporated energy efficiency into his work. \"I thought about how we could give sacral architecture an ecological focus,\" he said. \"My design combines the modern with the traditional, so I wanted to give the minarets a contemporary function.\"The wind turbines will be housed in two 22-metre-high minarets and \u00dcnyilmaz plans to install a pair of 1.5-metre glass rotor blades in each tower. At certain times of the day light will be beamed at the blades to create a kind of light show.Until now the 200-strong congregation, part of the Turkish-Islamic Union for Religious Affairs, has made do with a 100-year-old building ill-equipped to house a religious community. But last month local authorities approved plans for the project, which will measure about 1,300 sq metres and comprise two parts, the mosque and a larger building containing shops, travel agents, a cafe, hairdresser and offices.\"We want to create a meeting place for people from all religions and nationalities,\" Ugur S\u00fctc\u00fc, the chairman of the Norderstedt congregation, told the Hamburger Abendblatt newspaper. \"There will be advisory services on offer, as well as social, cultural and sporting activities.\"In order to persuade some of the more sceptical members of the congregation of the merits of his the design, \u00dcnyilmaz looked for other mosques with similar wind turbines. But he could not find any other examples that had already been built.The German mosque will not be the first of its kind, however, as the Islamic missionary group Tablighi Jamaat is also planning to build an environmentally friendly mosque with wind turbines in its minarets in time for the London 2012 Olympics.\u00dcnyilmaz's scheme has come at a fortuitous time. Germany has approved a 2022 exit from nuclear energy and there is pressure to make up the shortfall by boosting the renewable energy sector.The community in Norderstedt might be in tune with the energy zeitgeist but is does not yet have funds for the project. However this is not something S\u00fctc\u00fc is too worried about. \"We are confident that we can raise the money,\" he said.The coastal town is perfectly situated for wind energy production, and the minarets will help cover the building's overheads, providing about a third of its energy. \u00dcnyilmaz said that was one of the reasons he opted for turbines instead of solar panels, which would not produce electricity at night. \"We are in the north and I don't think there's a day here that isn't windy,\" he said.", "tags": ["Germany", "Wind power", "Renewable energy", "Islam", "Energy", "Architecture", "Religion", "World news", "Europe", "Environment", "Art and design"], "title": "Eco-friendly mosque planned for Germany"},{"date": "2011-05-30T18:18:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has committed to shutting down all of the country's nuclear reactors by 2022, a task said by one minister to be as mammoth as the project to reunite East and West Germany in 1990.Monday's announcement, prompted by Japan's nuclear disaster, will make Germany the first major industrialised nation to go nuclear-free in decades. It gives the country just over 10 years to find alternative sources for 23% of its energy.The move, hammered out at a mammoth 14-hour overnight sitting at the Kanzleramt, came amid mass nationwide protests against nuclear power and at a low point for the chancellor's Christian Democratic party (CDU), support for which has crumbled at the ballot box in five regional elections this year.Although the proposal was welcomed among the general population, who have long been opposed to nuclear power, it was a move derided by one of Merkel's own MPs as \"knee-jerk politics\".The plan is to keep shut eight reactors which were suspended in March in the immediate aftermath of the Fukushima disaster, and to close the rest by 2022.The phase-out must be ratified in parliament and is likely to face strong opposition from utility companies. On Monday a spokesman for the energy giant RWE said that \"all legal options\" were on the table.Last week, grid operators warned the phase-out could result in winter blackouts \u2013 a prospect Merkel scoffed at . She insisted the decision would not lead to Germany simply importing nuclear power.\"We will generate our own electricity from other sources,\" the chancellor told a press conference in Berlin. She said the plans would give Germany a chance to be a \"trailblazer\" for renewable energy, suggesting it could eventually earn, rather than cost, the country money.Energy firms warned that the decision \u2013 a total policy reversal \u2013 would require significant investment in energy infrastructure. Philipp R\u00f6sler, new head of the FDP party, which rules in coalition with the CDU, agreed, likening the task ahead to that which faced Germany in 1990 after reunification. A study in 2009 showed that \u20ac1.3 trillion (\u00a31.1tn) had been transferred from the West to rebuild the East.This comparison was also made in an editorial by the left-leaning Tageszeitung newspaper on Monday, which said Merkel's decision was \"historic\" and \"a moment like the fall of the Berlin Wall\".The government's vocabulary seemed to consciously echo the reunification process, with Merkel heralding an \"Energie-Wende\" \u2013 \"die Wende\" is the word for change which became shorthand for the fall of communism and reunification.Die Welt, a conservative daily, said the policy U-turn demonstrated a \"creeping rejection of the economic model which has transformed Germany into one of the richest countries in the world\".The French poured scorn on Germany's decision. \"Germany will be even more dependent on fossil fuels and imports and its electricity will be more expensive and polluting,\" said the French industry minister, \u00c9ric Besson. German households pay twice as much for power than homes in France, where 80% of electricity comes from atomic plants, he said.Germany last year was a net exporter of power to France, according to data from the French grid operator, RTE. This trend was reversed last month after the accident at Fukushima and Merkel's decision to halt Germany's oldest reactors.\"Germany's energy policy will only work if there are improvements at the same time,\" the EU energy commissioner, G\u00fcnther Oettinger, said on Monday.He said there was a need for better grid infrastructure, storage capacity and forward planning as well as a more pronounced rise in renewable supply.Germany plans to cut electricity usage by 10% and double the share of renewable energy to 25% by 2020.Merkel first mooted an accelerated exit from nuclear power within days of the Fukushima meltdown, ordering a three-month \"moratorium\" during which nuclear power could be debated.It was a remarkable U-turn. In September 2010, she had committed to extending the lives of Germany's 17 nuclear plants.Many of her party are unhappy with her handling of the situation.\"Knee-jerk politics like the reaction to Fukushima does not pay dividends,\" said Mike Mohring, the head of the CDU faction in the Thuringian state parliament, last week.Among other G8 nations, only Italy has abandoned nuclear power.\u2022 This article was amended on 31 May 2011. The original said that the 14-hour overnight sitting was held at the Bundestag. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "Nuclear waste", "Japan disaster"], "title": "Germany to shut all nuclear reactors"},{"date": "2011-06-21T15:36:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Germans are not amused these days. Look everywhere from tabloids to the blogosphere, and it seems that the public mood has reached boiling point. Loth to shoulder another national debt increase and finance another bailout, the Germans have started questioning everything from the wisdom of supporting Greece to the common euro currency, or indeed the merits of the European integration project altogether. This might be strange for a country that is nudging ever closer to full employment, and which is about to recapture its position as the world's leading exporter of manufactured goods from the Chinese. But the Germans say they've had enough: no more underwriting of European integration, no more paying for this and that, and certainly no more bailing out the Greeks.What is truly strange, however, is the brevity of Germany's collective memory. For during much of the 20th century, the situation was radically different: after the first world war and again after the second world war, Germany was the world's largest debtor, and in both cases owed its economic recovery to large-scale debt relief.Germany's interwar debt crisis started almost exactly 80 years ago, in the last days of June 1931. What had triggered it was Germany's aggressive borrowing in the late 1920s to pay reparations out of credit. A credit bubble resulted, and when it burst in 1931, it brought down reparations, the gold standard and, not least, Weimar democracy.Having footed the resulting massive bill, after the second world war the Americans imposed the London debt agreement of 1953 on their allies, an exercise in debt forgiveness to Germany on the most generous terms. West Germany's economic miracle, the stability of the deutschmark and the favourable state of its public finances were all owed to this massive haircut. But it put Germany's creditors at a disadvantage, leaving it to them to cope with the financial aftermath of the German occupation.Indeed, the London debt agreement deferred settlement of the reparations question \u2013 including the repayment of war debts and contributions imposed by Germany during the war \u2013 to a conference to be held after unification. This conference never took place: since 1990, the Germans have steadfastly refused to reopen this can of worms. Such compensation as has been paid, mostly to forced workers, was channelled through NGOs to avoid creating precedents. Only one country has challenged this openly and tried to obtain compensation in court: Greece.It may or may not have been wise to put the issue of reparations and other unsettled claims on Germany to rest after 1990. Back then, the Germans argued that any plausible bill would exceed the country's resources, and that continued financial co-operation in Europe instead would be infinitely more preferable. They may have had a point. But now is the time for Germany to deliver on the promise, act wisely and keep the bull away from the china shop.", "tags": ["Germany", "Greece", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Second world war", "Europe", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Germany owes Greece a debt | Albrecht Ritschl"},{"date": "2011-06-21T11:24:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "John le Carr\u00e9 might have withdrawn from the running for the Man Booker International prize because he \"doesn't compete for literary awards\", but the thriller author has nonetheless accepted a medal honouring him for his contribution to \"the development of coalescence, peace and creativity in Europe\".Le Carr\u00e9 has been named as one of this year's recipients of Germany's Goethe Medal, which goes to individuals who \"have performed outstanding service for the German language and international cultural dialogue\". This \"master of the political and psychological crime novel\", according to the Goethe Institut, \"condensed Germany's difficult role during the era of the cold war\" in his books, and \"vividly brings to life the global fields of conflict\".An official decoration of the Federal Republic of Germany, first awarded in 1955, the Goethe Medal has been won in the past by Hungarian-Jewish Nobel laureate Imre Kert\u00e9sz, conductor Daniel Barenboim, film director Billy Wilder and publisher Helen Wolff.\"Fifty years after the Berlin Wall was built, 20 years after the end of the Soviet Union and 10 years after the terrorist attacks of 11 September \u2013 there could be no better moment than this to pay tribute to this extraordinary achievement of John le Carr\u00e9 with the Goethe Medal,\" said the Goethe Institut. \"Viewing language and knowledge of a country as a prerequisite for penetrating world history and understanding ideologies, religions and peoples \u2013 these are the aspects that characterise the life's work of John le Carr\u00e9 ... His novels, whose themes revolve around the contrasts between east and west and the cold war, captivate the reader with their painstaking psychological depiction of the characters and their wealth of historical details \u2013 Le Carr\u00e9 broke with stereotypical viewpoints and criticised the betrayal of western ideals.\"But the author's political involvement goes beyond his writing, the organisation added: \"he repeatedly adopts a public and critical stance on the politics of the West, especially the British-American anti-terror coalition in the wake of the attacks of 11 September\".Le Carr\u00e9 is being recognised for his life's work, the Goethe Institut said, calling him \"Great Britain's most famous German speaker\" and adding that he \"has always been convinced that language learning is the key to understanding foreign cultures\". The English author left school at 16 to study modern languages in Switzerland \u2013 \"determined to embrace the German soul\", he said last year \u2013 deciding in 1949 that Germany was \"worth examining\". From 1959, he worked in Bonn at the British Embassy, and as an agent for the British secret service.Speaking at the Think German conference last year, Le Carr\u00e9 said that for most of his \"conscious childhood Germany had been the rogue elephant in the drawing room. Germans were murderous fellows. They had bombed one of my schools (which I did not entirely take amiss); they had bombed my grandparents' tennis court, which was very serious, and I was terrified of them. But in my rebellious adolescent state, a country that had been so thoroughly bad was also by definition worth examining. Also, one of the few things I had enjoyed about my schooling had been the German language, with which my tongue had formed a natural, friendly relationship.\"The Goethe Institut will award the medal to the author on 28 August in Weimar, when French theatre director Ariane Mnouchkine and Polish intellectual Adam Michnik will also be honoured.", "tags": ["John le Carr\u00e9", "Books", "Thrillers", "Fiction", "Culture"], "title": "Germany honours Le Carr\u00e9 with Goethe Medal"},{"date": "2011-06-17T17:17:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has sued for peace with the European Central Bank (ECB), following weeks of feuding over how to rescue Greece from the devastating debt crisis threatening the future of the euro single currency.Merkel announced on Friday that the decisions on a new three-year bailout package for Greece, tipped to run to \u20ac120bn (\u00a3106bn), would need to be agreed with the ECB.At a Berlin summit with the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, Merkel softened her terms for the Greek bailout, urged a quick decision, stressed that any participation by private creditors in the rescue should be voluntary, and insisted that a new package with Greece would be agreed together with the ECB.Her climbdown was welcomed by the financial markets, as the prospect of Greece suffering a catastrophic disorderly default receded. The euro rallied strongly, gaining more than one cent against the dollar. Europe's major stock markets also closed higher as traders took a more positive view of the Greek situation.The German media, though, promptly predicted that Merkel's olive branch could cost her politically at home.\"For the German government, this is a remarkable shift,\" said the liberal Sueddeutsche Zeitung. \"The chancellor has backed off from a central German demand,\" said the conservative Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.In a research note, JP Morgan said that Berlin seemed to be dropping its insistence on a bond swap by Greece's private creditors, the central factor that the ECB feared would cause the country to be declared in sovereign default.The Berlin summit came at the end of a week of intense political and market turbulence, with riots on the streets of Athens, a Greek government on the brink of collapse, and bad-tempered disarray among EU leaders. And despite the apparent progress, it remains to be seen how the second Greek bailout in a year will be structured.Sarkozy has been on the ECB side of the argument, and characteristically he claimed a breakthrough in Berlin, saying that France and Germany were united on all the essential points on Greece.Merkel has become increasingly isolated in the last fortnight over Germany's insistence that Greece's private creditors \u2013 the banks, pension funds and insurance companies holding much of the insolvent country's \u20ac340bn of debt \u2013 have to take \"haircuts\" or sizeable losses on their investments as part of this second deal to rescue Greece.The Germans wanted the creditors to swap maturing Greek bonds for new seven-year paper bonds on a scale that would be \"quantifiable and substantial.\"The ECB, supported by the European Commission, France and Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, head of the group of 17 eurozone countries, had warned that Berlin's policy could trigger calamity. The ratings agencies would declare Greece in default, bringing down the Greek banks and unleashing financial failure across the European banking sector.The ECB recommended a rollover of Greek debt, with the banks pledging to buy new Greek paper as current loans are repaid, avoiding a \"credit event\" or a Greek default. It now seems that this option will prevail, and a deal will be reached much more quickly following Merkel's concessions.She emphasised that any involvement by private creditors would be \"explicitly voluntary\".A German parliament resolution last week underpinning her negotiating mandate in the EU stipulated that the German government could only agree to a new bailout \"if an appropriate involvement of private creditors is included\".The Germans hoped this latter would amount to one quarter of the slated \u20ac120bn, but the contribution could now be merely symbolic. As she has consistently done throughout the 18-month crisis, Merkel had been playing for time, initially hoping to put off a new bailout until September. After the summit in Berlin, she said: \"It's not about September. It's about the quickest possible solution.\"Finance ministers from the eurozone and the EU meet in Luxembourg on Sunday and on Monday, and could now hammer out a bailout deal to be blessed by a European summit on Thursday.Greece became the first eurozone country to require a bailout in May last year when the Europeans put together a \u20ac110bn package. That has failed amid escalating turmoil in Greece and growing resistance to the swingeing austerity programmes that were the price for the rescue.In a move offering further potential turmoil for the financial markets, the credit ratings agency Moody's said that it may cut Italy's sovereign credit rating from AA2, citing challenges ahead for economic growth due to structural weaknesses and a likely rise in interest rates. visit Luxembourg on Monday for talks with EU leaders who are anxious that the entire rescue scenario could still unravel because of his inability to deliver on a radical privatisation programme, spending cuts, and tax increases.Merkel's remarks came as the IMF warned that debt-ridden European countries were \"playing with fire\" unless they took immediate steps to reduce their budget deficits.The IMF, in its regular assessment of global economic prospects, said bigger threats to growth had emerged since its previous report in April, citing the eurozone debt crisis and signs of overheating in emerging market economies.The IMF also revised downwards its forecast for US growth, estimating GDP would grow a tepid 2.5% this year and 2.7% in 2012 compared with an expected 2.8% and 2.9% growth, respectively, two months ago.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Economics", "Global economy", "Greece", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union"], "title": "Germany retreats from battle over Greek bailout"},{"date": "2011-06-17T12:08:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has admitted defeat over Germany's plan to force private banks to contribute funds to a new bailout package designed to rescue the Greek economy.After a meeting with the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, in Berlin on Thursday, the German chancellor said they had agreed that any contribution from private creditors to the package would have to be voluntary.\"We want the participation of private creditors on a voluntary basis,\" said Merkel, stressing that there was no legal way in which banks could be forced to play along.Sarkozy welcomed Germany's change of position, describing it as \"a breakthrough\".Merkel and Sarkozy both declined to set a date for the Greek deal to be finalised. But Sarkozy indicated that time was running out. \"We want a quick fix \u2026 there is no time to waste,\" he said.The summit was well received by financial markets, which have fallen sharply in recent days as investors feared that Greece would suffer a disorderly default.In London the FTSE 100 index erased early losses, and the euro strengthened against other major currencies. Greek government bonds also staged a small recovery. The yield, or interest rate, on the two-year Greek bond dropped to 28.6%, from over 30% early on Friday.Merkel's admission was a significant climbdown from her earlier position. Berlin had lobbied noisily for the compulsory participation in a new Greek bailout of private lenders, many of whom stand to lose heavily if Greece defaults on its \u20ac300bn (\u00a3265bn) debts.Last year's first Greek bailout, part-funded by European taxpayers, was hugely unpopular in Germany, and Merkel was keen to send a message to voters that not just they, but also the banks, would be paying this time around.Earlier this month European Union finance ministers were said to be considering a plan in which private creditors possessing Greek state bonds would be asked to cover \u20ac20bn \u2013 \u20ac35bn of the costs .As Europe's paymaster, Germany had called for Greece's private creditors to swap their bonds for new ones with maturities that are seven years longer, but encountered fierce resistance to those plans from France, the European central bank and European commission. France in particular was adamant that trying to force private creditors into any Greek deal would be dangerous for the markets.On Thursday the head of the eurozone, Jean-Claude Juncker, said that imposing losses on investors could trigger a European version of the Lehman Brothers bank collapse \u2013 a so-called \"credit event\". \"It's a really ugly situation. The [German] idea is dangerous. It could provoke the gravest risk, that all three rating agencies declare a credit event and then there are big contagion risks for other countries,\" he said.Merkel's meeting with Sarkozy on Friday morning in Berlin was the first face-to-face meeting between the two leaders in seven very rocky months in Franco-German relations. On Wednesday the French ambassador to Germany, Maurice Gourdault-Montagne, told a select group of German journalists that Berlin pays too little attention to its ties with Paris.The ambassador suggested Merkel did not give Sarkozky enough face time, pointing out that the last chancellor, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der, agreed to more one-on-one meetings with his French counterpart when he was in power.But at Thursday's press conference at the chancellery, Sarkozy heralded a \"major breakthrough\" with \"our German friends\". In three hours of talks, he and Merkel had at least agreed that there ideally should be some involvement on the private sector in the Greece bailout, he said.The deal was based on four principles: voluntary participation, speed, no payment default and agreement with the European central bank. Both leaders also stressed that Greece had to comply with its obligations.The duo were keen to reach a consensus ahead of next week's EU summit in Brussels, which will see European leaders try to hammer out a Greek deal.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "World news", "Euro", "Currencies", "Business", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "Germany", "France", "Angela Merkel", "Nicolas Sarkozy"], "title": "Germany climbs down over Greece bailout demands"},{"date": "2011-06-13T17:44:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": " A small Muslim community in northern Germany is pioneering renewable energy sources by planning to build a mosque with wind turbines in its minarets.The \u20ac2.5m (\u00a32.2m) project would see the mosque in Norderstedt, near Hamburg, become one of the first to turn the minaret, the place from which the muezzin called the faithful to prayer, into a wind-fuelled power source.The eco-friendly building is the brainchild of the Hamburg architect Selcuk \u00dcnyilmaz, who has long incorporated energy efficiency into his work. \"I thought about how we could give sacral architecture an ecological focus,\" he said. \"My design combines the modern with the traditional, so I wanted to give the minarets a contemporary function.\"The wind turbines will be housed in two 22-metre-high minarets and \u00dcnyilmaz plans to install a pair of 1.5-metre glass rotor blades in each tower. At certain times of the day light will be beamed at the blades to create a kind of light show.Until now the 200-strong congregation, part of the Turkish-Islamic Union for Religious Affairs, has made do with a 100-year-old building ill-equipped to house a religious community. But last month local authorities approved plans for the project, which will measure about 1,300 sq metres and comprise two parts, the mosque and a larger building containing shops, travel agents, a cafe, hairdresser and offices.\"We want to create a meeting place for people from all religions and nationalities,\" Ugur S\u00fctc\u00fc, the chairman of the Norderstedt congregation, told the Hamburger Abendblatt newspaper. \"There will be advisory services on offer, as well as social, cultural and sporting activities.\"In order to persuade some of the more sceptical members of the congregation of the merits of his the design, \u00dcnyilmaz looked for other mosques with similar wind turbines. But he could not find any other examples that had already been built.The German mosque will not be the first of its kind, however, as the Islamic missionary group Tablighi Jamaat is also planning to build an environmentally friendly mosque with wind turbines in its minarets in time for the London 2012 Olympics.\u00dcnyilmaz's scheme has come at a fortuitous time. Germany has approved a 2022 exit from nuclear energy and there is pressure to make up the shortfall by boosting the renewable energy sector.The community in Norderstedt might be in tune with the energy zeitgeist but is does not yet have funds for the project. However this is not something S\u00fctc\u00fc is too worried about. \"We are confident that we can raise the money,\" he said.The coastal town is perfectly situated for wind energy production, and the minarets will help cover the building's overheads, providing about a third of its energy. \u00dcnyilmaz said that was one of the reasons he opted for turbines instead of solar panels, which would not produce electricity at night. \"We are in the north and I don't think there's a day here that isn't windy,\" he said.", "tags": ["Germany", "Wind power", "Renewable energy", "Islam", "Energy", "Architecture", "Religion", "World news", "Europe", "Environment", "Art and design"], "title": "Eco-friendly mosque planned for Germany"},{"date": "2011-05-30T18:18:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has committed to shutting down all of the country's nuclear reactors by 2022, a task said by one minister to be as mammoth as the project to reunite East and West Germany in 1990.Monday's announcement, prompted by Japan's nuclear disaster, will make Germany the first major industrialised nation to go nuclear-free in decades. It gives the country just over 10 years to find alternative sources for 23% of its energy.The move, hammered out at a mammoth 14-hour overnight sitting at the Kanzleramt, came amid mass nationwide protests against nuclear power and at a low point for the chancellor's Christian Democratic party (CDU), support for which has crumbled at the ballot box in five regional elections this year.Although the proposal was welcomed among the general population, who have long been opposed to nuclear power, it was a move derided by one of Merkel's own MPs as \"knee-jerk politics\".The plan is to keep shut eight reactors which were suspended in March in the immediate aftermath of the Fukushima disaster, and to close the rest by 2022.The phase-out must be ratified in parliament and is likely to face strong opposition from utility companies. On Monday a spokesman for the energy giant RWE said that \"all legal options\" were on the table.Last week, grid operators warned the phase-out could result in winter blackouts \u2013 a prospect Merkel scoffed at . She insisted the decision would not lead to Germany simply importing nuclear power.\"We will generate our own electricity from other sources,\" the chancellor told a press conference in Berlin. She said the plans would give Germany a chance to be a \"trailblazer\" for renewable energy, suggesting it could eventually earn, rather than cost, the country money.Energy firms warned that the decision \u2013 a total policy reversal \u2013 would require significant investment in energy infrastructure. Philipp R\u00f6sler, new head of the FDP party, which rules in coalition with the CDU, agreed, likening the task ahead to that which faced Germany in 1990 after reunification. A study in 2009 showed that \u20ac1.3 trillion (\u00a31.1tn) had been transferred from the West to rebuild the East.This comparison was also made in an editorial by the left-leaning Tageszeitung newspaper on Monday, which said Merkel's decision was \"historic\" and \"a moment like the fall of the Berlin Wall\".The government's vocabulary seemed to consciously echo the reunification process, with Merkel heralding an \"Energie-Wende\" \u2013 \"die Wende\" is the word for change which became shorthand for the fall of communism and reunification.Die Welt, a conservative daily, said the policy U-turn demonstrated a \"creeping rejection of the economic model which has transformed Germany into one of the richest countries in the world\".The French poured scorn on Germany's decision. \"Germany will be even more dependent on fossil fuels and imports and its electricity will be more expensive and polluting,\" said the French industry minister, \u00c9ric Besson. German households pay twice as much for power than homes in France, where 80% of electricity comes from atomic plants, he said.Germany last year was a net exporter of power to France, according to data from the French grid operator, RTE. This trend was reversed last month after the accident at Fukushima and Merkel's decision to halt Germany's oldest reactors.\"Germany's energy policy will only work if there are improvements at the same time,\" the EU energy commissioner, G\u00fcnther Oettinger, said on Monday.He said there was a need for better grid infrastructure, storage capacity and forward planning as well as a more pronounced rise in renewable supply.Germany plans to cut electricity usage by 10% and double the share of renewable energy to 25% by 2020.Merkel first mooted an accelerated exit from nuclear power within days of the Fukushima meltdown, ordering a three-month \"moratorium\" during which nuclear power could be debated.It was a remarkable U-turn. In September 2010, she had committed to extending the lives of Germany's 17 nuclear plants.Many of her party are unhappy with her handling of the situation.\"Knee-jerk politics like the reaction to Fukushima does not pay dividends,\" said Mike Mohring, the head of the CDU faction in the Thuringian state parliament, last week.Among other G8 nations, only Italy has abandoned nuclear power.\u2022 This article was amended on 31 May 2011. The original said that the 14-hour overnight sitting was held at the Bundestag. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "Nuclear waste", "Japan disaster"], "title": "Germany to shut all nuclear reactors"},{"date": "2011-05-24T17:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Born in London from German parents, Frederick Voigt was the Manchester Guardian correspondent in Germany from 1920 to 1933.Voigt was one of the most important of the newspaper's foreign team in the 30s, becoming famous for exposing the threat of the Nazi regime.", "tags": ["Newspapers", "National newspapers", "Germany", "Adolf Hitler"], "title": "28 March 1933: The terror in Germany"},{"date": "2011-06-21T15:36:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Germans are not amused these days. Look everywhere from tabloids to the blogosphere, and it seems that the public mood has reached boiling point. Loth to shoulder another national debt increase and finance another bailout, the Germans have started questioning everything from the wisdom of supporting Greece to the common euro currency, or indeed the merits of the European integration project altogether. This might be strange for a country that is nudging ever closer to full employment, and which is about to recapture its position as the world's leading exporter of manufactured goods from the Chinese. But the Germans say they've had enough: no more underwriting of European integration, no more paying for this and that, and certainly no more bailing out the Greeks.What is truly strange, however, is the brevity of Germany's collective memory. For during much of the 20th century, the situation was radically different: after the first world war and again after the second world war, Germany was the world's largest debtor, and in both cases owed its economic recovery to large-scale debt relief.Germany's interwar debt crisis started almost exactly 80 years ago, in the last days of June 1931. What had triggered it was Germany's aggressive borrowing in the late 1920s to pay reparations out of credit. A credit bubble resulted, and when it burst in 1931, it brought down reparations, the gold standard and, not least, Weimar democracy.Having footed the resulting massive bill, after the second world war the Americans imposed the London debt agreement of 1953 on their allies, an exercise in debt forgiveness to Germany on the most generous terms. West Germany's economic miracle, the stability of the deutschmark and the favourable state of its public finances were all owed to this massive haircut. But it put Germany's creditors at a disadvantage, leaving it to them to cope with the financial aftermath of the German occupation.Indeed, the London debt agreement deferred settlement of the reparations question \u2013 including the repayment of war debts and contributions imposed by Germany during the war \u2013 to a conference to be held after unification. This conference never took place: since 1990, the Germans have steadfastly refused to reopen this can of worms. Such compensation as has been paid, mostly to forced workers, was channelled through NGOs to avoid creating precedents. Only one country has challenged this openly and tried to obtain compensation in court: Greece.It may or may not have been wise to put the issue of reparations and other unsettled claims on Germany to rest after 1990. Back then, the Germans argued that any plausible bill would exceed the country's resources, and that continued financial co-operation in Europe instead would be infinitely more preferable. They may have had a point. But now is the time for Germany to deliver on the promise, act wisely and keep the bull away from the china shop.", "tags": ["Germany", "Greece", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Second world war", "Europe", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Germany owes Greece a debt | Albrecht Ritschl"},{"date": "2011-06-21T11:24:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "John le Carr\u00e9 might have withdrawn from the running for the Man Booker International prize because he \"doesn't compete for literary awards\", but the thriller author has nonetheless accepted a medal honouring him for his contribution to \"the development of coalescence, peace and creativity in Europe\".Le Carr\u00e9 has been named as one of this year's recipients of Germany's Goethe Medal, which goes to individuals who \"have performed outstanding service for the German language and international cultural dialogue\". This \"master of the political and psychological crime novel\", according to the Goethe Institut, \"condensed Germany's difficult role during the era of the cold war\" in his books, and \"vividly brings to life the global fields of conflict\".An official decoration of the Federal Republic of Germany, first awarded in 1955, the Goethe Medal has been won in the past by Hungarian-Jewish Nobel laureate Imre Kert\u00e9sz, conductor Daniel Barenboim, film director Billy Wilder and publisher Helen Wolff.\"Fifty years after the Berlin Wall was built, 20 years after the end of the Soviet Union and 10 years after the terrorist attacks of 11 September \u2013 there could be no better moment than this to pay tribute to this extraordinary achievement of John le Carr\u00e9 with the Goethe Medal,\" said the Goethe Institut. \"Viewing language and knowledge of a country as a prerequisite for penetrating world history and understanding ideologies, religions and peoples \u2013 these are the aspects that characterise the life's work of John le Carr\u00e9 ... His novels, whose themes revolve around the contrasts between east and west and the cold war, captivate the reader with their painstaking psychological depiction of the characters and their wealth of historical details \u2013 Le Carr\u00e9 broke with stereotypical viewpoints and criticised the betrayal of western ideals.\"But the author's political involvement goes beyond his writing, the organisation added: \"he repeatedly adopts a public and critical stance on the politics of the West, especially the British-American anti-terror coalition in the wake of the attacks of 11 September\".Le Carr\u00e9 is being recognised for his life's work, the Goethe Institut said, calling him \"Great Britain's most famous German speaker\" and adding that he \"has always been convinced that language learning is the key to understanding foreign cultures\". The English author left school at 16 to study modern languages in Switzerland \u2013 \"determined to embrace the German soul\", he said last year \u2013 deciding in 1949 that Germany was \"worth examining\". From 1959, he worked in Bonn at the British Embassy, and as an agent for the British secret service.Speaking at the Think German conference last year, Le Carr\u00e9 said that for most of his \"conscious childhood Germany had been the rogue elephant in the drawing room. Germans were murderous fellows. They had bombed one of my schools (which I did not entirely take amiss); they had bombed my grandparents' tennis court, which was very serious, and I was terrified of them. But in my rebellious adolescent state, a country that had been so thoroughly bad was also by definition worth examining. Also, one of the few things I had enjoyed about my schooling had been the German language, with which my tongue had formed a natural, friendly relationship.\"The Goethe Institut will award the medal to the author on 28 August in Weimar, when French theatre director Ariane Mnouchkine and Polish intellectual Adam Michnik will also be honoured.", "tags": ["John le Carr\u00e9", "Books", "Thrillers", "Fiction", "Culture"], "title": "Germany honours Le Carr\u00e9 with Goethe Medal"},{"date": "2011-06-17T17:17:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has sued for peace with the European Central Bank (ECB), following weeks of feuding over how to rescue Greece from the devastating debt crisis threatening the future of the euro single currency.Merkel announced on Friday that the decisions on a new three-year bailout package for Greece, tipped to run to \u20ac120bn (\u00a3106bn), would need to be agreed with the ECB.At a Berlin summit with the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, Merkel softened her terms for the Greek bailout, urged a quick decision, stressed that any participation by private creditors in the rescue should be voluntary, and insisted that a new package with Greece would be agreed together with the ECB.Her climbdown was welcomed by the financial markets, as the prospect of Greece suffering a catastrophic disorderly default receded. The euro rallied strongly, gaining more than one cent against the dollar. Europe's major stock markets also closed higher as traders took a more positive view of the Greek situation.The German media, though, promptly predicted that Merkel's olive branch could cost her politically at home.\"For the German government, this is a remarkable shift,\" said the liberal Sueddeutsche Zeitung. \"The chancellor has backed off from a central German demand,\" said the conservative Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.In a research note, JP Morgan said that Berlin seemed to be dropping its insistence on a bond swap by Greece's private creditors, the central factor that the ECB feared would cause the country to be declared in sovereign default.The Berlin summit came at the end of a week of intense political and market turbulence, with riots on the streets of Athens, a Greek government on the brink of collapse, and bad-tempered disarray among EU leaders. And despite the apparent progress, it remains to be seen how the second Greek bailout in a year will be structured.Sarkozy has been on the ECB side of the argument, and characteristically he claimed a breakthrough in Berlin, saying that France and Germany were united on all the essential points on Greece.Merkel has become increasingly isolated in the last fortnight over Germany's insistence that Greece's private creditors \u2013 the banks, pension funds and insurance companies holding much of the insolvent country's \u20ac340bn of debt \u2013 have to take \"haircuts\" or sizeable losses on their investments as part of this second deal to rescue Greece.The Germans wanted the creditors to swap maturing Greek bonds for new seven-year paper bonds on a scale that would be \"quantifiable and substantial.\"The ECB, supported by the European Commission, France and Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, head of the group of 17 eurozone countries, had warned that Berlin's policy could trigger calamity. The ratings agencies would declare Greece in default, bringing down the Greek banks and unleashing financial failure across the European banking sector.The ECB recommended a rollover of Greek debt, with the banks pledging to buy new Greek paper as current loans are repaid, avoiding a \"credit event\" or a Greek default. It now seems that this option will prevail, and a deal will be reached much more quickly following Merkel's concessions.She emphasised that any involvement by private creditors would be \"explicitly voluntary\".A German parliament resolution last week underpinning her negotiating mandate in the EU stipulated that the German government could only agree to a new bailout \"if an appropriate involvement of private creditors is included\".The Germans hoped this latter would amount to one quarter of the slated \u20ac120bn, but the contribution could now be merely symbolic. As she has consistently done throughout the 18-month crisis, Merkel had been playing for time, initially hoping to put off a new bailout until September. After the summit in Berlin, she said: \"It's not about September. It's about the quickest possible solution.\"Finance ministers from the eurozone and the EU meet in Luxembourg on Sunday and on Monday, and could now hammer out a bailout deal to be blessed by a European summit on Thursday.Greece became the first eurozone country to require a bailout in May last year when the Europeans put together a \u20ac110bn package. That has failed amid escalating turmoil in Greece and growing resistance to the swingeing austerity programmes that were the price for the rescue.In a move offering further potential turmoil for the financial markets, the credit ratings agency Moody's said that it may cut Italy's sovereign credit rating from AA2, citing challenges ahead for economic growth due to structural weaknesses and a likely rise in interest rates. visit Luxembourg on Monday for talks with EU leaders who are anxious that the entire rescue scenario could still unravel because of his inability to deliver on a radical privatisation programme, spending cuts, and tax increases.Merkel's remarks came as the IMF warned that debt-ridden European countries were \"playing with fire\" unless they took immediate steps to reduce their budget deficits.The IMF, in its regular assessment of global economic prospects, said bigger threats to growth had emerged since its previous report in April, citing the eurozone debt crisis and signs of overheating in emerging market economies.The IMF also revised downwards its forecast for US growth, estimating GDP would grow a tepid 2.5% this year and 2.7% in 2012 compared with an expected 2.8% and 2.9% growth, respectively, two months ago.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Economics", "Global economy", "Greece", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union"], "title": "Germany retreats from battle over Greek bailout"},{"date": "2011-06-17T12:08:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has admitted defeat over Germany's plan to force private banks to contribute funds to a new bailout package designed to rescue the Greek economy.After a meeting with the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, in Berlin on Thursday, the German chancellor said they had agreed that any contribution from private creditors to the package would have to be voluntary.\"We want the participation of private creditors on a voluntary basis,\" said Merkel, stressing that there was no legal way in which banks could be forced to play along.Sarkozy welcomed Germany's change of position, describing it as \"a breakthrough\".Merkel and Sarkozy both declined to set a date for the Greek deal to be finalised. But Sarkozy indicated that time was running out. \"We want a quick fix \u2026 there is no time to waste,\" he said.The summit was well received by financial markets, which have fallen sharply in recent days as investors feared that Greece would suffer a disorderly default.In London the FTSE 100 index erased early losses, and the euro strengthened against other major currencies. Greek government bonds also staged a small recovery. The yield, or interest rate, on the two-year Greek bond dropped to 28.6%, from over 30% early on Friday.Merkel's admission was a significant climbdown from her earlier position. Berlin had lobbied noisily for the compulsory participation in a new Greek bailout of private lenders, many of whom stand to lose heavily if Greece defaults on its \u20ac300bn (\u00a3265bn) debts.Last year's first Greek bailout, part-funded by European taxpayers, was hugely unpopular in Germany, and Merkel was keen to send a message to voters that not just they, but also the banks, would be paying this time around.Earlier this month European Union finance ministers were said to be considering a plan in which private creditors possessing Greek state bonds would be asked to cover \u20ac20bn \u2013 \u20ac35bn of the costs .As Europe's paymaster, Germany had called for Greece's private creditors to swap their bonds for new ones with maturities that are seven years longer, but encountered fierce resistance to those plans from France, the European central bank and European commission. France in particular was adamant that trying to force private creditors into any Greek deal would be dangerous for the markets.On Thursday the head of the eurozone, Jean-Claude Juncker, said that imposing losses on investors could trigger a European version of the Lehman Brothers bank collapse \u2013 a so-called \"credit event\". \"It's a really ugly situation. The [German] idea is dangerous. It could provoke the gravest risk, that all three rating agencies declare a credit event and then there are big contagion risks for other countries,\" he said.Merkel's meeting with Sarkozy on Friday morning in Berlin was the first face-to-face meeting between the two leaders in seven very rocky months in Franco-German relations. On Wednesday the French ambassador to Germany, Maurice Gourdault-Montagne, told a select group of German journalists that Berlin pays too little attention to its ties with Paris.The ambassador suggested Merkel did not give Sarkozky enough face time, pointing out that the last chancellor, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der, agreed to more one-on-one meetings with his French counterpart when he was in power.But at Thursday's press conference at the chancellery, Sarkozy heralded a \"major breakthrough\" with \"our German friends\". In three hours of talks, he and Merkel had at least agreed that there ideally should be some involvement on the private sector in the Greece bailout, he said.The deal was based on four principles: voluntary participation, speed, no payment default and agreement with the European central bank. Both leaders also stressed that Greece had to comply with its obligations.The duo were keen to reach a consensus ahead of next week's EU summit in Brussels, which will see European leaders try to hammer out a Greek deal.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "World news", "Euro", "Currencies", "Business", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "Germany", "France", "Angela Merkel", "Nicolas Sarkozy"], "title": "Germany climbs down over Greece bailout demands"},{"date": "2011-06-13T17:44:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": " A small Muslim community in northern Germany is pioneering renewable energy sources by planning to build a mosque with wind turbines in its minarets.The \u20ac2.5m (\u00a32.2m) project would see the mosque in Norderstedt, near Hamburg, become one of the first to turn the minaret, the place from which the muezzin called the faithful to prayer, into a wind-fuelled power source.The eco-friendly building is the brainchild of the Hamburg architect Selcuk \u00dcnyilmaz, who has long incorporated energy efficiency into his work. \"I thought about how we could give sacral architecture an ecological focus,\" he said. \"My design combines the modern with the traditional, so I wanted to give the minarets a contemporary function.\"The wind turbines will be housed in two 22-metre-high minarets and \u00dcnyilmaz plans to install a pair of 1.5-metre glass rotor blades in each tower. At certain times of the day light will be beamed at the blades to create a kind of light show.Until now the 200-strong congregation, part of the Turkish-Islamic Union for Religious Affairs, has made do with a 100-year-old building ill-equipped to house a religious community. But last month local authorities approved plans for the project, which will measure about 1,300 sq metres and comprise two parts, the mosque and a larger building containing shops, travel agents, a cafe, hairdresser and offices.\"We want to create a meeting place for people from all religions and nationalities,\" Ugur S\u00fctc\u00fc, the chairman of the Norderstedt congregation, told the Hamburger Abendblatt newspaper. \"There will be advisory services on offer, as well as social, cultural and sporting activities.\"In order to persuade some of the more sceptical members of the congregation of the merits of his the design, \u00dcnyilmaz looked for other mosques with similar wind turbines. But he could not find any other examples that had already been built.The German mosque will not be the first of its kind, however, as the Islamic missionary group Tablighi Jamaat is also planning to build an environmentally friendly mosque with wind turbines in its minarets in time for the London 2012 Olympics.\u00dcnyilmaz's scheme has come at a fortuitous time. Germany has approved a 2022 exit from nuclear energy and there is pressure to make up the shortfall by boosting the renewable energy sector.The community in Norderstedt might be in tune with the energy zeitgeist but is does not yet have funds for the project. However this is not something S\u00fctc\u00fc is too worried about. \"We are confident that we can raise the money,\" he said.The coastal town is perfectly situated for wind energy production, and the minarets will help cover the building's overheads, providing about a third of its energy. \u00dcnyilmaz said that was one of the reasons he opted for turbines instead of solar panels, which would not produce electricity at night. \"We are in the north and I don't think there's a day here that isn't windy,\" he said.", "tags": ["Germany", "Wind power", "Renewable energy", "Islam", "Energy", "Architecture", "Religion", "World news", "Europe", "Environment", "Art and design"], "title": "Eco-friendly mosque planned for Germany"},{"date": "2011-05-30T18:18:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has committed to shutting down all of the country's nuclear reactors by 2022, a task said by one minister to be as mammoth as the project to reunite East and West Germany in 1990.Monday's announcement, prompted by Japan's nuclear disaster, will make Germany the first major industrialised nation to go nuclear-free in decades. It gives the country just over 10 years to find alternative sources for 23% of its energy.The move, hammered out at a mammoth 14-hour overnight sitting at the Kanzleramt, came amid mass nationwide protests against nuclear power and at a low point for the chancellor's Christian Democratic party (CDU), support for which has crumbled at the ballot box in five regional elections this year.Although the proposal was welcomed among the general population, who have long been opposed to nuclear power, it was a move derided by one of Merkel's own MPs as \"knee-jerk politics\".The plan is to keep shut eight reactors which were suspended in March in the immediate aftermath of the Fukushima disaster, and to close the rest by 2022.The phase-out must be ratified in parliament and is likely to face strong opposition from utility companies. On Monday a spokesman for the energy giant RWE said that \"all legal options\" were on the table.Last week, grid operators warned the phase-out could result in winter blackouts \u2013 a prospect Merkel scoffed at . She insisted the decision would not lead to Germany simply importing nuclear power.\"We will generate our own electricity from other sources,\" the chancellor told a press conference in Berlin. She said the plans would give Germany a chance to be a \"trailblazer\" for renewable energy, suggesting it could eventually earn, rather than cost, the country money.Energy firms warned that the decision \u2013 a total policy reversal \u2013 would require significant investment in energy infrastructure. Philipp R\u00f6sler, new head of the FDP party, which rules in coalition with the CDU, agreed, likening the task ahead to that which faced Germany in 1990 after reunification. A study in 2009 showed that \u20ac1.3 trillion (\u00a31.1tn) had been transferred from the West to rebuild the East.This comparison was also made in an editorial by the left-leaning Tageszeitung newspaper on Monday, which said Merkel's decision was \"historic\" and \"a moment like the fall of the Berlin Wall\".The government's vocabulary seemed to consciously echo the reunification process, with Merkel heralding an \"Energie-Wende\" \u2013 \"die Wende\" is the word for change which became shorthand for the fall of communism and reunification.Die Welt, a conservative daily, said the policy U-turn demonstrated a \"creeping rejection of the economic model which has transformed Germany into one of the richest countries in the world\".The French poured scorn on Germany's decision. \"Germany will be even more dependent on fossil fuels and imports and its electricity will be more expensive and polluting,\" said the French industry minister, \u00c9ric Besson. German households pay twice as much for power than homes in France, where 80% of electricity comes from atomic plants, he said.Germany last year was a net exporter of power to France, according to data from the French grid operator, RTE. This trend was reversed last month after the accident at Fukushima and Merkel's decision to halt Germany's oldest reactors.\"Germany's energy policy will only work if there are improvements at the same time,\" the EU energy commissioner, G\u00fcnther Oettinger, said on Monday.He said there was a need for better grid infrastructure, storage capacity and forward planning as well as a more pronounced rise in renewable supply.Germany plans to cut electricity usage by 10% and double the share of renewable energy to 25% by 2020.Merkel first mooted an accelerated exit from nuclear power within days of the Fukushima meltdown, ordering a three-month \"moratorium\" during which nuclear power could be debated.It was a remarkable U-turn. In September 2010, she had committed to extending the lives of Germany's 17 nuclear plants.Many of her party are unhappy with her handling of the situation.\"Knee-jerk politics like the reaction to Fukushima does not pay dividends,\" said Mike Mohring, the head of the CDU faction in the Thuringian state parliament, last week.Among other G8 nations, only Italy has abandoned nuclear power.\u2022 This article was amended on 31 May 2011. The original said that the 14-hour overnight sitting was held at the Bundestag. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "Nuclear waste", "Japan disaster"], "title": "Germany to shut all nuclear reactors"},{"date": "2011-05-24T17:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Born in London from German parents, Frederick Voigt was the Manchester Guardian correspondent in Germany from 1920 to 1933.Voigt was one of the most important of the newspaper's foreign team in the 30s, becoming famous for exposing the threat of the Nazi regime.", "tags": ["Newspapers", "National newspapers", "Germany", "Adolf Hitler"], "title": "28 March 1933: The terror in Germany"},{"date": "2011-05-06T13:33:17Z", "country": "germany", "content": "One of the main benefits of being a citizen of the European Union is supposed to be the freedom to live and work in any country within its borders with no restrictions. But when Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Slovakia, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia joined the EU in 2004, Germany and Austria opted to make use of the maximum seven-year transition period before granting the new member states' citizens full access to their labour market.That period has now expired: as of 1 May, Poles, Hungarians or Latvians can work in Germany and Austria without any restrictions whatsoever. The questions are: how many will want to? And how will the new reality affect the respective countries' economies?Estimates vary as to how many Poles will eventually leave the country, but one thing everybody agrees on is that Poles will make up the largest number of the new wave of central and eastern European economic migrants. And most of them will be heading for Germany and not Austria or Switzerland, which also opened up its labour markets to the EU8 on 1 May. The European Commission predicts about 100,000 people a year will move to Germany from the CEE countries, half of them from Poland. The Polish government itself is expecting more than 400,000 Poles to leave for Germany within the next three years.The Germans say they need the fresh blood in their thriving economy. \"We really need workers. We don't lack jobs, but labour,\" said Ursula von der Leyen, the German labour minister, a few days before 1 May. She also promised Germans that the workers coming would be mostly young, educated and mobile.The likelihood of hundreds of thousands of Poles flocking to Germany in the next few years is doubtful. Ironically, Germany's labour restrictions, while meant to prevent an influx of low-skilled, cheap labour, were actually more of a hindrance to highly qualified professionals. Blue-collar workers who set up their own one-man businesses in trades such as bricklaying have been able to work in Germany legally for several years now: all they needed in order to register a one-man business was a German address and the German equivalent of a national insurance number. In other words, the low-skilled workers who really wanted to work in Germany are already there.White-collar workers, on the other hand, have faced harsher employment restrictions. If, for example, a German firm wanted to employ a Polish accountant, the firm had to prove there were no Germans capable of the job before it could secure a work permit. Some of these restrictions were relaxed a few years ago for particular professions where there was a real lack of workers in Germany, such as engineers or IT specialists, but restrictions remained in most professions.After the 2004 accession, skilled Polish migrants mainly went to countries that opened up their labour markets immediately, such as the UK, Sweden and Ireland. Germany largely missed the opportunity to attract such workers.Another reason Poles won't necessarily flock to Germany is that Poland in 2011 is very different from Poland in 2004. According to IMF figures its GDP per capita now stands at more than $18,000 (\u00a311,000) as opposed to about $11,000 seven years ago. The economy has grown steadily since accession and so have wages. In fact, the World Bank now classifies Poland as a \"high-income country\". Of course, salaries are still much higher in Germany but they are now roughly three times higher, not six or seven times higher like in the past. And one must remember that life in Germany is decidedly more expensive than in Poland.Talking to the president of a major Polish construction company recently, I mentioned the fear that Germany would suck in all of Poland's best workers. That's what everyone said before the 2004 accession, he said: \"But where are all those rich Germans today?\"Will some of the Poles and other eastern Europeans currently living in the UK and Ireland leave those countries and move to the thriving Germany? An April report by the British thinktank, the National Institute of Economic and Social Research (NIESR) says the lifting of barriers could drive some eastern European workers away to Germany, but the report does not expect that number to be significant.Germany sent the wrong signals to young, educated and mobile Poles immediately after the 2004 accession. The engineers, IT specialists and qualified medical personnel it now seeks left Poland for other countries years ago. And if those scattered around the continent do decide to pack up and leave the countries they are currently residing in, it is more likely they will be boarding a plane headed for Warsaw rather than for Berlin.", "tags": ["Poland", "Germany", "European Union", "Europe", "Global economy", "Migration and development", "Business", "Global development", "World news"], "title": "Germany has lost its lure for Poles | Remi Adekoya"},{"date": "2011-06-21T15:36:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Germans are not amused these days. Look everywhere from tabloids to the blogosphere, and it seems that the public mood has reached boiling point. Loth to shoulder another national debt increase and finance another bailout, the Germans have started questioning everything from the wisdom of supporting Greece to the common euro currency, or indeed the merits of the European integration project altogether. This might be strange for a country that is nudging ever closer to full employment, and which is about to recapture its position as the world's leading exporter of manufactured goods from the Chinese. But the Germans say they've had enough: no more underwriting of European integration, no more paying for this and that, and certainly no more bailing out the Greeks.What is truly strange, however, is the brevity of Germany's collective memory. For during much of the 20th century, the situation was radically different: after the first world war and again after the second world war, Germany was the world's largest debtor, and in both cases owed its economic recovery to large-scale debt relief.Germany's interwar debt crisis started almost exactly 80 years ago, in the last days of June 1931. What had triggered it was Germany's aggressive borrowing in the late 1920s to pay reparations out of credit. A credit bubble resulted, and when it burst in 1931, it brought down reparations, the gold standard and, not least, Weimar democracy.Having footed the resulting massive bill, after the second world war the Americans imposed the London debt agreement of 1953 on their allies, an exercise in debt forgiveness to Germany on the most generous terms. West Germany's economic miracle, the stability of the deutschmark and the favourable state of its public finances were all owed to this massive haircut. But it put Germany's creditors at a disadvantage, leaving it to them to cope with the financial aftermath of the German occupation.Indeed, the London debt agreement deferred settlement of the reparations question \u2013 including the repayment of war debts and contributions imposed by Germany during the war \u2013 to a conference to be held after unification. This conference never took place: since 1990, the Germans have steadfastly refused to reopen this can of worms. Such compensation as has been paid, mostly to forced workers, was channelled through NGOs to avoid creating precedents. Only one country has challenged this openly and tried to obtain compensation in court: Greece.It may or may not have been wise to put the issue of reparations and other unsettled claims on Germany to rest after 1990. Back then, the Germans argued that any plausible bill would exceed the country's resources, and that continued financial co-operation in Europe instead would be infinitely more preferable. They may have had a point. But now is the time for Germany to deliver on the promise, act wisely and keep the bull away from the china shop.", "tags": ["Germany", "Greece", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Second world war", "Europe", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Germany owes Greece a debt | Albrecht Ritschl"},{"date": "2011-06-21T11:24:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "John le Carr\u00e9 might have withdrawn from the running for the Man Booker International prize because he \"doesn't compete for literary awards\", but the thriller author has nonetheless accepted a medal honouring him for his contribution to \"the development of coalescence, peace and creativity in Europe\".Le Carr\u00e9 has been named as one of this year's recipients of Germany's Goethe Medal, which goes to individuals who \"have performed outstanding service for the German language and international cultural dialogue\". This \"master of the political and psychological crime novel\", according to the Goethe Institut, \"condensed Germany's difficult role during the era of the cold war\" in his books, and \"vividly brings to life the global fields of conflict\".An official decoration of the Federal Republic of Germany, first awarded in 1955, the Goethe Medal has been won in the past by Hungarian-Jewish Nobel laureate Imre Kert\u00e9sz, conductor Daniel Barenboim, film director Billy Wilder and publisher Helen Wolff.\"Fifty years after the Berlin Wall was built, 20 years after the end of the Soviet Union and 10 years after the terrorist attacks of 11 September \u2013 there could be no better moment than this to pay tribute to this extraordinary achievement of John le Carr\u00e9 with the Goethe Medal,\" said the Goethe Institut. \"Viewing language and knowledge of a country as a prerequisite for penetrating world history and understanding ideologies, religions and peoples \u2013 these are the aspects that characterise the life's work of John le Carr\u00e9 ... His novels, whose themes revolve around the contrasts between east and west and the cold war, captivate the reader with their painstaking psychological depiction of the characters and their wealth of historical details \u2013 Le Carr\u00e9 broke with stereotypical viewpoints and criticised the betrayal of western ideals.\"But the author's political involvement goes beyond his writing, the organisation added: \"he repeatedly adopts a public and critical stance on the politics of the West, especially the British-American anti-terror coalition in the wake of the attacks of 11 September\".Le Carr\u00e9 is being recognised for his life's work, the Goethe Institut said, calling him \"Great Britain's most famous German speaker\" and adding that he \"has always been convinced that language learning is the key to understanding foreign cultures\". The English author left school at 16 to study modern languages in Switzerland \u2013 \"determined to embrace the German soul\", he said last year \u2013 deciding in 1949 that Germany was \"worth examining\". From 1959, he worked in Bonn at the British Embassy, and as an agent for the British secret service.Speaking at the Think German conference last year, Le Carr\u00e9 said that for most of his \"conscious childhood Germany had been the rogue elephant in the drawing room. Germans were murderous fellows. They had bombed one of my schools (which I did not entirely take amiss); they had bombed my grandparents' tennis court, which was very serious, and I was terrified of them. But in my rebellious adolescent state, a country that had been so thoroughly bad was also by definition worth examining. Also, one of the few things I had enjoyed about my schooling had been the German language, with which my tongue had formed a natural, friendly relationship.\"The Goethe Institut will award the medal to the author on 28 August in Weimar, when French theatre director Ariane Mnouchkine and Polish intellectual Adam Michnik will also be honoured.", "tags": ["John le Carr\u00e9", "Books", "Thrillers", "Fiction", "Culture"], "title": "Germany honours Le Carr\u00e9 with Goethe Medal"},{"date": "2011-06-17T17:17:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has sued for peace with the European Central Bank (ECB), following weeks of feuding over how to rescue Greece from the devastating debt crisis threatening the future of the euro single currency.Merkel announced on Friday that the decisions on a new three-year bailout package for Greece, tipped to run to \u20ac120bn (\u00a3106bn), would need to be agreed with the ECB.At a Berlin summit with the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, Merkel softened her terms for the Greek bailout, urged a quick decision, stressed that any participation by private creditors in the rescue should be voluntary, and insisted that a new package with Greece would be agreed together with the ECB.Her climbdown was welcomed by the financial markets, as the prospect of Greece suffering a catastrophic disorderly default receded. The euro rallied strongly, gaining more than one cent against the dollar. Europe's major stock markets also closed higher as traders took a more positive view of the Greek situation.The German media, though, promptly predicted that Merkel's olive branch could cost her politically at home.\"For the German government, this is a remarkable shift,\" said the liberal Sueddeutsche Zeitung. \"The chancellor has backed off from a central German demand,\" said the conservative Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.In a research note, JP Morgan said that Berlin seemed to be dropping its insistence on a bond swap by Greece's private creditors, the central factor that the ECB feared would cause the country to be declared in sovereign default.The Berlin summit came at the end of a week of intense political and market turbulence, with riots on the streets of Athens, a Greek government on the brink of collapse, and bad-tempered disarray among EU leaders. And despite the apparent progress, it remains to be seen how the second Greek bailout in a year will be structured.Sarkozy has been on the ECB side of the argument, and characteristically he claimed a breakthrough in Berlin, saying that France and Germany were united on all the essential points on Greece.Merkel has become increasingly isolated in the last fortnight over Germany's insistence that Greece's private creditors \u2013 the banks, pension funds and insurance companies holding much of the insolvent country's \u20ac340bn of debt \u2013 have to take \"haircuts\" or sizeable losses on their investments as part of this second deal to rescue Greece.The Germans wanted the creditors to swap maturing Greek bonds for new seven-year paper bonds on a scale that would be \"quantifiable and substantial.\"The ECB, supported by the European Commission, France and Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, head of the group of 17 eurozone countries, had warned that Berlin's policy could trigger calamity. The ratings agencies would declare Greece in default, bringing down the Greek banks and unleashing financial failure across the European banking sector.The ECB recommended a rollover of Greek debt, with the banks pledging to buy new Greek paper as current loans are repaid, avoiding a \"credit event\" or a Greek default. It now seems that this option will prevail, and a deal will be reached much more quickly following Merkel's concessions.She emphasised that any involvement by private creditors would be \"explicitly voluntary\".A German parliament resolution last week underpinning her negotiating mandate in the EU stipulated that the German government could only agree to a new bailout \"if an appropriate involvement of private creditors is included\".The Germans hoped this latter would amount to one quarter of the slated \u20ac120bn, but the contribution could now be merely symbolic. As she has consistently done throughout the 18-month crisis, Merkel had been playing for time, initially hoping to put off a new bailout until September. After the summit in Berlin, she said: \"It's not about September. It's about the quickest possible solution.\"Finance ministers from the eurozone and the EU meet in Luxembourg on Sunday and on Monday, and could now hammer out a bailout deal to be blessed by a European summit on Thursday.Greece became the first eurozone country to require a bailout in May last year when the Europeans put together a \u20ac110bn package. That has failed amid escalating turmoil in Greece and growing resistance to the swingeing austerity programmes that were the price for the rescue.In a move offering further potential turmoil for the financial markets, the credit ratings agency Moody's said that it may cut Italy's sovereign credit rating from AA2, citing challenges ahead for economic growth due to structural weaknesses and a likely rise in interest rates. visit Luxembourg on Monday for talks with EU leaders who are anxious that the entire rescue scenario could still unravel because of his inability to deliver on a radical privatisation programme, spending cuts, and tax increases.Merkel's remarks came as the IMF warned that debt-ridden European countries were \"playing with fire\" unless they took immediate steps to reduce their budget deficits.The IMF, in its regular assessment of global economic prospects, said bigger threats to growth had emerged since its previous report in April, citing the eurozone debt crisis and signs of overheating in emerging market economies.The IMF also revised downwards its forecast for US growth, estimating GDP would grow a tepid 2.5% this year and 2.7% in 2012 compared with an expected 2.8% and 2.9% growth, respectively, two months ago.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Economics", "Global economy", "Greece", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union"], "title": "Germany retreats from battle over Greek bailout"},{"date": "2011-06-17T12:08:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has admitted defeat over Germany's plan to force private banks to contribute funds to a new bailout package designed to rescue the Greek economy.After a meeting with the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, in Berlin on Thursday, the German chancellor said they had agreed that any contribution from private creditors to the package would have to be voluntary.\"We want the participation of private creditors on a voluntary basis,\" said Merkel, stressing that there was no legal way in which banks could be forced to play along.Sarkozy welcomed Germany's change of position, describing it as \"a breakthrough\".Merkel and Sarkozy both declined to set a date for the Greek deal to be finalised. But Sarkozy indicated that time was running out. \"We want a quick fix \u2026 there is no time to waste,\" he said.The summit was well received by financial markets, which have fallen sharply in recent days as investors feared that Greece would suffer a disorderly default.In London the FTSE 100 index erased early losses, and the euro strengthened against other major currencies. Greek government bonds also staged a small recovery. The yield, or interest rate, on the two-year Greek bond dropped to 28.6%, from over 30% early on Friday.Merkel's admission was a significant climbdown from her earlier position. Berlin had lobbied noisily for the compulsory participation in a new Greek bailout of private lenders, many of whom stand to lose heavily if Greece defaults on its \u20ac300bn (\u00a3265bn) debts.Last year's first Greek bailout, part-funded by European taxpayers, was hugely unpopular in Germany, and Merkel was keen to send a message to voters that not just they, but also the banks, would be paying this time around.Earlier this month European Union finance ministers were said to be considering a plan in which private creditors possessing Greek state bonds would be asked to cover \u20ac20bn \u2013 \u20ac35bn of the costs .As Europe's paymaster, Germany had called for Greece's private creditors to swap their bonds for new ones with maturities that are seven years longer, but encountered fierce resistance to those plans from France, the European central bank and European commission. France in particular was adamant that trying to force private creditors into any Greek deal would be dangerous for the markets.On Thursday the head of the eurozone, Jean-Claude Juncker, said that imposing losses on investors could trigger a European version of the Lehman Brothers bank collapse \u2013 a so-called \"credit event\". \"It's a really ugly situation. The [German] idea is dangerous. It could provoke the gravest risk, that all three rating agencies declare a credit event and then there are big contagion risks for other countries,\" he said.Merkel's meeting with Sarkozy on Friday morning in Berlin was the first face-to-face meeting between the two leaders in seven very rocky months in Franco-German relations. On Wednesday the French ambassador to Germany, Maurice Gourdault-Montagne, told a select group of German journalists that Berlin pays too little attention to its ties with Paris.The ambassador suggested Merkel did not give Sarkozky enough face time, pointing out that the last chancellor, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der, agreed to more one-on-one meetings with his French counterpart when he was in power.But at Thursday's press conference at the chancellery, Sarkozy heralded a \"major breakthrough\" with \"our German friends\". In three hours of talks, he and Merkel had at least agreed that there ideally should be some involvement on the private sector in the Greece bailout, he said.The deal was based on four principles: voluntary participation, speed, no payment default and agreement with the European central bank. Both leaders also stressed that Greece had to comply with its obligations.The duo were keen to reach a consensus ahead of next week's EU summit in Brussels, which will see European leaders try to hammer out a Greek deal.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "World news", "Euro", "Currencies", "Business", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "Germany", "France", "Angela Merkel", "Nicolas Sarkozy"], "title": "Germany climbs down over Greece bailout demands"},{"date": "2011-06-13T17:44:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": " A small Muslim community in northern Germany is pioneering renewable energy sources by planning to build a mosque with wind turbines in its minarets.The \u20ac2.5m (\u00a32.2m) project would see the mosque in Norderstedt, near Hamburg, become one of the first to turn the minaret, the place from which the muezzin called the faithful to prayer, into a wind-fuelled power source.The eco-friendly building is the brainchild of the Hamburg architect Selcuk \u00dcnyilmaz, who has long incorporated energy efficiency into his work. \"I thought about how we could give sacral architecture an ecological focus,\" he said. \"My design combines the modern with the traditional, so I wanted to give the minarets a contemporary function.\"The wind turbines will be housed in two 22-metre-high minarets and \u00dcnyilmaz plans to install a pair of 1.5-metre glass rotor blades in each tower. At certain times of the day light will be beamed at the blades to create a kind of light show.Until now the 200-strong congregation, part of the Turkish-Islamic Union for Religious Affairs, has made do with a 100-year-old building ill-equipped to house a religious community. But last month local authorities approved plans for the project, which will measure about 1,300 sq metres and comprise two parts, the mosque and a larger building containing shops, travel agents, a cafe, hairdresser and offices.\"We want to create a meeting place for people from all religions and nationalities,\" Ugur S\u00fctc\u00fc, the chairman of the Norderstedt congregation, told the Hamburger Abendblatt newspaper. \"There will be advisory services on offer, as well as social, cultural and sporting activities.\"In order to persuade some of the more sceptical members of the congregation of the merits of his the design, \u00dcnyilmaz looked for other mosques with similar wind turbines. But he could not find any other examples that had already been built.The German mosque will not be the first of its kind, however, as the Islamic missionary group Tablighi Jamaat is also planning to build an environmentally friendly mosque with wind turbines in its minarets in time for the London 2012 Olympics.\u00dcnyilmaz's scheme has come at a fortuitous time. Germany has approved a 2022 exit from nuclear energy and there is pressure to make up the shortfall by boosting the renewable energy sector.The community in Norderstedt might be in tune with the energy zeitgeist but is does not yet have funds for the project. However this is not something S\u00fctc\u00fc is too worried about. \"We are confident that we can raise the money,\" he said.The coastal town is perfectly situated for wind energy production, and the minarets will help cover the building's overheads, providing about a third of its energy. \u00dcnyilmaz said that was one of the reasons he opted for turbines instead of solar panels, which would not produce electricity at night. \"We are in the north and I don't think there's a day here that isn't windy,\" he said.", "tags": ["Germany", "Wind power", "Renewable energy", "Islam", "Energy", "Architecture", "Religion", "World news", "Europe", "Environment", "Art and design"], "title": "Eco-friendly mosque planned for Germany"},{"date": "2011-05-30T18:18:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has committed to shutting down all of the country's nuclear reactors by 2022, a task said by one minister to be as mammoth as the project to reunite East and West Germany in 1990.Monday's announcement, prompted by Japan's nuclear disaster, will make Germany the first major industrialised nation to go nuclear-free in decades. It gives the country just over 10 years to find alternative sources for 23% of its energy.The move, hammered out at a mammoth 14-hour overnight sitting at the Kanzleramt, came amid mass nationwide protests against nuclear power and at a low point for the chancellor's Christian Democratic party (CDU), support for which has crumbled at the ballot box in five regional elections this year.Although the proposal was welcomed among the general population, who have long been opposed to nuclear power, it was a move derided by one of Merkel's own MPs as \"knee-jerk politics\".The plan is to keep shut eight reactors which were suspended in March in the immediate aftermath of the Fukushima disaster, and to close the rest by 2022.The phase-out must be ratified in parliament and is likely to face strong opposition from utility companies. On Monday a spokesman for the energy giant RWE said that \"all legal options\" were on the table.Last week, grid operators warned the phase-out could result in winter blackouts \u2013 a prospect Merkel scoffed at . She insisted the decision would not lead to Germany simply importing nuclear power.\"We will generate our own electricity from other sources,\" the chancellor told a press conference in Berlin. She said the plans would give Germany a chance to be a \"trailblazer\" for renewable energy, suggesting it could eventually earn, rather than cost, the country money.Energy firms warned that the decision \u2013 a total policy reversal \u2013 would require significant investment in energy infrastructure. Philipp R\u00f6sler, new head of the FDP party, which rules in coalition with the CDU, agreed, likening the task ahead to that which faced Germany in 1990 after reunification. A study in 2009 showed that \u20ac1.3 trillion (\u00a31.1tn) had been transferred from the West to rebuild the East.This comparison was also made in an editorial by the left-leaning Tageszeitung newspaper on Monday, which said Merkel's decision was \"historic\" and \"a moment like the fall of the Berlin Wall\".The government's vocabulary seemed to consciously echo the reunification process, with Merkel heralding an \"Energie-Wende\" \u2013 \"die Wende\" is the word for change which became shorthand for the fall of communism and reunification.Die Welt, a conservative daily, said the policy U-turn demonstrated a \"creeping rejection of the economic model which has transformed Germany into one of the richest countries in the world\".The French poured scorn on Germany's decision. \"Germany will be even more dependent on fossil fuels and imports and its electricity will be more expensive and polluting,\" said the French industry minister, \u00c9ric Besson. German households pay twice as much for power than homes in France, where 80% of electricity comes from atomic plants, he said.Germany last year was a net exporter of power to France, according to data from the French grid operator, RTE. This trend was reversed last month after the accident at Fukushima and Merkel's decision to halt Germany's oldest reactors.\"Germany's energy policy will only work if there are improvements at the same time,\" the EU energy commissioner, G\u00fcnther Oettinger, said on Monday.He said there was a need for better grid infrastructure, storage capacity and forward planning as well as a more pronounced rise in renewable supply.Germany plans to cut electricity usage by 10% and double the share of renewable energy to 25% by 2020.Merkel first mooted an accelerated exit from nuclear power within days of the Fukushima meltdown, ordering a three-month \"moratorium\" during which nuclear power could be debated.It was a remarkable U-turn. In September 2010, she had committed to extending the lives of Germany's 17 nuclear plants.Many of her party are unhappy with her handling of the situation.\"Knee-jerk politics like the reaction to Fukushima does not pay dividends,\" said Mike Mohring, the head of the CDU faction in the Thuringian state parliament, last week.Among other G8 nations, only Italy has abandoned nuclear power.\u2022 This article was amended on 31 May 2011. The original said that the 14-hour overnight sitting was held at the Bundestag. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "Nuclear waste", "Japan disaster"], "title": "Germany to shut all nuclear reactors"},{"date": "2011-05-24T17:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Born in London from German parents, Frederick Voigt was the Manchester Guardian correspondent in Germany from 1920 to 1933.Voigt was one of the most important of the newspaper's foreign team in the 30s, becoming famous for exposing the threat of the Nazi regime.", "tags": ["Newspapers", "National newspapers", "Germany", "Adolf Hitler"], "title": "28 March 1933: The terror in Germany"},{"date": "2011-05-06T13:33:17Z", "country": "germany", "content": "One of the main benefits of being a citizen of the European Union is supposed to be the freedom to live and work in any country within its borders with no restrictions. But when Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Slovakia, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia joined the EU in 2004, Germany and Austria opted to make use of the maximum seven-year transition period before granting the new member states' citizens full access to their labour market.That period has now expired: as of 1 May, Poles, Hungarians or Latvians can work in Germany and Austria without any restrictions whatsoever. The questions are: how many will want to? And how will the new reality affect the respective countries' economies?Estimates vary as to how many Poles will eventually leave the country, but one thing everybody agrees on is that Poles will make up the largest number of the new wave of central and eastern European economic migrants. And most of them will be heading for Germany and not Austria or Switzerland, which also opened up its labour markets to the EU8 on 1 May. The European Commission predicts about 100,000 people a year will move to Germany from the CEE countries, half of them from Poland. The Polish government itself is expecting more than 400,000 Poles to leave for Germany within the next three years.The Germans say they need the fresh blood in their thriving economy. \"We really need workers. We don't lack jobs, but labour,\" said Ursula von der Leyen, the German labour minister, a few days before 1 May. She also promised Germans that the workers coming would be mostly young, educated and mobile.The likelihood of hundreds of thousands of Poles flocking to Germany in the next few years is doubtful. Ironically, Germany's labour restrictions, while meant to prevent an influx of low-skilled, cheap labour, were actually more of a hindrance to highly qualified professionals. Blue-collar workers who set up their own one-man businesses in trades such as bricklaying have been able to work in Germany legally for several years now: all they needed in order to register a one-man business was a German address and the German equivalent of a national insurance number. In other words, the low-skilled workers who really wanted to work in Germany are already there.White-collar workers, on the other hand, have faced harsher employment restrictions. If, for example, a German firm wanted to employ a Polish accountant, the firm had to prove there were no Germans capable of the job before it could secure a work permit. Some of these restrictions were relaxed a few years ago for particular professions where there was a real lack of workers in Germany, such as engineers or IT specialists, but restrictions remained in most professions.After the 2004 accession, skilled Polish migrants mainly went to countries that opened up their labour markets immediately, such as the UK, Sweden and Ireland. Germany largely missed the opportunity to attract such workers.Another reason Poles won't necessarily flock to Germany is that Poland in 2011 is very different from Poland in 2004. According to IMF figures its GDP per capita now stands at more than $18,000 (\u00a311,000) as opposed to about $11,000 seven years ago. The economy has grown steadily since accession and so have wages. In fact, the World Bank now classifies Poland as a \"high-income country\". Of course, salaries are still much higher in Germany but they are now roughly three times higher, not six or seven times higher like in the past. And one must remember that life in Germany is decidedly more expensive than in Poland.Talking to the president of a major Polish construction company recently, I mentioned the fear that Germany would suck in all of Poland's best workers. That's what everyone said before the 2004 accession, he said: \"But where are all those rich Germans today?\"Will some of the Poles and other eastern Europeans currently living in the UK and Ireland leave those countries and move to the thriving Germany? An April report by the British thinktank, the National Institute of Economic and Social Research (NIESR) says the lifting of barriers could drive some eastern European workers away to Germany, but the report does not expect that number to be significant.Germany sent the wrong signals to young, educated and mobile Poles immediately after the 2004 accession. The engineers, IT specialists and qualified medical personnel it now seeks left Poland for other countries years ago. And if those scattered around the continent do decide to pack up and leave the countries they are currently residing in, it is more likely they will be boarding a plane headed for Warsaw rather than for Berlin.", "tags": ["Poland", "Germany", "European Union", "Europe", "Global economy", "Migration and development", "Business", "Global development", "World news"], "title": "Germany has lost its lure for Poles | Remi Adekoya"},{"date": "2011-04-22T13:00:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It would have caused a chuckle among British tabloid readers. In Germany (and Greece) it caused a storm. On February 22 2010, the German news magazine Focus published a cover that depicted the Aphrodite of Milos with an outstretched arm making a very rude gesture at its readers. The caption \u2013 \"Cheats in our euro-family\" \u2013 was clearly directed at Greece, which was just then negotiating a \u20ac110bn bailout package with its eurozone partners. Now a group of Greeks is suing Focus for defamation.The Focus cover illustrated how much Germany's traditionally staid and politically correct media landscape has changed. More importantly, it represented a shift of German attitudes away from unquestioning support for European integration towards a more hard-nosed attitude towards the EU.Focus was not alone. The German press coverage of the eurozone crisis has ranged from the doubtful to the visceral. Bild Zeitung, the country's biggest and most influential tabloid, revelled in stories about Greeks retiring at 50 and dodging their taxes. \"We give you cash, you give us Corfu\", ran one headline that particularly upset the Greeks. Even sober and serious broadsheets such as Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung ran articles and interviews that left Germans confused about the sacrifices they are making for their broke neighbours. Instead of explaining that Greece, Ireland and Portugal are receiving bilaterally guaranteed loans (at interest rates that benefit the lenders), the media have portrayed the bailouts as a straight cash transfer: education, pensions and social benefits in Germany would suffer as a result.Is the German attitude towards Europe turning nasty? The current sense of frustration in Germany is worrying, and in many ways unjustified (Germany itself has contributed to the crisis). But some offensive and distorting media coverage does not mean that Germany is turning unequivocally Eurosceptic.Germany has never had a proper debate about its membership in the EU before. When I grew up there, all political parties were staunch supporters of European integration. Governments would be happy to pay extra deutschmarks to achieve the EU-wide compromises to make such integration possible. Newspaper editors and TV commentators hardly ever talked about the costs and benefits of Germany's EU membership. German people were not asked whether they wanted to give up their currency or admit former communist countries into the EU. It was assumed that what was good for Europe was good for Germany.So Germany's European debate is overdue \u2013 it is just unfortunate that this debate starts at a time when the eurozone crisis has whipped up a nasty sense of indignation. Like a currency that has been fixed for too long, Germany's European debate now overshoots. My hunch is that once the debate calms down and matures, the Germans will decide that European integration and solidarity is still very much in their interest.This does not mean, however, that Berlin will ever go back to the unquestioning support of integration and chequebook diplomacy of old. Several underlying trends mean that henceforth Europe has to cope with a new German reality.First, Germany is now run by a group of leaders with no living memory of the horrors of the second world war. Defeated postwar Germany could have a foreign policy only as part of a European club or a western alliance. Today, many Germans think they have paid their historical dues. For the generation of Helmut Kohl, Europe was a matter of war and peace; for Chancellor Merkel and most of her contemporaries, it is a question of costs and benefits.Second, Germany used to be a frontline state in the cold war. Membership in the EU and Nato was a matter of survival. Following the eastward enlargement of both organisations, Germany is now surrounded by friends and it can define its national interest differently. Also, the fact that the EU now consists of 27 very diverse nations means there is no \"EU interest\" with which Germany could easily align.Germany's European debate is not all negative. There are just as many voices calling on Merkel to take a more enlightened approach to European leadership and invest in the euro's future. The backlash against the euro has finally forced Germany's politicians, columnists and business leaders to explain the many benefits that Germany has reaped from European integration. For Germany to become a \"normal\" country in Europe will mean acting in a way that befits its historic legacy, economic power and new responsibilities. It will be a few years before Germans figure out how to do this well. In the meantime, expect some upsetting headlines and diplomatic faux-pas.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe", "Eurozone crisis", "Business", "European monetary union"], "title": "Is Germany flipping the bird at Europe? | Katinka Barysch"},{"date": "2011-06-21T15:36:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Germans are not amused these days. Look everywhere from tabloids to the blogosphere, and it seems that the public mood has reached boiling point. Loth to shoulder another national debt increase and finance another bailout, the Germans have started questioning everything from the wisdom of supporting Greece to the common euro currency, or indeed the merits of the European integration project altogether. This might be strange for a country that is nudging ever closer to full employment, and which is about to recapture its position as the world's leading exporter of manufactured goods from the Chinese. But the Germans say they've had enough: no more underwriting of European integration, no more paying for this and that, and certainly no more bailing out the Greeks.What is truly strange, however, is the brevity of Germany's collective memory. For during much of the 20th century, the situation was radically different: after the first world war and again after the second world war, Germany was the world's largest debtor, and in both cases owed its economic recovery to large-scale debt relief.Germany's interwar debt crisis started almost exactly 80 years ago, in the last days of June 1931. What had triggered it was Germany's aggressive borrowing in the late 1920s to pay reparations out of credit. A credit bubble resulted, and when it burst in 1931, it brought down reparations, the gold standard and, not least, Weimar democracy.Having footed the resulting massive bill, after the second world war the Americans imposed the London debt agreement of 1953 on their allies, an exercise in debt forgiveness to Germany on the most generous terms. West Germany's economic miracle, the stability of the deutschmark and the favourable state of its public finances were all owed to this massive haircut. But it put Germany's creditors at a disadvantage, leaving it to them to cope with the financial aftermath of the German occupation.Indeed, the London debt agreement deferred settlement of the reparations question \u2013 including the repayment of war debts and contributions imposed by Germany during the war \u2013 to a conference to be held after unification. This conference never took place: since 1990, the Germans have steadfastly refused to reopen this can of worms. Such compensation as has been paid, mostly to forced workers, was channelled through NGOs to avoid creating precedents. Only one country has challenged this openly and tried to obtain compensation in court: Greece.It may or may not have been wise to put the issue of reparations and other unsettled claims on Germany to rest after 1990. Back then, the Germans argued that any plausible bill would exceed the country's resources, and that continued financial co-operation in Europe instead would be infinitely more preferable. They may have had a point. But now is the time for Germany to deliver on the promise, act wisely and keep the bull away from the china shop.", "tags": ["Germany", "Greece", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Second world war", "Europe", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Germany owes Greece a debt | Albrecht Ritschl"},{"date": "2011-06-21T11:24:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "John le Carr\u00e9 might have withdrawn from the running for the Man Booker International prize because he \"doesn't compete for literary awards\", but the thriller author has nonetheless accepted a medal honouring him for his contribution to \"the development of coalescence, peace and creativity in Europe\".Le Carr\u00e9 has been named as one of this year's recipients of Germany's Goethe Medal, which goes to individuals who \"have performed outstanding service for the German language and international cultural dialogue\". This \"master of the political and psychological crime novel\", according to the Goethe Institut, \"condensed Germany's difficult role during the era of the cold war\" in his books, and \"vividly brings to life the global fields of conflict\".An official decoration of the Federal Republic of Germany, first awarded in 1955, the Goethe Medal has been won in the past by Hungarian-Jewish Nobel laureate Imre Kert\u00e9sz, conductor Daniel Barenboim, film director Billy Wilder and publisher Helen Wolff.\"Fifty years after the Berlin Wall was built, 20 years after the end of the Soviet Union and 10 years after the terrorist attacks of 11 September \u2013 there could be no better moment than this to pay tribute to this extraordinary achievement of John le Carr\u00e9 with the Goethe Medal,\" said the Goethe Institut. \"Viewing language and knowledge of a country as a prerequisite for penetrating world history and understanding ideologies, religions and peoples \u2013 these are the aspects that characterise the life's work of John le Carr\u00e9 ... His novels, whose themes revolve around the contrasts between east and west and the cold war, captivate the reader with their painstaking psychological depiction of the characters and their wealth of historical details \u2013 Le Carr\u00e9 broke with stereotypical viewpoints and criticised the betrayal of western ideals.\"But the author's political involvement goes beyond his writing, the organisation added: \"he repeatedly adopts a public and critical stance on the politics of the West, especially the British-American anti-terror coalition in the wake of the attacks of 11 September\".Le Carr\u00e9 is being recognised for his life's work, the Goethe Institut said, calling him \"Great Britain's most famous German speaker\" and adding that he \"has always been convinced that language learning is the key to understanding foreign cultures\". The English author left school at 16 to study modern languages in Switzerland \u2013 \"determined to embrace the German soul\", he said last year \u2013 deciding in 1949 that Germany was \"worth examining\". From 1959, he worked in Bonn at the British Embassy, and as an agent for the British secret service.Speaking at the Think German conference last year, Le Carr\u00e9 said that for most of his \"conscious childhood Germany had been the rogue elephant in the drawing room. Germans were murderous fellows. They had bombed one of my schools (which I did not entirely take amiss); they had bombed my grandparents' tennis court, which was very serious, and I was terrified of them. But in my rebellious adolescent state, a country that had been so thoroughly bad was also by definition worth examining. Also, one of the few things I had enjoyed about my schooling had been the German language, with which my tongue had formed a natural, friendly relationship.\"The Goethe Institut will award the medal to the author on 28 August in Weimar, when French theatre director Ariane Mnouchkine and Polish intellectual Adam Michnik will also be honoured.", "tags": ["John le Carr\u00e9", "Books", "Thrillers", "Fiction", "Culture"], "title": "Germany honours Le Carr\u00e9 with Goethe Medal"},{"date": "2011-06-17T17:17:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has sued for peace with the European Central Bank (ECB), following weeks of feuding over how to rescue Greece from the devastating debt crisis threatening the future of the euro single currency.Merkel announced on Friday that the decisions on a new three-year bailout package for Greece, tipped to run to \u20ac120bn (\u00a3106bn), would need to be agreed with the ECB.At a Berlin summit with the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, Merkel softened her terms for the Greek bailout, urged a quick decision, stressed that any participation by private creditors in the rescue should be voluntary, and insisted that a new package with Greece would be agreed together with the ECB.Her climbdown was welcomed by the financial markets, as the prospect of Greece suffering a catastrophic disorderly default receded. The euro rallied strongly, gaining more than one cent against the dollar. Europe's major stock markets also closed higher as traders took a more positive view of the Greek situation.The German media, though, promptly predicted that Merkel's olive branch could cost her politically at home.\"For the German government, this is a remarkable shift,\" said the liberal Sueddeutsche Zeitung. \"The chancellor has backed off from a central German demand,\" said the conservative Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.In a research note, JP Morgan said that Berlin seemed to be dropping its insistence on a bond swap by Greece's private creditors, the central factor that the ECB feared would cause the country to be declared in sovereign default.The Berlin summit came at the end of a week of intense political and market turbulence, with riots on the streets of Athens, a Greek government on the brink of collapse, and bad-tempered disarray among EU leaders. And despite the apparent progress, it remains to be seen how the second Greek bailout in a year will be structured.Sarkozy has been on the ECB side of the argument, and characteristically he claimed a breakthrough in Berlin, saying that France and Germany were united on all the essential points on Greece.Merkel has become increasingly isolated in the last fortnight over Germany's insistence that Greece's private creditors \u2013 the banks, pension funds and insurance companies holding much of the insolvent country's \u20ac340bn of debt \u2013 have to take \"haircuts\" or sizeable losses on their investments as part of this second deal to rescue Greece.The Germans wanted the creditors to swap maturing Greek bonds for new seven-year paper bonds on a scale that would be \"quantifiable and substantial.\"The ECB, supported by the European Commission, France and Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, head of the group of 17 eurozone countries, had warned that Berlin's policy could trigger calamity. The ratings agencies would declare Greece in default, bringing down the Greek banks and unleashing financial failure across the European banking sector.The ECB recommended a rollover of Greek debt, with the banks pledging to buy new Greek paper as current loans are repaid, avoiding a \"credit event\" or a Greek default. It now seems that this option will prevail, and a deal will be reached much more quickly following Merkel's concessions.She emphasised that any involvement by private creditors would be \"explicitly voluntary\".A German parliament resolution last week underpinning her negotiating mandate in the EU stipulated that the German government could only agree to a new bailout \"if an appropriate involvement of private creditors is included\".The Germans hoped this latter would amount to one quarter of the slated \u20ac120bn, but the contribution could now be merely symbolic. As she has consistently done throughout the 18-month crisis, Merkel had been playing for time, initially hoping to put off a new bailout until September. After the summit in Berlin, she said: \"It's not about September. It's about the quickest possible solution.\"Finance ministers from the eurozone and the EU meet in Luxembourg on Sunday and on Monday, and could now hammer out a bailout deal to be blessed by a European summit on Thursday.Greece became the first eurozone country to require a bailout in May last year when the Europeans put together a \u20ac110bn package. That has failed amid escalating turmoil in Greece and growing resistance to the swingeing austerity programmes that were the price for the rescue.In a move offering further potential turmoil for the financial markets, the credit ratings agency Moody's said that it may cut Italy's sovereign credit rating from AA2, citing challenges ahead for economic growth due to structural weaknesses and a likely rise in interest rates. visit Luxembourg on Monday for talks with EU leaders who are anxious that the entire rescue scenario could still unravel because of his inability to deliver on a radical privatisation programme, spending cuts, and tax increases.Merkel's remarks came as the IMF warned that debt-ridden European countries were \"playing with fire\" unless they took immediate steps to reduce their budget deficits.The IMF, in its regular assessment of global economic prospects, said bigger threats to growth had emerged since its previous report in April, citing the eurozone debt crisis and signs of overheating in emerging market economies.The IMF also revised downwards its forecast for US growth, estimating GDP would grow a tepid 2.5% this year and 2.7% in 2012 compared with an expected 2.8% and 2.9% growth, respectively, two months ago.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Economics", "Global economy", "Greece", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Euro", "Euro", "European Union"], "title": "Germany retreats from battle over Greek bailout"},{"date": "2011-06-17T12:08:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has admitted defeat over Germany's plan to force private banks to contribute funds to a new bailout package designed to rescue the Greek economy.After a meeting with the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, in Berlin on Thursday, the German chancellor said they had agreed that any contribution from private creditors to the package would have to be voluntary.\"We want the participation of private creditors on a voluntary basis,\" said Merkel, stressing that there was no legal way in which banks could be forced to play along.Sarkozy welcomed Germany's change of position, describing it as \"a breakthrough\".Merkel and Sarkozy both declined to set a date for the Greek deal to be finalised. But Sarkozy indicated that time was running out. \"We want a quick fix \u2026 there is no time to waste,\" he said.The summit was well received by financial markets, which have fallen sharply in recent days as investors feared that Greece would suffer a disorderly default.In London the FTSE 100 index erased early losses, and the euro strengthened against other major currencies. Greek government bonds also staged a small recovery. The yield, or interest rate, on the two-year Greek bond dropped to 28.6%, from over 30% early on Friday.Merkel's admission was a significant climbdown from her earlier position. Berlin had lobbied noisily for the compulsory participation in a new Greek bailout of private lenders, many of whom stand to lose heavily if Greece defaults on its \u20ac300bn (\u00a3265bn) debts.Last year's first Greek bailout, part-funded by European taxpayers, was hugely unpopular in Germany, and Merkel was keen to send a message to voters that not just they, but also the banks, would be paying this time around.Earlier this month European Union finance ministers were said to be considering a plan in which private creditors possessing Greek state bonds would be asked to cover \u20ac20bn \u2013 \u20ac35bn of the costs .As Europe's paymaster, Germany had called for Greece's private creditors to swap their bonds for new ones with maturities that are seven years longer, but encountered fierce resistance to those plans from France, the European central bank and European commission. France in particular was adamant that trying to force private creditors into any Greek deal would be dangerous for the markets.On Thursday the head of the eurozone, Jean-Claude Juncker, said that imposing losses on investors could trigger a European version of the Lehman Brothers bank collapse \u2013 a so-called \"credit event\". \"It's a really ugly situation. The [German] idea is dangerous. It could provoke the gravest risk, that all three rating agencies declare a credit event and then there are big contagion risks for other countries,\" he said.Merkel's meeting with Sarkozy on Friday morning in Berlin was the first face-to-face meeting between the two leaders in seven very rocky months in Franco-German relations. On Wednesday the French ambassador to Germany, Maurice Gourdault-Montagne, told a select group of German journalists that Berlin pays too little attention to its ties with Paris.The ambassador suggested Merkel did not give Sarkozky enough face time, pointing out that the last chancellor, Gerhard Schr\u00f6der, agreed to more one-on-one meetings with his French counterpart when he was in power.But at Thursday's press conference at the chancellery, Sarkozy heralded a \"major breakthrough\" with \"our German friends\". In three hours of talks, he and Merkel had at least agreed that there ideally should be some involvement on the private sector in the Greece bailout, he said.The deal was based on four principles: voluntary participation, speed, no payment default and agreement with the European central bank. Both leaders also stressed that Greece had to comply with its obligations.The duo were keen to reach a consensus ahead of next week's EU summit in Brussels, which will see European leaders try to hammer out a Greek deal.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "World news", "Euro", "Currencies", "Business", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "Germany", "France", "Angela Merkel", "Nicolas Sarkozy"], "title": "Germany climbs down over Greece bailout demands"},{"date": "2011-06-13T17:44:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": " A small Muslim community in northern Germany is pioneering renewable energy sources by planning to build a mosque with wind turbines in its minarets.The \u20ac2.5m (\u00a32.2m) project would see the mosque in Norderstedt, near Hamburg, become one of the first to turn the minaret, the place from which the muezzin called the faithful to prayer, into a wind-fuelled power source.The eco-friendly building is the brainchild of the Hamburg architect Selcuk \u00dcnyilmaz, who has long incorporated energy efficiency into his work. \"I thought about how we could give sacral architecture an ecological focus,\" he said. \"My design combines the modern with the traditional, so I wanted to give the minarets a contemporary function.\"The wind turbines will be housed in two 22-metre-high minarets and \u00dcnyilmaz plans to install a pair of 1.5-metre glass rotor blades in each tower. At certain times of the day light will be beamed at the blades to create a kind of light show.Until now the 200-strong congregation, part of the Turkish-Islamic Union for Religious Affairs, has made do with a 100-year-old building ill-equipped to house a religious community. But last month local authorities approved plans for the project, which will measure about 1,300 sq metres and comprise two parts, the mosque and a larger building containing shops, travel agents, a cafe, hairdresser and offices.\"We want to create a meeting place for people from all religions and nationalities,\" Ugur S\u00fctc\u00fc, the chairman of the Norderstedt congregation, told the Hamburger Abendblatt newspaper. \"There will be advisory services on offer, as well as social, cultural and sporting activities.\"In order to persuade some of the more sceptical members of the congregation of the merits of his the design, \u00dcnyilmaz looked for other mosques with similar wind turbines. But he could not find any other examples that had already been built.The German mosque will not be the first of its kind, however, as the Islamic missionary group Tablighi Jamaat is also planning to build an environmentally friendly mosque with wind turbines in its minarets in time for the London 2012 Olympics.\u00dcnyilmaz's scheme has come at a fortuitous time. Germany has approved a 2022 exit from nuclear energy and there is pressure to make up the shortfall by boosting the renewable energy sector.The community in Norderstedt might be in tune with the energy zeitgeist but is does not yet have funds for the project. However this is not something S\u00fctc\u00fc is too worried about. \"We are confident that we can raise the money,\" he said.The coastal town is perfectly situated for wind energy production, and the minarets will help cover the building's overheads, providing about a third of its energy. \u00dcnyilmaz said that was one of the reasons he opted for turbines instead of solar panels, which would not produce electricity at night. \"We are in the north and I don't think there's a day here that isn't windy,\" he said.", "tags": ["Germany", "Wind power", "Renewable energy", "Islam", "Energy", "Architecture", "Religion", "World news", "Europe", "Environment", "Art and design"], "title": "Eco-friendly mosque planned for Germany"},{"date": "2011-05-30T18:18:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has committed to shutting down all of the country's nuclear reactors by 2022, a task said by one minister to be as mammoth as the project to reunite East and West Germany in 1990.Monday's announcement, prompted by Japan's nuclear disaster, will make Germany the first major industrialised nation to go nuclear-free in decades. It gives the country just over 10 years to find alternative sources for 23% of its energy.The move, hammered out at a mammoth 14-hour overnight sitting at the Kanzleramt, came amid mass nationwide protests against nuclear power and at a low point for the chancellor's Christian Democratic party (CDU), support for which has crumbled at the ballot box in five regional elections this year.Although the proposal was welcomed among the general population, who have long been opposed to nuclear power, it was a move derided by one of Merkel's own MPs as \"knee-jerk politics\".The plan is to keep shut eight reactors which were suspended in March in the immediate aftermath of the Fukushima disaster, and to close the rest by 2022.The phase-out must be ratified in parliament and is likely to face strong opposition from utility companies. On Monday a spokesman for the energy giant RWE said that \"all legal options\" were on the table.Last week, grid operators warned the phase-out could result in winter blackouts \u2013 a prospect Merkel scoffed at . She insisted the decision would not lead to Germany simply importing nuclear power.\"We will generate our own electricity from other sources,\" the chancellor told a press conference in Berlin. She said the plans would give Germany a chance to be a \"trailblazer\" for renewable energy, suggesting it could eventually earn, rather than cost, the country money.Energy firms warned that the decision \u2013 a total policy reversal \u2013 would require significant investment in energy infrastructure. Philipp R\u00f6sler, new head of the FDP party, which rules in coalition with the CDU, agreed, likening the task ahead to that which faced Germany in 1990 after reunification. A study in 2009 showed that \u20ac1.3 trillion (\u00a31.1tn) had been transferred from the West to rebuild the East.This comparison was also made in an editorial by the left-leaning Tageszeitung newspaper on Monday, which said Merkel's decision was \"historic\" and \"a moment like the fall of the Berlin Wall\".The government's vocabulary seemed to consciously echo the reunification process, with Merkel heralding an \"Energie-Wende\" \u2013 \"die Wende\" is the word for change which became shorthand for the fall of communism and reunification.Die Welt, a conservative daily, said the policy U-turn demonstrated a \"creeping rejection of the economic model which has transformed Germany into one of the richest countries in the world\".The French poured scorn on Germany's decision. \"Germany will be even more dependent on fossil fuels and imports and its electricity will be more expensive and polluting,\" said the French industry minister, \u00c9ric Besson. German households pay twice as much for power than homes in France, where 80% of electricity comes from atomic plants, he said.Germany last year was a net exporter of power to France, according to data from the French grid operator, RTE. This trend was reversed last month after the accident at Fukushima and Merkel's decision to halt Germany's oldest reactors.\"Germany's energy policy will only work if there are improvements at the same time,\" the EU energy commissioner, G\u00fcnther Oettinger, said on Monday.He said there was a need for better grid infrastructure, storage capacity and forward planning as well as a more pronounced rise in renewable supply.Germany plans to cut electricity usage by 10% and double the share of renewable energy to 25% by 2020.Merkel first mooted an accelerated exit from nuclear power within days of the Fukushima meltdown, ordering a three-month \"moratorium\" during which nuclear power could be debated.It was a remarkable U-turn. In September 2010, she had committed to extending the lives of Germany's 17 nuclear plants.Many of her party are unhappy with her handling of the situation.\"Knee-jerk politics like the reaction to Fukushima does not pay dividends,\" said Mike Mohring, the head of the CDU faction in the Thuringian state parliament, last week.Among other G8 nations, only Italy has abandoned nuclear power.\u2022 This article was amended on 31 May 2011. The original said that the 14-hour overnight sitting was held at the Bundestag. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Nuclear power", "Energy", "Environment", "Nuclear waste", "Japan disaster"], "title": "Germany to shut all nuclear reactors"},{"date": "2011-05-24T17:01:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Born in London from German parents, Frederick Voigt was the Manchester Guardian correspondent in Germany from 1920 to 1933.Voigt was one of the most important of the newspaper's foreign team in the 30s, becoming famous for exposing the threat of the Nazi regime.", "tags": ["Newspapers", "National newspapers", "Germany", "Adolf Hitler"], "title": "28 March 1933: The terror in Germany"},{"date": "2011-05-06T13:33:17Z", "country": "germany", "content": "One of the main benefits of being a citizen of the European Union is supposed to be the freedom to live and work in any country within its borders with no restrictions. But when Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Slovakia, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia joined the EU in 2004, Germany and Austria opted to make use of the maximum seven-year transition period before granting the new member states' citizens full access to their labour market.That period has now expired: as of 1 May, Poles, Hungarians or Latvians can work in Germany and Austria without any restrictions whatsoever. The questions are: how many will want to? And how will the new reality affect the respective countries' economies?Estimates vary as to how many Poles will eventually leave the country, but one thing everybody agrees on is that Poles will make up the largest number of the new wave of central and eastern European economic migrants. And most of them will be heading for Germany and not Austria or Switzerland, which also opened up its labour markets to the EU8 on 1 May. The European Commission predicts about 100,000 people a year will move to Germany from the CEE countries, half of them from Poland. The Polish government itself is expecting more than 400,000 Poles to leave for Germany within the next three years.The Germans say they need the fresh blood in their thriving economy. \"We really need workers. We don't lack jobs, but labour,\" said Ursula von der Leyen, the German labour minister, a few days before 1 May. She also promised Germans that the workers coming would be mostly young, educated and mobile.The likelihood of hundreds of thousands of Poles flocking to Germany in the next few years is doubtful. Ironically, Germany's labour restrictions, while meant to prevent an influx of low-skilled, cheap labour, were actually more of a hindrance to highly qualified professionals. Blue-collar workers who set up their own one-man businesses in trades such as bricklaying have been able to work in Germany legally for several years now: all they needed in order to register a one-man business was a German address and the German equivalent of a national insurance number. In other words, the low-skilled workers who really wanted to work in Germany are already there.White-collar workers, on the other hand, have faced harsher employment restrictions. If, for example, a German firm wanted to employ a Polish accountant, the firm had to prove there were no Germans capable of the job before it could secure a work permit. Some of these restrictions were relaxed a few years ago for particular professions where there was a real lack of workers in Germany, such as engineers or IT specialists, but restrictions remained in most professions.After the 2004 accession, skilled Polish migrants mainly went to countries that opened up their labour markets immediately, such as the UK, Sweden and Ireland. Germany largely missed the opportunity to attract such workers.Another reason Poles won't necessarily flock to Germany is that Poland in 2011 is very different from Poland in 2004. According to IMF figures its GDP per capita now stands at more than $18,000 (\u00a311,000) as opposed to about $11,000 seven years ago. The economy has grown steadily since accession and so have wages. In fact, the World Bank now classifies Poland as a \"high-income country\". Of course, salaries are still much higher in Germany but they are now roughly three times higher, not six or seven times higher like in the past. And one must remember that life in Germany is decidedly more expensive than in Poland.Talking to the president of a major Polish construction company recently, I mentioned the fear that Germany would suck in all of Poland's best workers. That's what everyone said before the 2004 accession, he said: \"But where are all those rich Germans today?\"Will some of the Poles and other eastern Europeans currently living in the UK and Ireland leave those countries and move to the thriving Germany? An April report by the British thinktank, the National Institute of Economic and Social Research (NIESR) says the lifting of barriers could drive some eastern European workers away to Germany, but the report does not expect that number to be significant.Germany sent the wrong signals to young, educated and mobile Poles immediately after the 2004 accession. The engineers, IT specialists and qualified medical personnel it now seeks left Poland for other countries years ago. And if those scattered around the continent do decide to pack up and leave the countries they are currently residing in, it is more likely they will be boarding a plane headed for Warsaw rather than for Berlin.", "tags": ["Poland", "Germany", "European Union", "Europe", "Global economy", "Migration and development", "Business", "Global development", "World news"], "title": "Germany has lost its lure for Poles | Remi Adekoya"},{"date": "2011-04-22T13:00:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It would have caused a chuckle among British tabloid readers. In Germany (and Greece) it caused a storm. On February 22 2010, the German news magazine Focus published a cover that depicted the Aphrodite of Milos with an outstretched arm making a very rude gesture at its readers. The caption \u2013 \"Cheats in our euro-family\" \u2013 was clearly directed at Greece, which was just then negotiating a \u20ac110bn bailout package with its eurozone partners. Now a group of Greeks is suing Focus for defamation.The Focus cover illustrated how much Germany's traditionally staid and politically correct media landscape has changed. More importantly, it represented a shift of German attitudes away from unquestioning support for European integration towards a more hard-nosed attitude towards the EU.Focus was not alone. The German press coverage of the eurozone crisis has ranged from the doubtful to the visceral. Bild Zeitung, the country's biggest and most influential tabloid, revelled in stories about Greeks retiring at 50 and dodging their taxes. \"We give you cash, you give us Corfu\", ran one headline that particularly upset the Greeks. Even sober and serious broadsheets such as Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung ran articles and interviews that left Germans confused about the sacrifices they are making for their broke neighbours. Instead of explaining that Greece, Ireland and Portugal are receiving bilaterally guaranteed loans (at interest rates that benefit the lenders), the media have portrayed the bailouts as a straight cash transfer: education, pensions and social benefits in Germany would suffer as a result.Is the German attitude towards Europe turning nasty? The current sense of frustration in Germany is worrying, and in many ways unjustified (Germany itself has contributed to the crisis). But some offensive and distorting media coverage does not mean that Germany is turning unequivocally Eurosceptic.Germany has never had a proper debate about its membership in the EU before. When I grew up there, all political parties were staunch supporters of European integration. Governments would be happy to pay extra deutschmarks to achieve the EU-wide compromises to make such integration possible. Newspaper editors and TV commentators hardly ever talked about the costs and benefits of Germany's EU membership. German people were not asked whether they wanted to give up their currency or admit former communist countries into the EU. It was assumed that what was good for Europe was good for Germany.So Germany's European debate is overdue \u2013 it is just unfortunate that this debate starts at a time when the eurozone crisis has whipped up a nasty sense of indignation. Like a currency that has been fixed for too long, Germany's European debate now overshoots. My hunch is that once the debate calms down and matures, the Germans will decide that European integration and solidarity is still very much in their interest.This does not mean, however, that Berlin will ever go back to the unquestioning support of integration and chequebook diplomacy of old. Several underlying trends mean that henceforth Europe has to cope with a new German reality.First, Germany is now run by a group of leaders with no living memory of the horrors of the second world war. Defeated postwar Germany could have a foreign policy only as part of a European club or a western alliance. Today, many Germans think they have paid their historical dues. For the generation of Helmut Kohl, Europe was a matter of war and peace; for Chancellor Merkel and most of her contemporaries, it is a question of costs and benefits.Second, Germany used to be a frontline state in the cold war. Membership in the EU and Nato was a matter of survival. Following the eastward enlargement of both organisations, Germany is now surrounded by friends and it can define its national interest differently. Also, the fact that the EU now consists of 27 very diverse nations means there is no \"EU interest\" with which Germany could easily align.Germany's European debate is not all negative. There are just as many voices calling on Merkel to take a more enlightened approach to European leadership and invest in the euro's future. The backlash against the euro has finally forced Germany's politicians, columnists and business leaders to explain the many benefits that Germany has reaped from European integration. For Germany to become a \"normal\" country in Europe will mean acting in a way that befits its historic legacy, economic power and new responsibilities. It will be a few years before Germans figure out how to do this well. In the meantime, expect some upsetting headlines and diplomatic faux-pas.", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe", "Eurozone crisis", "Business", "European monetary union"], "title": "Is Germany flipping the bird at Europe? | Katinka Barysch"},{"date": "2011-04-04T08:59:30Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The King's Speech has become a surprise smash in Germany, where it has been the No 1 film at the box office for weeks.Tom Hooper's Oscar-winning film centres on the battle of Colin Firth's King George VI to overcome a debilitating stammer as Britain faces the imminent prospect of war with the Third Reich. The film also examines the abdication of Edward VIII, a well-known Nazi sympathiser who was seen as such a security risk that he was sent to the Bahamas with new wife Wallis Simpson for the duration of the conflict.However, Peter Heinzemann, managing director of the film's German distributor Senator Film Verleih, said Germans were more interested in the story of personal triumph at the heart of The King's Speech than its historical content. He also cited the film's Oscars success \u2013 it took four Academy Awards last month \u2013 as a defining factor in the drama's lure for cinemagoers.\"The great success of the film lies, in my opinion, in the terrific and emotional story more than anything else,\" Heinzemann told Variety. \"Audiences can identify with this heir to the throne because this admired and respected person suffers like anyone else from an impediment.\"Hooper's film has so far taken $17.3m (\u00a310.7m), to add to a spectacular total of $374m worldwide, a remarkable figure for an independent British film with a budget of just $15m. Had it been released in January, rather than the tail end of December in the US, it would currently be the highest grossing film of 2011 worldwide, easily outperforming The Green Hornet's $227m. In terms of British films, only 2008's Abba-themed Mamma Mia! has made more money in recent years. The King's Speech is about to surpass the $374m taken by Danny Boyle's Slumdog Millionaire, the last UK film to win big at the Oscars.", "tags": ["The King's Speech", "Film", "Film industry", "Culture"], "title": "The King's Speech resounds in Germany"},{"date": "2011-09-29T12:17:58Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has successfully corralled her government into voting for the revamped euro bailout fund, asserting her authority as chancellor by pushing through the bill without needing to rely on opposition help.Of 611 MPs present in a highly-charged sitting at the Bundestag on Thursday morning, 523 voted in favour of expanding the powers of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF).Under the plan, the EFSF will be enlarged to \u20ac440bn (\u00a3382bn). It will also be given the ability to give \"precautionary loans\" to struggling European countries, buy EU government debt, and provide funding to shore up the capital reserves of European banks.The result was a triumph for Germany's shaky coalition government and marked a major step towards tackling the eurozone's sprawling sovereign debt crisis. Some analysts, though, argue that more radical measures will be needed.Eighty-five voted against the motion, including 10 from Merkel's own Christian Democratic bloc and three from the Free Democratic party (FDP), the chancellor's coalition partners. Most of the \"no\" voters belonged to the far-left Linke party, who believe the bailout fund will make banks richer and ordinary Europeans poorer.Only three MPs abstained, meaning that Germany in the future will be guaranteeing loans to the EFSF of up to \u20ac211bn, rather than \u20ac123bn so far. Just a month ago, test votes suggested up to 25 coalition MPs were planning to rebel after polls showed three-quarters of Germans opposed the bill.Had Merkel failed to pass the vote without relying on support from opposition MPs from the Social Democratic (SPD) and Green parties, many analysts believed her position would have been untenable and the coalition would have collapsed.Yet after a night of intense lobbying, a majority of coalition members \u2013 315 \u2013 voted in favour of the measure, enough to have ensured its passage even without opposition help.\"This shows the clear determination of the coalition on this issue,\" Rainer Br\u00fcderle, parliamentary leader of Merkel's junior partner, the Free Democrats, told the n-tv broadcaster after the vote. \"We have made an important decision for Europe.\"Yet Frank Sch\u00e4ffler, also of the Free Democrats, argued that bailout measures had worsened Greece's economic situation.\"Despite all arguments, the first bailout did not make the situation for Greece better, but worse,\" Sch\u00e4ffler said. \"Expanding the fund will make the situation even worse.\"Though Merkel described the euro before the vote as \"our common future\" and said approving the beefed-up bailout fund was \"of the very, very greatest significance\", discussions went deep into the night Wednesday, in an attempt to win over dissenting members of her governing coalition.On Wednesday, Finland voted in favour of expanding the fund's powers despite earlier threats to pull out of a rescue plan for Greece. The fund expansion has to be ratified by all 17 eurozone nations to take force.Germany's upper house of parliament is expected to pass the measure on Friday.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "European banks", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany backs revamped euro bailout fund"},{"date": "2011-09-29T12:17:58Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has successfully corralled her government into voting for the revamped euro bailout fund, asserting her authority as chancellor by pushing through the bill without needing to rely on opposition help.Of 611 MPs present in a highly-charged sitting at the Bundestag on Thursday morning, 523 voted in favour of expanding the powers of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF).Under the plan, the EFSF will be enlarged to \u20ac440bn (\u00a3382bn). It will also be given the ability to give \"precautionary loans\" to struggling European countries, buy EU government debt, and provide funding to shore up the capital reserves of European banks.The result was a triumph for Germany's shaky coalition government and marked a major step towards tackling the eurozone's sprawling sovereign debt crisis. Some analysts, though, argue that more radical measures will be needed.Eighty-five voted against the motion, including 10 from Merkel's own Christian Democratic bloc and three from the Free Democratic party (FDP), the chancellor's coalition partners. Most of the \"no\" voters belonged to the far-left Linke party, who believe the bailout fund will make banks richer and ordinary Europeans poorer.Only three MPs abstained, meaning that Germany in the future will be guaranteeing loans to the EFSF of up to \u20ac211bn, rather than \u20ac123bn so far. Just a month ago, test votes suggested up to 25 coalition MPs were planning to rebel after polls showed three-quarters of Germans opposed the bill.Had Merkel failed to pass the vote without relying on support from opposition MPs from the Social Democratic (SPD) and Green parties, many analysts believed her position would have been untenable and the coalition would have collapsed.Yet after a night of intense lobbying, a majority of coalition members \u2013 315 \u2013 voted in favour of the measure, enough to have ensured its passage even without opposition help.\"This shows the clear determination of the coalition on this issue,\" Rainer Br\u00fcderle, parliamentary leader of Merkel's junior partner, the Free Democrats, told the n-tv broadcaster after the vote. \"We have made an important decision for Europe.\"Yet Frank Sch\u00e4ffler, also of the Free Democrats, argued that bailout measures had worsened Greece's economic situation.\"Despite all arguments, the first bailout did not make the situation for Greece better, but worse,\" Sch\u00e4ffler said. \"Expanding the fund will make the situation even worse.\"Though Merkel described the euro before the vote as \"our common future\" and said approving the beefed-up bailout fund was \"of the very, very greatest significance\", discussions went deep into the night Wednesday, in an attempt to win over dissenting members of her governing coalition.On Wednesday, Finland voted in favour of expanding the fund's powers despite earlier threats to pull out of a rescue plan for Greece. The fund expansion has to be ratified by all 17 eurozone nations to take force.Germany's upper house of parliament is expected to pass the measure on Friday.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "European banks", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany backs revamped euro bailout fund"},{"date": "2011-08-24T16:56:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany is known for many things: reliable cars, punctual trains, a national reluctance to cross the road if the lights are on red. Comedy, though, not so much.Yet the country's reaction this week to the death of its most beloved postwar comic, aged 87, shows that Germans do indeed take their humour very seriously.It is a measure of the devotion inspired by Loriot that when his death was announced the foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, told journalists at a press conference on Libya that he would take questions on the comic only after he had answered all Gaddafi-related queries.Loriot \u2013 real name Bernhard Victor Christoph-Carl von B\u00fclow, better known as Vicco von B\u00fclow \u2013 was a national treasure who combined the eloquence and linguistic dexterity of a Stephen Fry with a Peter Sellers-style sense of the absurd. Pretty much every German newspaper on Wednesday carried a picture of him on the front page, or one of his cartoons, rather than an image from the battle for Tripoli.\"Thank you for the laughter\" was the headline in the tabloid Bild. \"Through him, Germans learned to laugh\", said die Tageszeitung. \"What did Germans laugh about before Loriot came long? Nothing.\"A graphic designer by trade, von B\u00fclow started sketching cartoons in 1950 under the pseudonym Loriot. Having spent three years as a Wehrmacht soldier fighting on the eastern front, Loriot returned to a Germany very different to the one he had left. The cities were still reduced to rubble; families had been ripped apart. There was very little to laugh about.By the time his first cartoons appeared, in magazines such as Stern and Quick, Germany had divided into two. Though he was born in the eastern state of Brandenburg, it was in West Germany that Loriot found fame and his eponymous TV sketch show between 1976 and 1978 was a career high point, with its hugely popular mixture of straight-faced slapstick and wry jokes touching on key German stereotypes.Loriot was particularly good at poking fun at the German devotion to formality and earnestness. One of his most famous animations featured Herr M\u00fcller L\u00fcdenscheid and Herr Doktor Kl\u00f6bner, two naked men sitting in a hotel bath.The cartoon begins with the former saying, \"I don't wish to appear rude, but I would really like to be alone.\" The latter answers: \"Who on earth are you?\" The two then introduce themselves, with full honorifics. Herr M\u00fcller L\u00fcdenscheid then says: \"Would you mind telling me what you are doing in my bath?\" To which the other man replies: \"I was down in the basement ping pong room and got my room number mixed up.\" And on it goes.In one TV skit, Loriot is on a plane, chatting up an attractive younger woman, played by his long-term sidekick, Evelyn Hamann (who died in 2007). The two have a tremendously highfalutin conversation, quoting their favourite Rilke poems while struggling with the logistics of eating elegantly on an aeroplane.In another popular sketch, (here with subtitles) a group of distinguished adults are taking a class at the Modern Institute of Yodelling. In one famous line, a lady is asked by a radio journalist why she, as a woman, has been so keen to gain her yodelling diploma. \"I think, of all people, a housewife with children should have vocational qualifications. Then, when the time comes, and your grown-up children go away or anything happens, then after two years at yodelling school I will have my yodelling diploma.\"Loriot's trademark was his poker face. He once told Die Zeit: \"You will not see laughter in any of my films. Nowhere. The audience should be the ones laughing.\"German for ForeignersGrocery ShoppingThe NoodleThe Picture Isn't Hanging StraightSee if you can crack the German sense of humour by watching this video and reading the transcript below.Him: Berta!Her: Yes ...Him: The egg is hard!Her: [silence]Him: The egg is hard!!!Her: I heard you ...Him: How long did the egg cook for?Her: You always want them to be cooked for four and a half minutes ...Him: I know ...Her: So why are you asking?Him: Because this egg cannot have been cooked for four and a half minutes!Her: But every morning I cook your egg for four and a half minutes.Him: So why is it sometimes too hard and sometimes too soft?Her: I don't know! I'm not a chicken.Him: Ach. So how do you know when an egg is ready?Her: I take it out of the water after four and a half minutes, my God.Him: You use a clock or what?Her: Intuition. A housewife just has a feeling.Him: A feeling? You have a feeling?Her: I just feel it when the egg is ready.Him: But it's hard ... maybe your feelings aren't quite right.Her: My feelings aren't right? I'm in the kitchen all day, doing washing, sorting out your things, making the flat homely, getting irritated with the children under my feet, and you're telling me my feelings aren't right?Him: Yes, yes. Yes. Yes. If you cook an egg using your intuition then, if it does cook for exactly four and a half minutes, that will be a coincidence.Her: It shouldn't matter to you whether the egg coincidentally cooks for four and a half minutes. The main thing is that it cooks for four and a half minutes!Him: I would simply like a soft boiled egg and not a coincidentally soft egg. I don't care how long it cooks for!Her: Aha! You don't care. So you don't care if I slave for four and a half minutes in the kitchen!Him: No \u2013 noHer: But it does matter. The egg must be cooked for four and a half minutesHim: That's what I said!Her: But you just said you didn't care!Him: I only wanted a soft boiled egg ...Her: God, men are primitive.Him: [grim faced] I'll kill her. Tomorrow, I'll kill her", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany mourns king of comedy Loriot"},{"date": "2011-09-29T12:17:58Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has successfully corralled her government into voting for the revamped euro bailout fund, asserting her authority as chancellor by pushing through the bill without needing to rely on opposition help.Of 611 MPs present in a highly-charged sitting at the Bundestag on Thursday morning, 523 voted in favour of expanding the powers of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF).Under the plan, the EFSF will be enlarged to \u20ac440bn (\u00a3382bn). It will also be given the ability to give \"precautionary loans\" to struggling European countries, buy EU government debt, and provide funding to shore up the capital reserves of European banks.The result was a triumph for Germany's shaky coalition government and marked a major step towards tackling the eurozone's sprawling sovereign debt crisis. Some analysts, though, argue that more radical measures will be needed.Eighty-five voted against the motion, including 10 from Merkel's own Christian Democratic bloc and three from the Free Democratic party (FDP), the chancellor's coalition partners. Most of the \"no\" voters belonged to the far-left Linke party, who believe the bailout fund will make banks richer and ordinary Europeans poorer.Only three MPs abstained, meaning that Germany in the future will be guaranteeing loans to the EFSF of up to \u20ac211bn, rather than \u20ac123bn so far. Just a month ago, test votes suggested up to 25 coalition MPs were planning to rebel after polls showed three-quarters of Germans opposed the bill.Had Merkel failed to pass the vote without relying on support from opposition MPs from the Social Democratic (SPD) and Green parties, many analysts believed her position would have been untenable and the coalition would have collapsed.Yet after a night of intense lobbying, a majority of coalition members \u2013 315 \u2013 voted in favour of the measure, enough to have ensured its passage even without opposition help.\"This shows the clear determination of the coalition on this issue,\" Rainer Br\u00fcderle, parliamentary leader of Merkel's junior partner, the Free Democrats, told the n-tv broadcaster after the vote. \"We have made an important decision for Europe.\"Yet Frank Sch\u00e4ffler, also of the Free Democrats, argued that bailout measures had worsened Greece's economic situation.\"Despite all arguments, the first bailout did not make the situation for Greece better, but worse,\" Sch\u00e4ffler said. \"Expanding the fund will make the situation even worse.\"Though Merkel described the euro before the vote as \"our common future\" and said approving the beefed-up bailout fund was \"of the very, very greatest significance\", discussions went deep into the night Wednesday, in an attempt to win over dissenting members of her governing coalition.On Wednesday, Finland voted in favour of expanding the fund's powers despite earlier threats to pull out of a rescue plan for Greece. The fund expansion has to be ratified by all 17 eurozone nations to take force.Germany's upper house of parliament is expected to pass the measure on Friday.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "European banks", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany backs revamped euro bailout fund"},{"date": "2011-08-24T16:56:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany is known for many things: reliable cars, punctual trains, a national reluctance to cross the road if the lights are on red. Comedy, though, not so much.Yet the country's reaction this week to the death of its most beloved postwar comic, aged 87, shows that Germans do indeed take their humour very seriously.It is a measure of the devotion inspired by Loriot that when his death was announced the foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, told journalists at a press conference on Libya that he would take questions on the comic only after he had answered all Gaddafi-related queries.Loriot \u2013 real name Bernhard Victor Christoph-Carl von B\u00fclow, better known as Vicco von B\u00fclow \u2013 was a national treasure who combined the eloquence and linguistic dexterity of a Stephen Fry with a Peter Sellers-style sense of the absurd. Pretty much every German newspaper on Wednesday carried a picture of him on the front page, or one of his cartoons, rather than an image from the battle for Tripoli.\"Thank you for the laughter\" was the headline in the tabloid Bild. \"Through him, Germans learned to laugh\", said die Tageszeitung. \"What did Germans laugh about before Loriot came long? Nothing.\"A graphic designer by trade, von B\u00fclow started sketching cartoons in 1950 under the pseudonym Loriot. Having spent three years as a Wehrmacht soldier fighting on the eastern front, Loriot returned to a Germany very different to the one he had left. The cities were still reduced to rubble; families had been ripped apart. There was very little to laugh about.By the time his first cartoons appeared, in magazines such as Stern and Quick, Germany had divided into two. Though he was born in the eastern state of Brandenburg, it was in West Germany that Loriot found fame and his eponymous TV sketch show between 1976 and 1978 was a career high point, with its hugely popular mixture of straight-faced slapstick and wry jokes touching on key German stereotypes.Loriot was particularly good at poking fun at the German devotion to formality and earnestness. One of his most famous animations featured Herr M\u00fcller L\u00fcdenscheid and Herr Doktor Kl\u00f6bner, two naked men sitting in a hotel bath.The cartoon begins with the former saying, \"I don't wish to appear rude, but I would really like to be alone.\" The latter answers: \"Who on earth are you?\" The two then introduce themselves, with full honorifics. Herr M\u00fcller L\u00fcdenscheid then says: \"Would you mind telling me what you are doing in my bath?\" To which the other man replies: \"I was down in the basement ping pong room and got my room number mixed up.\" And on it goes.In one TV skit, Loriot is on a plane, chatting up an attractive younger woman, played by his long-term sidekick, Evelyn Hamann (who died in 2007). The two have a tremendously highfalutin conversation, quoting their favourite Rilke poems while struggling with the logistics of eating elegantly on an aeroplane.In another popular sketch, (here with subtitles) a group of distinguished adults are taking a class at the Modern Institute of Yodelling. In one famous line, a lady is asked by a radio journalist why she, as a woman, has been so keen to gain her yodelling diploma. \"I think, of all people, a housewife with children should have vocational qualifications. Then, when the time comes, and your grown-up children go away or anything happens, then after two years at yodelling school I will have my yodelling diploma.\"Loriot's trademark was his poker face. He once told Die Zeit: \"You will not see laughter in any of my films. Nowhere. The audience should be the ones laughing.\"German for ForeignersGrocery ShoppingThe NoodleThe Picture Isn't Hanging StraightSee if you can crack the German sense of humour by watching this video and reading the transcript below.Him: Berta!Her: Yes ...Him: The egg is hard!Her: [silence]Him: The egg is hard!!!Her: I heard you ...Him: How long did the egg cook for?Her: You always want them to be cooked for four and a half minutes ...Him: I know ...Her: So why are you asking?Him: Because this egg cannot have been cooked for four and a half minutes!Her: But every morning I cook your egg for four and a half minutes.Him: So why is it sometimes too hard and sometimes too soft?Her: I don't know! I'm not a chicken.Him: Ach. So how do you know when an egg is ready?Her: I take it out of the water after four and a half minutes, my God.Him: You use a clock or what?Her: Intuition. A housewife just has a feeling.Him: A feeling? You have a feeling?Her: I just feel it when the egg is ready.Him: But it's hard ... maybe your feelings aren't quite right.Her: My feelings aren't right? I'm in the kitchen all day, doing washing, sorting out your things, making the flat homely, getting irritated with the children under my feet, and you're telling me my feelings aren't right?Him: Yes, yes. Yes. Yes. If you cook an egg using your intuition then, if it does cook for exactly four and a half minutes, that will be a coincidence.Her: It shouldn't matter to you whether the egg coincidentally cooks for four and a half minutes. The main thing is that it cooks for four and a half minutes!Him: I would simply like a soft boiled egg and not a coincidentally soft egg. I don't care how long it cooks for!Her: Aha! You don't care. So you don't care if I slave for four and a half minutes in the kitchen!Him: No \u2013 noHer: But it does matter. The egg must be cooked for four and a half minutesHim: That's what I said!Her: But you just said you didn't care!Him: I only wanted a soft boiled egg ...Her: God, men are primitive.Him: [grim faced] I'll kill her. Tomorrow, I'll kill her", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany mourns king of comedy Loriot"},{"date": "2011-08-09T19:56:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "This is what Angela Merkel did not want to see: markets pricing up the cost to Germany of saving the euro.That is what seemed to be happening as the cost of insuring German and French bonds against default rose sharply. The price for German insurance has doubled since the start of July \u2013 it now costs \u20ac91,000 to insure \u20ac10m of five-year German bonds, which is close to the peak price seen during the banking turmoil of early 2009.The German chancellor's view, one can guess, is that markets are barking up the wrong tree. Hasn't she made clear that Germany won't be providing endless funds to bank-roll the European Financial Stability Facility? Well, yes, she has. But the market can see that words and deeds don't exactly tally.The European Central Bank is doing the EFSF's work. It is buying Spanish and Italian bonds (and having an impact: the yields on the 10-year bond yields fell again on Tuesday) and seems to be acting politically. Italy and Spain succumbed to the ECB's detailed demands for restructuring of their economies and received a subsidy in the form of lower borrowing costs. That looks like a step towards fiscal union, a pan-euro Treasury and the issue of eurobonds.It has huge political implications. \"As it becomes clear that the principle of 'joint and several liability' for eurozone debts is now being enacted in direct contradiction to the Maastricht Treaty, we may now start to see a backlash in Germany,\" thinks Nick Parsons, strategist at National Australia Bank.Indeed, Otmar Issing, a former member of the ECB's executive board, was stirring the pot in the FT \u2013 \"to change the \"no bail-out\" clause ever more in the direction of a bailout regime is not a step towards a democratically legitimised political union,\" he thinks. Rather it's a step on \"a slippery road to a regime of fiscal indiscipline drowning hitherto solid countries in the morass of over-indebtedness\". That, one suspects, will be a popular line in Germany.Merkel's problems are mounting. Unfortunately for her, the market is asking legitimate questions in changing the price of bond insurance. If fiscal union becomes the only way to save the euro, Germany will have to take a hit; and if the eurozone breaks up, the cost could be even greater.", "tags": ["Business", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Euro", "Currencies", "Angela Merkel"], "title": "Germany takes a hit for saving euro"},{"date": "2011-09-29T12:17:58Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has successfully corralled her government into voting for the revamped euro bailout fund, asserting her authority as chancellor by pushing through the bill without needing to rely on opposition help.Of 611 MPs present in a highly-charged sitting at the Bundestag on Thursday morning, 523 voted in favour of expanding the powers of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF).Under the plan, the EFSF will be enlarged to \u20ac440bn (\u00a3382bn). It will also be given the ability to give \"precautionary loans\" to struggling European countries, buy EU government debt, and provide funding to shore up the capital reserves of European banks.The result was a triumph for Germany's shaky coalition government and marked a major step towards tackling the eurozone's sprawling sovereign debt crisis. Some analysts, though, argue that more radical measures will be needed.Eighty-five voted against the motion, including 10 from Merkel's own Christian Democratic bloc and three from the Free Democratic party (FDP), the chancellor's coalition partners. Most of the \"no\" voters belonged to the far-left Linke party, who believe the bailout fund will make banks richer and ordinary Europeans poorer.Only three MPs abstained, meaning that Germany in the future will be guaranteeing loans to the EFSF of up to \u20ac211bn, rather than \u20ac123bn so far. Just a month ago, test votes suggested up to 25 coalition MPs were planning to rebel after polls showed three-quarters of Germans opposed the bill.Had Merkel failed to pass the vote without relying on support from opposition MPs from the Social Democratic (SPD) and Green parties, many analysts believed her position would have been untenable and the coalition would have collapsed.Yet after a night of intense lobbying, a majority of coalition members \u2013 315 \u2013 voted in favour of the measure, enough to have ensured its passage even without opposition help.\"This shows the clear determination of the coalition on this issue,\" Rainer Br\u00fcderle, parliamentary leader of Merkel's junior partner, the Free Democrats, told the n-tv broadcaster after the vote. \"We have made an important decision for Europe.\"Yet Frank Sch\u00e4ffler, also of the Free Democrats, argued that bailout measures had worsened Greece's economic situation.\"Despite all arguments, the first bailout did not make the situation for Greece better, but worse,\" Sch\u00e4ffler said. \"Expanding the fund will make the situation even worse.\"Though Merkel described the euro before the vote as \"our common future\" and said approving the beefed-up bailout fund was \"of the very, very greatest significance\", discussions went deep into the night Wednesday, in an attempt to win over dissenting members of her governing coalition.On Wednesday, Finland voted in favour of expanding the fund's powers despite earlier threats to pull out of a rescue plan for Greece. The fund expansion has to be ratified by all 17 eurozone nations to take force.Germany's upper house of parliament is expected to pass the measure on Friday.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "European banks", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany backs revamped euro bailout fund"},{"date": "2011-08-24T16:56:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany is known for many things: reliable cars, punctual trains, a national reluctance to cross the road if the lights are on red. Comedy, though, not so much.Yet the country's reaction this week to the death of its most beloved postwar comic, aged 87, shows that Germans do indeed take their humour very seriously.It is a measure of the devotion inspired by Loriot that when his death was announced the foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, told journalists at a press conference on Libya that he would take questions on the comic only after he had answered all Gaddafi-related queries.Loriot \u2013 real name Bernhard Victor Christoph-Carl von B\u00fclow, better known as Vicco von B\u00fclow \u2013 was a national treasure who combined the eloquence and linguistic dexterity of a Stephen Fry with a Peter Sellers-style sense of the absurd. Pretty much every German newspaper on Wednesday carried a picture of him on the front page, or one of his cartoons, rather than an image from the battle for Tripoli.\"Thank you for the laughter\" was the headline in the tabloid Bild. \"Through him, Germans learned to laugh\", said die Tageszeitung. \"What did Germans laugh about before Loriot came long? Nothing.\"A graphic designer by trade, von B\u00fclow started sketching cartoons in 1950 under the pseudonym Loriot. Having spent three years as a Wehrmacht soldier fighting on the eastern front, Loriot returned to a Germany very different to the one he had left. The cities were still reduced to rubble; families had been ripped apart. There was very little to laugh about.By the time his first cartoons appeared, in magazines such as Stern and Quick, Germany had divided into two. Though he was born in the eastern state of Brandenburg, it was in West Germany that Loriot found fame and his eponymous TV sketch show between 1976 and 1978 was a career high point, with its hugely popular mixture of straight-faced slapstick and wry jokes touching on key German stereotypes.Loriot was particularly good at poking fun at the German devotion to formality and earnestness. One of his most famous animations featured Herr M\u00fcller L\u00fcdenscheid and Herr Doktor Kl\u00f6bner, two naked men sitting in a hotel bath.The cartoon begins with the former saying, \"I don't wish to appear rude, but I would really like to be alone.\" The latter answers: \"Who on earth are you?\" The two then introduce themselves, with full honorifics. Herr M\u00fcller L\u00fcdenscheid then says: \"Would you mind telling me what you are doing in my bath?\" To which the other man replies: \"I was down in the basement ping pong room and got my room number mixed up.\" And on it goes.In one TV skit, Loriot is on a plane, chatting up an attractive younger woman, played by his long-term sidekick, Evelyn Hamann (who died in 2007). The two have a tremendously highfalutin conversation, quoting their favourite Rilke poems while struggling with the logistics of eating elegantly on an aeroplane.In another popular sketch, (here with subtitles) a group of distinguished adults are taking a class at the Modern Institute of Yodelling. In one famous line, a lady is asked by a radio journalist why she, as a woman, has been so keen to gain her yodelling diploma. \"I think, of all people, a housewife with children should have vocational qualifications. Then, when the time comes, and your grown-up children go away or anything happens, then after two years at yodelling school I will have my yodelling diploma.\"Loriot's trademark was his poker face. He once told Die Zeit: \"You will not see laughter in any of my films. Nowhere. The audience should be the ones laughing.\"German for ForeignersGrocery ShoppingThe NoodleThe Picture Isn't Hanging StraightSee if you can crack the German sense of humour by watching this video and reading the transcript below.Him: Berta!Her: Yes ...Him: The egg is hard!Her: [silence]Him: The egg is hard!!!Her: I heard you ...Him: How long did the egg cook for?Her: You always want them to be cooked for four and a half minutes ...Him: I know ...Her: So why are you asking?Him: Because this egg cannot have been cooked for four and a half minutes!Her: But every morning I cook your egg for four and a half minutes.Him: So why is it sometimes too hard and sometimes too soft?Her: I don't know! I'm not a chicken.Him: Ach. So how do you know when an egg is ready?Her: I take it out of the water after four and a half minutes, my God.Him: You use a clock or what?Her: Intuition. A housewife just has a feeling.Him: A feeling? You have a feeling?Her: I just feel it when the egg is ready.Him: But it's hard ... maybe your feelings aren't quite right.Her: My feelings aren't right? I'm in the kitchen all day, doing washing, sorting out your things, making the flat homely, getting irritated with the children under my feet, and you're telling me my feelings aren't right?Him: Yes, yes. Yes. Yes. If you cook an egg using your intuition then, if it does cook for exactly four and a half minutes, that will be a coincidence.Her: It shouldn't matter to you whether the egg coincidentally cooks for four and a half minutes. The main thing is that it cooks for four and a half minutes!Him: I would simply like a soft boiled egg and not a coincidentally soft egg. I don't care how long it cooks for!Her: Aha! You don't care. So you don't care if I slave for four and a half minutes in the kitchen!Him: No \u2013 noHer: But it does matter. The egg must be cooked for four and a half minutesHim: That's what I said!Her: But you just said you didn't care!Him: I only wanted a soft boiled egg ...Her: God, men are primitive.Him: [grim faced] I'll kill her. Tomorrow, I'll kill her", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany mourns king of comedy Loriot"},{"date": "2011-08-09T19:56:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "This is what Angela Merkel did not want to see: markets pricing up the cost to Germany of saving the euro.That is what seemed to be happening as the cost of insuring German and French bonds against default rose sharply. The price for German insurance has doubled since the start of July \u2013 it now costs \u20ac91,000 to insure \u20ac10m of five-year German bonds, which is close to the peak price seen during the banking turmoil of early 2009.The German chancellor's view, one can guess, is that markets are barking up the wrong tree. Hasn't she made clear that Germany won't be providing endless funds to bank-roll the European Financial Stability Facility? Well, yes, she has. But the market can see that words and deeds don't exactly tally.The European Central Bank is doing the EFSF's work. It is buying Spanish and Italian bonds (and having an impact: the yields on the 10-year bond yields fell again on Tuesday) and seems to be acting politically. Italy and Spain succumbed to the ECB's detailed demands for restructuring of their economies and received a subsidy in the form of lower borrowing costs. That looks like a step towards fiscal union, a pan-euro Treasury and the issue of eurobonds.It has huge political implications. \"As it becomes clear that the principle of 'joint and several liability' for eurozone debts is now being enacted in direct contradiction to the Maastricht Treaty, we may now start to see a backlash in Germany,\" thinks Nick Parsons, strategist at National Australia Bank.Indeed, Otmar Issing, a former member of the ECB's executive board, was stirring the pot in the FT \u2013 \"to change the \"no bail-out\" clause ever more in the direction of a bailout regime is not a step towards a democratically legitimised political union,\" he thinks. Rather it's a step on \"a slippery road to a regime of fiscal indiscipline drowning hitherto solid countries in the morass of over-indebtedness\". That, one suspects, will be a popular line in Germany.Merkel's problems are mounting. Unfortunately for her, the market is asking legitimate questions in changing the price of bond insurance. If fiscal union becomes the only way to save the euro, Germany will have to take a hit; and if the eurozone breaks up, the cost could be even greater.", "tags": ["Business", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Euro", "Currencies", "Angela Merkel"], "title": "Germany takes a hit for saving euro"},{"date": "2011-07-24T16:58:23Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has announced that it will lend \u20ac100m to the Libyan opposition to ease a growing humanitarian crisis in rebel-controlled parts of the country.The \u00a388m loan to the national transitional council (NTC) was secured against frozen Libyan government funds. The money comes as the rebels struggle to pay for essentials, a fact that was exacerbated on Sunday when government missiles struck the oil tanks that fuel the besieged city of Misrata's power generators.\"We have decided to provide the NTC with urgently needed funding for civil and humanitarian measures,\" said the German foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, in a statement. \"People are suffering more and more from this, particularly in eastern Libya.\"Five months into the war, cash is running low and the rebels have tried and failed to get access to billions of dollars held in Libyan government accounts.The situation is most acute in Misrata, Libya's third largest city, whose only route to the outside world is by sea. The normally affluent city was well stocked with supplies when war broke out, with petrol tanks and grain silos full. But supplies are running low, along with the cash to pay for them.Prices for goods ranging from clothes to fruit have skyrocketed in recent weeks. \"You cannot pay for everything you need in Misrata now, you cannot pay for juice, the children must have fruit and we cannot pay for it,\" said Bashir Al Zawawi, a lecturer in business administration at Misrata University.On Sunday, one of the four giant tanks holding the city's oil supplies was hit by three grad rockets fired from government lines, leaving a huge pall of smoke over the city.The most acute shortages are felt in Misrata's battered hospitals. \"We have a shortage of everything,\" Dr Khalid Abufalgha, head of the city's health council, told the Guardian. \"We are receiving humanitarian aid but it is never enough.\"The rebels say Qatar, one of their key backers, has offered an \"air bridge\" to fly in food and medical supplies fly out wounded, but only when it is safe to land at the airport. Engineers have cleared the runway of debris and cannibalised wrecked machinery to provide fuel and power for landing planes, but the government frontlines are too near to make landings safe.\"We need this airport,\" said the airport's director, Abdul Hamid Garwash. \"From our side we're ready, but permission is needed from Nato.\"Earlier this month the NTC spokesman, Abdul Hafiz Ghoga, complained that promises of payments from western donors in May remained unfulfilled. Western officials counter that payments are being held up because the NTC is unable to present a fully transparent accountancy system to allow funds to be checked, and to guarantee that money earmarked for aid is not used for weapons.Nato remains outwardly confident that however bad things are for the rebels, they were worse for government forces, saying that weeks of bombing had inflicted significant damage on Muammar Gaddafi's Bab al-Aziziyah compound in Tripoli, where bombs reportedly hit early on Sunday morning.\"Gaddafi has for decades hidden from the Libyan people behind these walls,\" said Major General Nick Pope, spokesman for Britain's chief of the defence staff.The Gaddafi government insists it remains open to a negotiated solution to the war, with spokesman Moussa Ibrahim saying Libyan officials had a \"productive dialogue\" with US officials last week.Informal peace proposals will be canvassed this week by special UN envoy to Libya, Abdul Elah al-Khatib, a Jordanian senator. But the sticking point in any negotiations is likely to be the insistence of the US, UK, France and Russia that Gaddafi steps down as a precondition to talks, which Ibrahim said would be rejected.", "tags": ["Libya", "Middle East and North Africa", "Africa", "World news", "Germany", "Europe", "Muammar Gaddafi", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Nato", "United Nations"], "title": "Germany to lend \u20ac100m to Libyan rebels"},{"date": "2011-09-29T12:17:58Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has successfully corralled her government into voting for the revamped euro bailout fund, asserting her authority as chancellor by pushing through the bill without needing to rely on opposition help.Of 611 MPs present in a highly-charged sitting at the Bundestag on Thursday morning, 523 voted in favour of expanding the powers of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF).Under the plan, the EFSF will be enlarged to \u20ac440bn (\u00a3382bn). It will also be given the ability to give \"precautionary loans\" to struggling European countries, buy EU government debt, and provide funding to shore up the capital reserves of European banks.The result was a triumph for Germany's shaky coalition government and marked a major step towards tackling the eurozone's sprawling sovereign debt crisis. Some analysts, though, argue that more radical measures will be needed.Eighty-five voted against the motion, including 10 from Merkel's own Christian Democratic bloc and three from the Free Democratic party (FDP), the chancellor's coalition partners. Most of the \"no\" voters belonged to the far-left Linke party, who believe the bailout fund will make banks richer and ordinary Europeans poorer.Only three MPs abstained, meaning that Germany in the future will be guaranteeing loans to the EFSF of up to \u20ac211bn, rather than \u20ac123bn so far. Just a month ago, test votes suggested up to 25 coalition MPs were planning to rebel after polls showed three-quarters of Germans opposed the bill.Had Merkel failed to pass the vote without relying on support from opposition MPs from the Social Democratic (SPD) and Green parties, many analysts believed her position would have been untenable and the coalition would have collapsed.Yet after a night of intense lobbying, a majority of coalition members \u2013 315 \u2013 voted in favour of the measure, enough to have ensured its passage even without opposition help.\"This shows the clear determination of the coalition on this issue,\" Rainer Br\u00fcderle, parliamentary leader of Merkel's junior partner, the Free Democrats, told the n-tv broadcaster after the vote. \"We have made an important decision for Europe.\"Yet Frank Sch\u00e4ffler, also of the Free Democrats, argued that bailout measures had worsened Greece's economic situation.\"Despite all arguments, the first bailout did not make the situation for Greece better, but worse,\" Sch\u00e4ffler said. \"Expanding the fund will make the situation even worse.\"Though Merkel described the euro before the vote as \"our common future\" and said approving the beefed-up bailout fund was \"of the very, very greatest significance\", discussions went deep into the night Wednesday, in an attempt to win over dissenting members of her governing coalition.On Wednesday, Finland voted in favour of expanding the fund's powers despite earlier threats to pull out of a rescue plan for Greece. The fund expansion has to be ratified by all 17 eurozone nations to take force.Germany's upper house of parliament is expected to pass the measure on Friday.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "European banks", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany backs revamped euro bailout fund"},{"date": "2011-08-24T16:56:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany is known for many things: reliable cars, punctual trains, a national reluctance to cross the road if the lights are on red. Comedy, though, not so much.Yet the country's reaction this week to the death of its most beloved postwar comic, aged 87, shows that Germans do indeed take their humour very seriously.It is a measure of the devotion inspired by Loriot that when his death was announced the foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, told journalists at a press conference on Libya that he would take questions on the comic only after he had answered all Gaddafi-related queries.Loriot \u2013 real name Bernhard Victor Christoph-Carl von B\u00fclow, better known as Vicco von B\u00fclow \u2013 was a national treasure who combined the eloquence and linguistic dexterity of a Stephen Fry with a Peter Sellers-style sense of the absurd. Pretty much every German newspaper on Wednesday carried a picture of him on the front page, or one of his cartoons, rather than an image from the battle for Tripoli.\"Thank you for the laughter\" was the headline in the tabloid Bild. \"Through him, Germans learned to laugh\", said die Tageszeitung. \"What did Germans laugh about before Loriot came long? Nothing.\"A graphic designer by trade, von B\u00fclow started sketching cartoons in 1950 under the pseudonym Loriot. Having spent three years as a Wehrmacht soldier fighting on the eastern front, Loriot returned to a Germany very different to the one he had left. The cities were still reduced to rubble; families had been ripped apart. There was very little to laugh about.By the time his first cartoons appeared, in magazines such as Stern and Quick, Germany had divided into two. Though he was born in the eastern state of Brandenburg, it was in West Germany that Loriot found fame and his eponymous TV sketch show between 1976 and 1978 was a career high point, with its hugely popular mixture of straight-faced slapstick and wry jokes touching on key German stereotypes.Loriot was particularly good at poking fun at the German devotion to formality and earnestness. One of his most famous animations featured Herr M\u00fcller L\u00fcdenscheid and Herr Doktor Kl\u00f6bner, two naked men sitting in a hotel bath.The cartoon begins with the former saying, \"I don't wish to appear rude, but I would really like to be alone.\" The latter answers: \"Who on earth are you?\" The two then introduce themselves, with full honorifics. Herr M\u00fcller L\u00fcdenscheid then says: \"Would you mind telling me what you are doing in my bath?\" To which the other man replies: \"I was down in the basement ping pong room and got my room number mixed up.\" And on it goes.In one TV skit, Loriot is on a plane, chatting up an attractive younger woman, played by his long-term sidekick, Evelyn Hamann (who died in 2007). The two have a tremendously highfalutin conversation, quoting their favourite Rilke poems while struggling with the logistics of eating elegantly on an aeroplane.In another popular sketch, (here with subtitles) a group of distinguished adults are taking a class at the Modern Institute of Yodelling. In one famous line, a lady is asked by a radio journalist why she, as a woman, has been so keen to gain her yodelling diploma. \"I think, of all people, a housewife with children should have vocational qualifications. Then, when the time comes, and your grown-up children go away or anything happens, then after two years at yodelling school I will have my yodelling diploma.\"Loriot's trademark was his poker face. He once told Die Zeit: \"You will not see laughter in any of my films. Nowhere. The audience should be the ones laughing.\"German for ForeignersGrocery ShoppingThe NoodleThe Picture Isn't Hanging StraightSee if you can crack the German sense of humour by watching this video and reading the transcript below.Him: Berta!Her: Yes ...Him: The egg is hard!Her: [silence]Him: The egg is hard!!!Her: I heard you ...Him: How long did the egg cook for?Her: You always want them to be cooked for four and a half minutes ...Him: I know ...Her: So why are you asking?Him: Because this egg cannot have been cooked for four and a half minutes!Her: But every morning I cook your egg for four and a half minutes.Him: So why is it sometimes too hard and sometimes too soft?Her: I don't know! I'm not a chicken.Him: Ach. So how do you know when an egg is ready?Her: I take it out of the water after four and a half minutes, my God.Him: You use a clock or what?Her: Intuition. A housewife just has a feeling.Him: A feeling? You have a feeling?Her: I just feel it when the egg is ready.Him: But it's hard ... maybe your feelings aren't quite right.Her: My feelings aren't right? I'm in the kitchen all day, doing washing, sorting out your things, making the flat homely, getting irritated with the children under my feet, and you're telling me my feelings aren't right?Him: Yes, yes. Yes. Yes. If you cook an egg using your intuition then, if it does cook for exactly four and a half minutes, that will be a coincidence.Her: It shouldn't matter to you whether the egg coincidentally cooks for four and a half minutes. The main thing is that it cooks for four and a half minutes!Him: I would simply like a soft boiled egg and not a coincidentally soft egg. I don't care how long it cooks for!Her: Aha! You don't care. So you don't care if I slave for four and a half minutes in the kitchen!Him: No \u2013 noHer: But it does matter. The egg must be cooked for four and a half minutesHim: That's what I said!Her: But you just said you didn't care!Him: I only wanted a soft boiled egg ...Her: God, men are primitive.Him: [grim faced] I'll kill her. Tomorrow, I'll kill her", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany mourns king of comedy Loriot"},{"date": "2011-08-09T19:56:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "This is what Angela Merkel did not want to see: markets pricing up the cost to Germany of saving the euro.That is what seemed to be happening as the cost of insuring German and French bonds against default rose sharply. The price for German insurance has doubled since the start of July \u2013 it now costs \u20ac91,000 to insure \u20ac10m of five-year German bonds, which is close to the peak price seen during the banking turmoil of early 2009.The German chancellor's view, one can guess, is that markets are barking up the wrong tree. Hasn't she made clear that Germany won't be providing endless funds to bank-roll the European Financial Stability Facility? Well, yes, she has. But the market can see that words and deeds don't exactly tally.The European Central Bank is doing the EFSF's work. It is buying Spanish and Italian bonds (and having an impact: the yields on the 10-year bond yields fell again on Tuesday) and seems to be acting politically. Italy and Spain succumbed to the ECB's detailed demands for restructuring of their economies and received a subsidy in the form of lower borrowing costs. That looks like a step towards fiscal union, a pan-euro Treasury and the issue of eurobonds.It has huge political implications. \"As it becomes clear that the principle of 'joint and several liability' for eurozone debts is now being enacted in direct contradiction to the Maastricht Treaty, we may now start to see a backlash in Germany,\" thinks Nick Parsons, strategist at National Australia Bank.Indeed, Otmar Issing, a former member of the ECB's executive board, was stirring the pot in the FT \u2013 \"to change the \"no bail-out\" clause ever more in the direction of a bailout regime is not a step towards a democratically legitimised political union,\" he thinks. Rather it's a step on \"a slippery road to a regime of fiscal indiscipline drowning hitherto solid countries in the morass of over-indebtedness\". That, one suspects, will be a popular line in Germany.Merkel's problems are mounting. Unfortunately for her, the market is asking legitimate questions in changing the price of bond insurance. If fiscal union becomes the only way to save the euro, Germany will have to take a hit; and if the eurozone breaks up, the cost could be even greater.", "tags": ["Business", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Euro", "Currencies", "Angela Merkel"], "title": "Germany takes a hit for saving euro"},{"date": "2011-07-24T16:58:23Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has announced that it will lend \u20ac100m to the Libyan opposition to ease a growing humanitarian crisis in rebel-controlled parts of the country.The \u00a388m loan to the national transitional council (NTC) was secured against frozen Libyan government funds. The money comes as the rebels struggle to pay for essentials, a fact that was exacerbated on Sunday when government missiles struck the oil tanks that fuel the besieged city of Misrata's power generators.\"We have decided to provide the NTC with urgently needed funding for civil and humanitarian measures,\" said the German foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, in a statement. \"People are suffering more and more from this, particularly in eastern Libya.\"Five months into the war, cash is running low and the rebels have tried and failed to get access to billions of dollars held in Libyan government accounts.The situation is most acute in Misrata, Libya's third largest city, whose only route to the outside world is by sea. The normally affluent city was well stocked with supplies when war broke out, with petrol tanks and grain silos full. But supplies are running low, along with the cash to pay for them.Prices for goods ranging from clothes to fruit have skyrocketed in recent weeks. \"You cannot pay for everything you need in Misrata now, you cannot pay for juice, the children must have fruit and we cannot pay for it,\" said Bashir Al Zawawi, a lecturer in business administration at Misrata University.On Sunday, one of the four giant tanks holding the city's oil supplies was hit by three grad rockets fired from government lines, leaving a huge pall of smoke over the city.The most acute shortages are felt in Misrata's battered hospitals. \"We have a shortage of everything,\" Dr Khalid Abufalgha, head of the city's health council, told the Guardian. \"We are receiving humanitarian aid but it is never enough.\"The rebels say Qatar, one of their key backers, has offered an \"air bridge\" to fly in food and medical supplies fly out wounded, but only when it is safe to land at the airport. Engineers have cleared the runway of debris and cannibalised wrecked machinery to provide fuel and power for landing planes, but the government frontlines are too near to make landings safe.\"We need this airport,\" said the airport's director, Abdul Hamid Garwash. \"From our side we're ready, but permission is needed from Nato.\"Earlier this month the NTC spokesman, Abdul Hafiz Ghoga, complained that promises of payments from western donors in May remained unfulfilled. Western officials counter that payments are being held up because the NTC is unable to present a fully transparent accountancy system to allow funds to be checked, and to guarantee that money earmarked for aid is not used for weapons.Nato remains outwardly confident that however bad things are for the rebels, they were worse for government forces, saying that weeks of bombing had inflicted significant damage on Muammar Gaddafi's Bab al-Aziziyah compound in Tripoli, where bombs reportedly hit early on Sunday morning.\"Gaddafi has for decades hidden from the Libyan people behind these walls,\" said Major General Nick Pope, spokesman for Britain's chief of the defence staff.The Gaddafi government insists it remains open to a negotiated solution to the war, with spokesman Moussa Ibrahim saying Libyan officials had a \"productive dialogue\" with US officials last week.Informal peace proposals will be canvassed this week by special UN envoy to Libya, Abdul Elah al-Khatib, a Jordanian senator. But the sticking point in any negotiations is likely to be the insistence of the US, UK, France and Russia that Gaddafi steps down as a precondition to talks, which Ibrahim said would be rejected.", "tags": ["Libya", "Middle East and North Africa", "Africa", "World news", "Germany", "Europe", "Muammar Gaddafi", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Nato", "United Nations"], "title": "Germany to lend \u20ac100m to Libyan rebels"},{"date": "2011-07-14T09:40:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The leading Chinese dissident artist Ai Weiwei has accepted a teaching post at a Berlin university, a month after he was released from detention. But it is uncertain whether the Chinese authorities will allow him to leave because he remains under tight surveillance.Ai, who has endured what he described as \"extreme conditions\" and an 81-day detention in his home country, said on Thursday he was happy to take the offer of a professorship in Germany and that he would continue to focus on freedom of expression in his art.\"After 81 days put away, I was happy to accept this invitation,\" he said by phone. \"It's an important position, especially when I'm in such a difficult situation.\"Ai will not be able to leave China for at least a year because he is under investigation for alleged tax violations and facing tight restrictions.\"My passport has been taken away,\" he said. \"I am not allowed to leave Beijing. I have to report to the police before I go shopping or to a restaurant or to meet friends. They usually allow me to go, but of course I am followed by plainclothes officers.\"His lengthy incarceration sparked an international outcry. Ai was taken away by the authorities at Beijing airport on 3 April. He emerged on 22 June, saying he was not allowed to speak about the conditions of his detention. He had clearly lost weight and is now recuperating. \"I have to adjust myself \u2013 my body. I was in extreme conditions. I have to spend more time with my family,\" he said.Since his release the previously outspoken Ai has concentrated on his art rather than his activism, but he said his focus was unchanged despite his recent hardship.\"My art will never change. It is deep in my bones. But it has made many things clearer. I have been working in the direction of freedom of expression. I think that is most important for my art.\"The authorities are continuing to put pressure on Ai and his associates. At a hearing on Thursday officials told his wife, Lu Qing, and other representatives of his design firm, Beijing Fake Culture Development Ltd, that the company had not paid corporate taxes for a decade.Ai will remain under surveillance and tight restrictions until at least 22 June 2012. His status after that is unclear.The president of the Berlin University of the Arts, Martin Rennert, is optimistic that the artist will be able to take up a guest professorship. Rennart said on the university's website: \"We of course also interpret the acceptance as a positive signal as far as his present situation is concerned and are confident that Ai Weiwei will start working at our university in the near future.\"A spokeswoman for the university said the decision to offer Weiwei the professorship was made in April, soon after his arrest.\"We only heard a week or so later that the news had reached him,\" Claudia Assmann said. \"And then three days ago we received a written confirmation that he would accept the professorship, not from him directly but from an intermediary.\" Assmann said Ai said he would very much like to take up the position and felt very honoured.\"The decision to offer him the post was in part a way of showing support for him as a dissident, which was then given greater impetus by his arrest,\" she said.\"In December we first had talks about whether we should try and involve Ai Wei Wei, an unbelievably interesting personality, with our university. That was at a point at which, yes he was always very critical of the regime but it was not a question of life and limb, the pressure from the Chinese regime was not so much in the foreground. It was then accelerated by his arrest,\" Assmann said.\"The process of making the offer to him was very advanced and then, when he was arrested in April we wanted and had to react quickly. The whole thing was given a bit more impetus in order to then also give him a political signal.\"Asked whether she thought Ai would be able to take up the post, Assman said that the university was ready for him, but that it remained unclear if the Chinese authorities would permit him to go.\"We are prepared for him to come. It would naturally give us great pleasure. It is now up to the Chinese government when he will actually be allowed to leave the country. But we see it as very positive signal that he is now obviously in a situation that he can officially issue an acceptance of the post. We are very confident that it is completely realistic that some day he will come here and teach,\" she said.Ai said he was unclear how long the assignment would last, but it could initially be for three years.If Ai is allowed to leave he would be the second prominent Chinese artist to move to Berlin after being persecuted at home. Last week the author Liao Yiwu arrived in Germany after smuggling himself out of China. He had been denied an exit visa 17 times.", "tags": ["Ai Weiwei", "Art and design", "China", "Germany", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Ai Weiwei accepts teaching job in Germany"},{"date": "2011-09-29T12:17:58Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has successfully corralled her government into voting for the revamped euro bailout fund, asserting her authority as chancellor by pushing through the bill without needing to rely on opposition help.Of 611 MPs present in a highly-charged sitting at the Bundestag on Thursday morning, 523 voted in favour of expanding the powers of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF).Under the plan, the EFSF will be enlarged to \u20ac440bn (\u00a3382bn). It will also be given the ability to give \"precautionary loans\" to struggling European countries, buy EU government debt, and provide funding to shore up the capital reserves of European banks.The result was a triumph for Germany's shaky coalition government and marked a major step towards tackling the eurozone's sprawling sovereign debt crisis. Some analysts, though, argue that more radical measures will be needed.Eighty-five voted against the motion, including 10 from Merkel's own Christian Democratic bloc and three from the Free Democratic party (FDP), the chancellor's coalition partners. Most of the \"no\" voters belonged to the far-left Linke party, who believe the bailout fund will make banks richer and ordinary Europeans poorer.Only three MPs abstained, meaning that Germany in the future will be guaranteeing loans to the EFSF of up to \u20ac211bn, rather than \u20ac123bn so far. Just a month ago, test votes suggested up to 25 coalition MPs were planning to rebel after polls showed three-quarters of Germans opposed the bill.Had Merkel failed to pass the vote without relying on support from opposition MPs from the Social Democratic (SPD) and Green parties, many analysts believed her position would have been untenable and the coalition would have collapsed.Yet after a night of intense lobbying, a majority of coalition members \u2013 315 \u2013 voted in favour of the measure, enough to have ensured its passage even without opposition help.\"This shows the clear determination of the coalition on this issue,\" Rainer Br\u00fcderle, parliamentary leader of Merkel's junior partner, the Free Democrats, told the n-tv broadcaster after the vote. \"We have made an important decision for Europe.\"Yet Frank Sch\u00e4ffler, also of the Free Democrats, argued that bailout measures had worsened Greece's economic situation.\"Despite all arguments, the first bailout did not make the situation for Greece better, but worse,\" Sch\u00e4ffler said. \"Expanding the fund will make the situation even worse.\"Though Merkel described the euro before the vote as \"our common future\" and said approving the beefed-up bailout fund was \"of the very, very greatest significance\", discussions went deep into the night Wednesday, in an attempt to win over dissenting members of her governing coalition.On Wednesday, Finland voted in favour of expanding the fund's powers despite earlier threats to pull out of a rescue plan for Greece. The fund expansion has to be ratified by all 17 eurozone nations to take force.Germany's upper house of parliament is expected to pass the measure on Friday.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "European banks", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany backs revamped euro bailout fund"},{"date": "2011-08-24T16:56:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany is known for many things: reliable cars, punctual trains, a national reluctance to cross the road if the lights are on red. Comedy, though, not so much.Yet the country's reaction this week to the death of its most beloved postwar comic, aged 87, shows that Germans do indeed take their humour very seriously.It is a measure of the devotion inspired by Loriot that when his death was announced the foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, told journalists at a press conference on Libya that he would take questions on the comic only after he had answered all Gaddafi-related queries.Loriot \u2013 real name Bernhard Victor Christoph-Carl von B\u00fclow, better known as Vicco von B\u00fclow \u2013 was a national treasure who combined the eloquence and linguistic dexterity of a Stephen Fry with a Peter Sellers-style sense of the absurd. Pretty much every German newspaper on Wednesday carried a picture of him on the front page, or one of his cartoons, rather than an image from the battle for Tripoli.\"Thank you for the laughter\" was the headline in the tabloid Bild. \"Through him, Germans learned to laugh\", said die Tageszeitung. \"What did Germans laugh about before Loriot came long? Nothing.\"A graphic designer by trade, von B\u00fclow started sketching cartoons in 1950 under the pseudonym Loriot. Having spent three years as a Wehrmacht soldier fighting on the eastern front, Loriot returned to a Germany very different to the one he had left. The cities were still reduced to rubble; families had been ripped apart. There was very little to laugh about.By the time his first cartoons appeared, in magazines such as Stern and Quick, Germany had divided into two. Though he was born in the eastern state of Brandenburg, it was in West Germany that Loriot found fame and his eponymous TV sketch show between 1976 and 1978 was a career high point, with its hugely popular mixture of straight-faced slapstick and wry jokes touching on key German stereotypes.Loriot was particularly good at poking fun at the German devotion to formality and earnestness. One of his most famous animations featured Herr M\u00fcller L\u00fcdenscheid and Herr Doktor Kl\u00f6bner, two naked men sitting in a hotel bath.The cartoon begins with the former saying, \"I don't wish to appear rude, but I would really like to be alone.\" The latter answers: \"Who on earth are you?\" The two then introduce themselves, with full honorifics. Herr M\u00fcller L\u00fcdenscheid then says: \"Would you mind telling me what you are doing in my bath?\" To which the other man replies: \"I was down in the basement ping pong room and got my room number mixed up.\" And on it goes.In one TV skit, Loriot is on a plane, chatting up an attractive younger woman, played by his long-term sidekick, Evelyn Hamann (who died in 2007). The two have a tremendously highfalutin conversation, quoting their favourite Rilke poems while struggling with the logistics of eating elegantly on an aeroplane.In another popular sketch, (here with subtitles) a group of distinguished adults are taking a class at the Modern Institute of Yodelling. In one famous line, a lady is asked by a radio journalist why she, as a woman, has been so keen to gain her yodelling diploma. \"I think, of all people, a housewife with children should have vocational qualifications. Then, when the time comes, and your grown-up children go away or anything happens, then after two years at yodelling school I will have my yodelling diploma.\"Loriot's trademark was his poker face. He once told Die Zeit: \"You will not see laughter in any of my films. Nowhere. The audience should be the ones laughing.\"German for ForeignersGrocery ShoppingThe NoodleThe Picture Isn't Hanging StraightSee if you can crack the German sense of humour by watching this video and reading the transcript below.Him: Berta!Her: Yes ...Him: The egg is hard!Her: [silence]Him: The egg is hard!!!Her: I heard you ...Him: How long did the egg cook for?Her: You always want them to be cooked for four and a half minutes ...Him: I know ...Her: So why are you asking?Him: Because this egg cannot have been cooked for four and a half minutes!Her: But every morning I cook your egg for four and a half minutes.Him: So why is it sometimes too hard and sometimes too soft?Her: I don't know! I'm not a chicken.Him: Ach. So how do you know when an egg is ready?Her: I take it out of the water after four and a half minutes, my God.Him: You use a clock or what?Her: Intuition. A housewife just has a feeling.Him: A feeling? You have a feeling?Her: I just feel it when the egg is ready.Him: But it's hard ... maybe your feelings aren't quite right.Her: My feelings aren't right? I'm in the kitchen all day, doing washing, sorting out your things, making the flat homely, getting irritated with the children under my feet, and you're telling me my feelings aren't right?Him: Yes, yes. Yes. Yes. If you cook an egg using your intuition then, if it does cook for exactly four and a half minutes, that will be a coincidence.Her: It shouldn't matter to you whether the egg coincidentally cooks for four and a half minutes. The main thing is that it cooks for four and a half minutes!Him: I would simply like a soft boiled egg and not a coincidentally soft egg. I don't care how long it cooks for!Her: Aha! You don't care. So you don't care if I slave for four and a half minutes in the kitchen!Him: No \u2013 noHer: But it does matter. The egg must be cooked for four and a half minutesHim: That's what I said!Her: But you just said you didn't care!Him: I only wanted a soft boiled egg ...Her: God, men are primitive.Him: [grim faced] I'll kill her. Tomorrow, I'll kill her", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany mourns king of comedy Loriot"},{"date": "2011-08-09T19:56:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "This is what Angela Merkel did not want to see: markets pricing up the cost to Germany of saving the euro.That is what seemed to be happening as the cost of insuring German and French bonds against default rose sharply. The price for German insurance has doubled since the start of July \u2013 it now costs \u20ac91,000 to insure \u20ac10m of five-year German bonds, which is close to the peak price seen during the banking turmoil of early 2009.The German chancellor's view, one can guess, is that markets are barking up the wrong tree. Hasn't she made clear that Germany won't be providing endless funds to bank-roll the European Financial Stability Facility? Well, yes, she has. But the market can see that words and deeds don't exactly tally.The European Central Bank is doing the EFSF's work. It is buying Spanish and Italian bonds (and having an impact: the yields on the 10-year bond yields fell again on Tuesday) and seems to be acting politically. Italy and Spain succumbed to the ECB's detailed demands for restructuring of their economies and received a subsidy in the form of lower borrowing costs. That looks like a step towards fiscal union, a pan-euro Treasury and the issue of eurobonds.It has huge political implications. \"As it becomes clear that the principle of 'joint and several liability' for eurozone debts is now being enacted in direct contradiction to the Maastricht Treaty, we may now start to see a backlash in Germany,\" thinks Nick Parsons, strategist at National Australia Bank.Indeed, Otmar Issing, a former member of the ECB's executive board, was stirring the pot in the FT \u2013 \"to change the \"no bail-out\" clause ever more in the direction of a bailout regime is not a step towards a democratically legitimised political union,\" he thinks. Rather it's a step on \"a slippery road to a regime of fiscal indiscipline drowning hitherto solid countries in the morass of over-indebtedness\". That, one suspects, will be a popular line in Germany.Merkel's problems are mounting. Unfortunately for her, the market is asking legitimate questions in changing the price of bond insurance. If fiscal union becomes the only way to save the euro, Germany will have to take a hit; and if the eurozone breaks up, the cost could be even greater.", "tags": ["Business", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Euro", "Currencies", "Angela Merkel"], "title": "Germany takes a hit for saving euro"},{"date": "2011-07-24T16:58:23Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has announced that it will lend \u20ac100m to the Libyan opposition to ease a growing humanitarian crisis in rebel-controlled parts of the country.The \u00a388m loan to the national transitional council (NTC) was secured against frozen Libyan government funds. The money comes as the rebels struggle to pay for essentials, a fact that was exacerbated on Sunday when government missiles struck the oil tanks that fuel the besieged city of Misrata's power generators.\"We have decided to provide the NTC with urgently needed funding for civil and humanitarian measures,\" said the German foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, in a statement. \"People are suffering more and more from this, particularly in eastern Libya.\"Five months into the war, cash is running low and the rebels have tried and failed to get access to billions of dollars held in Libyan government accounts.The situation is most acute in Misrata, Libya's third largest city, whose only route to the outside world is by sea. The normally affluent city was well stocked with supplies when war broke out, with petrol tanks and grain silos full. But supplies are running low, along with the cash to pay for them.Prices for goods ranging from clothes to fruit have skyrocketed in recent weeks. \"You cannot pay for everything you need in Misrata now, you cannot pay for juice, the children must have fruit and we cannot pay for it,\" said Bashir Al Zawawi, a lecturer in business administration at Misrata University.On Sunday, one of the four giant tanks holding the city's oil supplies was hit by three grad rockets fired from government lines, leaving a huge pall of smoke over the city.The most acute shortages are felt in Misrata's battered hospitals. \"We have a shortage of everything,\" Dr Khalid Abufalgha, head of the city's health council, told the Guardian. \"We are receiving humanitarian aid but it is never enough.\"The rebels say Qatar, one of their key backers, has offered an \"air bridge\" to fly in food and medical supplies fly out wounded, but only when it is safe to land at the airport. Engineers have cleared the runway of debris and cannibalised wrecked machinery to provide fuel and power for landing planes, but the government frontlines are too near to make landings safe.\"We need this airport,\" said the airport's director, Abdul Hamid Garwash. \"From our side we're ready, but permission is needed from Nato.\"Earlier this month the NTC spokesman, Abdul Hafiz Ghoga, complained that promises of payments from western donors in May remained unfulfilled. Western officials counter that payments are being held up because the NTC is unable to present a fully transparent accountancy system to allow funds to be checked, and to guarantee that money earmarked for aid is not used for weapons.Nato remains outwardly confident that however bad things are for the rebels, they were worse for government forces, saying that weeks of bombing had inflicted significant damage on Muammar Gaddafi's Bab al-Aziziyah compound in Tripoli, where bombs reportedly hit early on Sunday morning.\"Gaddafi has for decades hidden from the Libyan people behind these walls,\" said Major General Nick Pope, spokesman for Britain's chief of the defence staff.The Gaddafi government insists it remains open to a negotiated solution to the war, with spokesman Moussa Ibrahim saying Libyan officials had a \"productive dialogue\" with US officials last week.Informal peace proposals will be canvassed this week by special UN envoy to Libya, Abdul Elah al-Khatib, a Jordanian senator. But the sticking point in any negotiations is likely to be the insistence of the US, UK, France and Russia that Gaddafi steps down as a precondition to talks, which Ibrahim said would be rejected.", "tags": ["Libya", "Middle East and North Africa", "Africa", "World news", "Germany", "Europe", "Muammar Gaddafi", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Nato", "United Nations"], "title": "Germany to lend \u20ac100m to Libyan rebels"},{"date": "2011-07-14T09:40:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The leading Chinese dissident artist Ai Weiwei has accepted a teaching post at a Berlin university, a month after he was released from detention. But it is uncertain whether the Chinese authorities will allow him to leave because he remains under tight surveillance.Ai, who has endured what he described as \"extreme conditions\" and an 81-day detention in his home country, said on Thursday he was happy to take the offer of a professorship in Germany and that he would continue to focus on freedom of expression in his art.\"After 81 days put away, I was happy to accept this invitation,\" he said by phone. \"It's an important position, especially when I'm in such a difficult situation.\"Ai will not be able to leave China for at least a year because he is under investigation for alleged tax violations and facing tight restrictions.\"My passport has been taken away,\" he said. \"I am not allowed to leave Beijing. I have to report to the police before I go shopping or to a restaurant or to meet friends. They usually allow me to go, but of course I am followed by plainclothes officers.\"His lengthy incarceration sparked an international outcry. Ai was taken away by the authorities at Beijing airport on 3 April. He emerged on 22 June, saying he was not allowed to speak about the conditions of his detention. He had clearly lost weight and is now recuperating. \"I have to adjust myself \u2013 my body. I was in extreme conditions. I have to spend more time with my family,\" he said.Since his release the previously outspoken Ai has concentrated on his art rather than his activism, but he said his focus was unchanged despite his recent hardship.\"My art will never change. It is deep in my bones. But it has made many things clearer. I have been working in the direction of freedom of expression. I think that is most important for my art.\"The authorities are continuing to put pressure on Ai and his associates. At a hearing on Thursday officials told his wife, Lu Qing, and other representatives of his design firm, Beijing Fake Culture Development Ltd, that the company had not paid corporate taxes for a decade.Ai will remain under surveillance and tight restrictions until at least 22 June 2012. His status after that is unclear.The president of the Berlin University of the Arts, Martin Rennert, is optimistic that the artist will be able to take up a guest professorship. Rennart said on the university's website: \"We of course also interpret the acceptance as a positive signal as far as his present situation is concerned and are confident that Ai Weiwei will start working at our university in the near future.\"A spokeswoman for the university said the decision to offer Weiwei the professorship was made in April, soon after his arrest.\"We only heard a week or so later that the news had reached him,\" Claudia Assmann said. \"And then three days ago we received a written confirmation that he would accept the professorship, not from him directly but from an intermediary.\" Assmann said Ai said he would very much like to take up the position and felt very honoured.\"The decision to offer him the post was in part a way of showing support for him as a dissident, which was then given greater impetus by his arrest,\" she said.\"In December we first had talks about whether we should try and involve Ai Wei Wei, an unbelievably interesting personality, with our university. That was at a point at which, yes he was always very critical of the regime but it was not a question of life and limb, the pressure from the Chinese regime was not so much in the foreground. It was then accelerated by his arrest,\" Assmann said.\"The process of making the offer to him was very advanced and then, when he was arrested in April we wanted and had to react quickly. The whole thing was given a bit more impetus in order to then also give him a political signal.\"Asked whether she thought Ai would be able to take up the post, Assman said that the university was ready for him, but that it remained unclear if the Chinese authorities would permit him to go.\"We are prepared for him to come. It would naturally give us great pleasure. It is now up to the Chinese government when he will actually be allowed to leave the country. But we see it as very positive signal that he is now obviously in a situation that he can officially issue an acceptance of the post. We are very confident that it is completely realistic that some day he will come here and teach,\" she said.Ai said he was unclear how long the assignment would last, but it could initially be for three years.If Ai is allowed to leave he would be the second prominent Chinese artist to move to Berlin after being persecuted at home. Last week the author Liao Yiwu arrived in Germany after smuggling himself out of China. He had been denied an exit visa 17 times.", "tags": ["Ai Weiwei", "Art and design", "China", "Germany", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Ai Weiwei accepts teaching job in Germany"},{"date": "2011-09-29T14:15:33Z", "country": "germany", "content": "So Angela Merkel got her vote and the eurozone gets Germany's money. This is good news. It's not the end of the euro crisis, nor even the beginning of the end, but it might be the end of the beginning. Conservative Eurosceptics such as Britain's William Hague should take note that the only party to vote against the beefed-up European rescue scheme were the neo-communists of the so-called Left party. There were some rebels on the left of the Green and Social Democrat parties, which, on current form will win the general election in 2013, and some within Merkel's coalition, but not as many as some \u2013 including Merkel herself \u2013 had feared. The fact is that Germany's political class as a whole is willing to do what it takes \u2013 albeit grumblingly \u2013 to save the euro.There are two reasons for this. The first and most important is self-interest. Most of Germany's exports go to eurozone countries. German banks hold a lot of eurozone sovereign debt. So the prospect of countries leaving the eurozone or defaulting on their debt is scary to businessmen and bankers alike. And much as Germans may criticise their profligate southern neighbours, their spendthrift ways help keep the euro's exchange rate down and German exports to the rest of the world affordable. Bailouts may be bad, but the alternative is worse.The second reason is idealism. For better or worse, Germany's elites are committed to the concept of an ever-closer union within Europe. Politicians as diverse as Joschka Fischer, the Greens' elder statesman, and Ursula von der Leyen, the Conservative CDU's economics minister (and would-be successor to Chancellor Merkel), have said that the current crisis should be used to advance towards a \"United States of Europe\".What of the people, though? There has always been an understanding that Europe is what the Germans call an \"Elitenprojekt\", and a fear that sooner or later a nativist, anti-immigrant and anti-European party would rear its head. After all, parties such as Geert Wilders's Freedom party have managed to corner about a fifth of the vote in most western European countries, and chauvinism is even worse in some eastern European nations such as Hungary. But Germany remains an anomaly. At the last state elections, in the city-state of Berlin two weeks ago, the rightwing populist parties were soundly drubbed. And the liberal Free Democrat party, which made a last-ditch attempt to cash in on perceived anti-euro sentiments, was humbled, getting 2% of the vote \u2013 a level they have sank to nationally in the polls, down from double digits in the last general election. By contrast, the digitally focused Pirate party, demanding total openness from government, got 9% in Berlin. A whopping 20% of the national electorate say they might consider voting for the Pirates next time.What does this tell us? There is certainly a lot of protest potential in Germany. The political class needs to get its act together. But people are angrier at the perceived opaqueness of politics than they are at Europe. This is a good sign. People want to be told the truth. They want to have the feeling that they will be consulted and that decisions will be transparent. Obviously, the byzantine and arcane politics of Brussels are part of the problem. But the Germans don't seem to view nationalism as a way out. The Pirates' slogan, borrowed from Willy Brandt's line of 40 years ago, was \"Mehr Demokratie wagen\" \u2013 let's attempt more democracy. There are worse slogans around in Europe.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "European monetary union"], "title": "Germany will remain the euro's defender \u2013 however reluctantly | Alan Posener"},{"date": "2011-09-29T12:17:58Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has successfully corralled her government into voting for the revamped euro bailout fund, asserting her authority as chancellor by pushing through the bill without needing to rely on opposition help.Of 611 MPs present in a highly-charged sitting at the Bundestag on Thursday morning, 523 voted in favour of expanding the powers of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF).Under the plan, the EFSF will be enlarged to \u20ac440bn (\u00a3382bn). It will also be given the ability to give \"precautionary loans\" to struggling European countries, buy EU government debt, and provide funding to shore up the capital reserves of European banks.The result was a triumph for Germany's shaky coalition government and marked a major step towards tackling the eurozone's sprawling sovereign debt crisis. Some analysts, though, argue that more radical measures will be needed.Eighty-five voted against the motion, including 10 from Merkel's own Christian Democratic bloc and three from the Free Democratic party (FDP), the chancellor's coalition partners. Most of the \"no\" voters belonged to the far-left Linke party, who believe the bailout fund will make banks richer and ordinary Europeans poorer.Only three MPs abstained, meaning that Germany in the future will be guaranteeing loans to the EFSF of up to \u20ac211bn, rather than \u20ac123bn so far. Just a month ago, test votes suggested up to 25 coalition MPs were planning to rebel after polls showed three-quarters of Germans opposed the bill.Had Merkel failed to pass the vote without relying on support from opposition MPs from the Social Democratic (SPD) and Green parties, many analysts believed her position would have been untenable and the coalition would have collapsed.Yet after a night of intense lobbying, a majority of coalition members \u2013 315 \u2013 voted in favour of the measure, enough to have ensured its passage even without opposition help.\"This shows the clear determination of the coalition on this issue,\" Rainer Br\u00fcderle, parliamentary leader of Merkel's junior partner, the Free Democrats, told the n-tv broadcaster after the vote. \"We have made an important decision for Europe.\"Yet Frank Sch\u00e4ffler, also of the Free Democrats, argued that bailout measures had worsened Greece's economic situation.\"Despite all arguments, the first bailout did not make the situation for Greece better, but worse,\" Sch\u00e4ffler said. \"Expanding the fund will make the situation even worse.\"Though Merkel described the euro before the vote as \"our common future\" and said approving the beefed-up bailout fund was \"of the very, very greatest significance\", discussions went deep into the night Wednesday, in an attempt to win over dissenting members of her governing coalition.On Wednesday, Finland voted in favour of expanding the fund's powers despite earlier threats to pull out of a rescue plan for Greece. The fund expansion has to be ratified by all 17 eurozone nations to take force.Germany's upper house of parliament is expected to pass the measure on Friday.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "European banks", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany backs revamped euro bailout fund"},{"date": "2011-08-24T16:56:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany is known for many things: reliable cars, punctual trains, a national reluctance to cross the road if the lights are on red. Comedy, though, not so much.Yet the country's reaction this week to the death of its most beloved postwar comic, aged 87, shows that Germans do indeed take their humour very seriously.It is a measure of the devotion inspired by Loriot that when his death was announced the foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, told journalists at a press conference on Libya that he would take questions on the comic only after he had answered all Gaddafi-related queries.Loriot \u2013 real name Bernhard Victor Christoph-Carl von B\u00fclow, better known as Vicco von B\u00fclow \u2013 was a national treasure who combined the eloquence and linguistic dexterity of a Stephen Fry with a Peter Sellers-style sense of the absurd. Pretty much every German newspaper on Wednesday carried a picture of him on the front page, or one of his cartoons, rather than an image from the battle for Tripoli.\"Thank you for the laughter\" was the headline in the tabloid Bild. \"Through him, Germans learned to laugh\", said die Tageszeitung. \"What did Germans laugh about before Loriot came long? Nothing.\"A graphic designer by trade, von B\u00fclow started sketching cartoons in 1950 under the pseudonym Loriot. Having spent three years as a Wehrmacht soldier fighting on the eastern front, Loriot returned to a Germany very different to the one he had left. The cities were still reduced to rubble; families had been ripped apart. There was very little to laugh about.By the time his first cartoons appeared, in magazines such as Stern and Quick, Germany had divided into two. Though he was born in the eastern state of Brandenburg, it was in West Germany that Loriot found fame and his eponymous TV sketch show between 1976 and 1978 was a career high point, with its hugely popular mixture of straight-faced slapstick and wry jokes touching on key German stereotypes.Loriot was particularly good at poking fun at the German devotion to formality and earnestness. One of his most famous animations featured Herr M\u00fcller L\u00fcdenscheid and Herr Doktor Kl\u00f6bner, two naked men sitting in a hotel bath.The cartoon begins with the former saying, \"I don't wish to appear rude, but I would really like to be alone.\" The latter answers: \"Who on earth are you?\" The two then introduce themselves, with full honorifics. Herr M\u00fcller L\u00fcdenscheid then says: \"Would you mind telling me what you are doing in my bath?\" To which the other man replies: \"I was down in the basement ping pong room and got my room number mixed up.\" And on it goes.In one TV skit, Loriot is on a plane, chatting up an attractive younger woman, played by his long-term sidekick, Evelyn Hamann (who died in 2007). The two have a tremendously highfalutin conversation, quoting their favourite Rilke poems while struggling with the logistics of eating elegantly on an aeroplane.In another popular sketch, (here with subtitles) a group of distinguished adults are taking a class at the Modern Institute of Yodelling. In one famous line, a lady is asked by a radio journalist why she, as a woman, has been so keen to gain her yodelling diploma. \"I think, of all people, a housewife with children should have vocational qualifications. Then, when the time comes, and your grown-up children go away or anything happens, then after two years at yodelling school I will have my yodelling diploma.\"Loriot's trademark was his poker face. He once told Die Zeit: \"You will not see laughter in any of my films. Nowhere. The audience should be the ones laughing.\"German for ForeignersGrocery ShoppingThe NoodleThe Picture Isn't Hanging StraightSee if you can crack the German sense of humour by watching this video and reading the transcript below.Him: Berta!Her: Yes ...Him: The egg is hard!Her: [silence]Him: The egg is hard!!!Her: I heard you ...Him: How long did the egg cook for?Her: You always want them to be cooked for four and a half minutes ...Him: I know ...Her: So why are you asking?Him: Because this egg cannot have been cooked for four and a half minutes!Her: But every morning I cook your egg for four and a half minutes.Him: So why is it sometimes too hard and sometimes too soft?Her: I don't know! I'm not a chicken.Him: Ach. So how do you know when an egg is ready?Her: I take it out of the water after four and a half minutes, my God.Him: You use a clock or what?Her: Intuition. A housewife just has a feeling.Him: A feeling? You have a feeling?Her: I just feel it when the egg is ready.Him: But it's hard ... maybe your feelings aren't quite right.Her: My feelings aren't right? I'm in the kitchen all day, doing washing, sorting out your things, making the flat homely, getting irritated with the children under my feet, and you're telling me my feelings aren't right?Him: Yes, yes. Yes. Yes. If you cook an egg using your intuition then, if it does cook for exactly four and a half minutes, that will be a coincidence.Her: It shouldn't matter to you whether the egg coincidentally cooks for four and a half minutes. The main thing is that it cooks for four and a half minutes!Him: I would simply like a soft boiled egg and not a coincidentally soft egg. I don't care how long it cooks for!Her: Aha! You don't care. So you don't care if I slave for four and a half minutes in the kitchen!Him: No \u2013 noHer: But it does matter. The egg must be cooked for four and a half minutesHim: That's what I said!Her: But you just said you didn't care!Him: I only wanted a soft boiled egg ...Her: God, men are primitive.Him: [grim faced] I'll kill her. Tomorrow, I'll kill her", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany mourns king of comedy Loriot"},{"date": "2011-08-09T19:56:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "This is what Angela Merkel did not want to see: markets pricing up the cost to Germany of saving the euro.That is what seemed to be happening as the cost of insuring German and French bonds against default rose sharply. The price for German insurance has doubled since the start of July \u2013 it now costs \u20ac91,000 to insure \u20ac10m of five-year German bonds, which is close to the peak price seen during the banking turmoil of early 2009.The German chancellor's view, one can guess, is that markets are barking up the wrong tree. Hasn't she made clear that Germany won't be providing endless funds to bank-roll the European Financial Stability Facility? Well, yes, she has. But the market can see that words and deeds don't exactly tally.The European Central Bank is doing the EFSF's work. It is buying Spanish and Italian bonds (and having an impact: the yields on the 10-year bond yields fell again on Tuesday) and seems to be acting politically. Italy and Spain succumbed to the ECB's detailed demands for restructuring of their economies and received a subsidy in the form of lower borrowing costs. That looks like a step towards fiscal union, a pan-euro Treasury and the issue of eurobonds.It has huge political implications. \"As it becomes clear that the principle of 'joint and several liability' for eurozone debts is now being enacted in direct contradiction to the Maastricht Treaty, we may now start to see a backlash in Germany,\" thinks Nick Parsons, strategist at National Australia Bank.Indeed, Otmar Issing, a former member of the ECB's executive board, was stirring the pot in the FT \u2013 \"to change the \"no bail-out\" clause ever more in the direction of a bailout regime is not a step towards a democratically legitimised political union,\" he thinks. Rather it's a step on \"a slippery road to a regime of fiscal indiscipline drowning hitherto solid countries in the morass of over-indebtedness\". That, one suspects, will be a popular line in Germany.Merkel's problems are mounting. Unfortunately for her, the market is asking legitimate questions in changing the price of bond insurance. If fiscal union becomes the only way to save the euro, Germany will have to take a hit; and if the eurozone breaks up, the cost could be even greater.", "tags": ["Business", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Euro", "Currencies", "Angela Merkel"], "title": "Germany takes a hit for saving euro"},{"date": "2011-07-24T16:58:23Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has announced that it will lend \u20ac100m to the Libyan opposition to ease a growing humanitarian crisis in rebel-controlled parts of the country.The \u00a388m loan to the national transitional council (NTC) was secured against frozen Libyan government funds. The money comes as the rebels struggle to pay for essentials, a fact that was exacerbated on Sunday when government missiles struck the oil tanks that fuel the besieged city of Misrata's power generators.\"We have decided to provide the NTC with urgently needed funding for civil and humanitarian measures,\" said the German foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, in a statement. \"People are suffering more and more from this, particularly in eastern Libya.\"Five months into the war, cash is running low and the rebels have tried and failed to get access to billions of dollars held in Libyan government accounts.The situation is most acute in Misrata, Libya's third largest city, whose only route to the outside world is by sea. The normally affluent city was well stocked with supplies when war broke out, with petrol tanks and grain silos full. But supplies are running low, along with the cash to pay for them.Prices for goods ranging from clothes to fruit have skyrocketed in recent weeks. \"You cannot pay for everything you need in Misrata now, you cannot pay for juice, the children must have fruit and we cannot pay for it,\" said Bashir Al Zawawi, a lecturer in business administration at Misrata University.On Sunday, one of the four giant tanks holding the city's oil supplies was hit by three grad rockets fired from government lines, leaving a huge pall of smoke over the city.The most acute shortages are felt in Misrata's battered hospitals. \"We have a shortage of everything,\" Dr Khalid Abufalgha, head of the city's health council, told the Guardian. \"We are receiving humanitarian aid but it is never enough.\"The rebels say Qatar, one of their key backers, has offered an \"air bridge\" to fly in food and medical supplies fly out wounded, but only when it is safe to land at the airport. Engineers have cleared the runway of debris and cannibalised wrecked machinery to provide fuel and power for landing planes, but the government frontlines are too near to make landings safe.\"We need this airport,\" said the airport's director, Abdul Hamid Garwash. \"From our side we're ready, but permission is needed from Nato.\"Earlier this month the NTC spokesman, Abdul Hafiz Ghoga, complained that promises of payments from western donors in May remained unfulfilled. Western officials counter that payments are being held up because the NTC is unable to present a fully transparent accountancy system to allow funds to be checked, and to guarantee that money earmarked for aid is not used for weapons.Nato remains outwardly confident that however bad things are for the rebels, they were worse for government forces, saying that weeks of bombing had inflicted significant damage on Muammar Gaddafi's Bab al-Aziziyah compound in Tripoli, where bombs reportedly hit early on Sunday morning.\"Gaddafi has for decades hidden from the Libyan people behind these walls,\" said Major General Nick Pope, spokesman for Britain's chief of the defence staff.The Gaddafi government insists it remains open to a negotiated solution to the war, with spokesman Moussa Ibrahim saying Libyan officials had a \"productive dialogue\" with US officials last week.Informal peace proposals will be canvassed this week by special UN envoy to Libya, Abdul Elah al-Khatib, a Jordanian senator. But the sticking point in any negotiations is likely to be the insistence of the US, UK, France and Russia that Gaddafi steps down as a precondition to talks, which Ibrahim said would be rejected.", "tags": ["Libya", "Middle East and North Africa", "Africa", "World news", "Germany", "Europe", "Muammar Gaddafi", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Nato", "United Nations"], "title": "Germany to lend \u20ac100m to Libyan rebels"},{"date": "2011-07-14T09:40:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The leading Chinese dissident artist Ai Weiwei has accepted a teaching post at a Berlin university, a month after he was released from detention. But it is uncertain whether the Chinese authorities will allow him to leave because he remains under tight surveillance.Ai, who has endured what he described as \"extreme conditions\" and an 81-day detention in his home country, said on Thursday he was happy to take the offer of a professorship in Germany and that he would continue to focus on freedom of expression in his art.\"After 81 days put away, I was happy to accept this invitation,\" he said by phone. \"It's an important position, especially when I'm in such a difficult situation.\"Ai will not be able to leave China for at least a year because he is under investigation for alleged tax violations and facing tight restrictions.\"My passport has been taken away,\" he said. \"I am not allowed to leave Beijing. I have to report to the police before I go shopping or to a restaurant or to meet friends. They usually allow me to go, but of course I am followed by plainclothes officers.\"His lengthy incarceration sparked an international outcry. Ai was taken away by the authorities at Beijing airport on 3 April. He emerged on 22 June, saying he was not allowed to speak about the conditions of his detention. He had clearly lost weight and is now recuperating. \"I have to adjust myself \u2013 my body. I was in extreme conditions. I have to spend more time with my family,\" he said.Since his release the previously outspoken Ai has concentrated on his art rather than his activism, but he said his focus was unchanged despite his recent hardship.\"My art will never change. It is deep in my bones. But it has made many things clearer. I have been working in the direction of freedom of expression. I think that is most important for my art.\"The authorities are continuing to put pressure on Ai and his associates. At a hearing on Thursday officials told his wife, Lu Qing, and other representatives of his design firm, Beijing Fake Culture Development Ltd, that the company had not paid corporate taxes for a decade.Ai will remain under surveillance and tight restrictions until at least 22 June 2012. His status after that is unclear.The president of the Berlin University of the Arts, Martin Rennert, is optimistic that the artist will be able to take up a guest professorship. Rennart said on the university's website: \"We of course also interpret the acceptance as a positive signal as far as his present situation is concerned and are confident that Ai Weiwei will start working at our university in the near future.\"A spokeswoman for the university said the decision to offer Weiwei the professorship was made in April, soon after his arrest.\"We only heard a week or so later that the news had reached him,\" Claudia Assmann said. \"And then three days ago we received a written confirmation that he would accept the professorship, not from him directly but from an intermediary.\" Assmann said Ai said he would very much like to take up the position and felt very honoured.\"The decision to offer him the post was in part a way of showing support for him as a dissident, which was then given greater impetus by his arrest,\" she said.\"In December we first had talks about whether we should try and involve Ai Wei Wei, an unbelievably interesting personality, with our university. That was at a point at which, yes he was always very critical of the regime but it was not a question of life and limb, the pressure from the Chinese regime was not so much in the foreground. It was then accelerated by his arrest,\" Assmann said.\"The process of making the offer to him was very advanced and then, when he was arrested in April we wanted and had to react quickly. The whole thing was given a bit more impetus in order to then also give him a political signal.\"Asked whether she thought Ai would be able to take up the post, Assman said that the university was ready for him, but that it remained unclear if the Chinese authorities would permit him to go.\"We are prepared for him to come. It would naturally give us great pleasure. It is now up to the Chinese government when he will actually be allowed to leave the country. But we see it as very positive signal that he is now obviously in a situation that he can officially issue an acceptance of the post. We are very confident that it is completely realistic that some day he will come here and teach,\" she said.Ai said he was unclear how long the assignment would last, but it could initially be for three years.If Ai is allowed to leave he would be the second prominent Chinese artist to move to Berlin after being persecuted at home. Last week the author Liao Yiwu arrived in Germany after smuggling himself out of China. He had been denied an exit visa 17 times.", "tags": ["Ai Weiwei", "Art and design", "China", "Germany", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Ai Weiwei accepts teaching job in Germany"},{"date": "2011-09-29T14:15:33Z", "country": "germany", "content": "So Angela Merkel got her vote and the eurozone gets Germany's money. This is good news. It's not the end of the euro crisis, nor even the beginning of the end, but it might be the end of the beginning. Conservative Eurosceptics such as Britain's William Hague should take note that the only party to vote against the beefed-up European rescue scheme were the neo-communists of the so-called Left party. There were some rebels on the left of the Green and Social Democrat parties, which, on current form will win the general election in 2013, and some within Merkel's coalition, but not as many as some \u2013 including Merkel herself \u2013 had feared. The fact is that Germany's political class as a whole is willing to do what it takes \u2013 albeit grumblingly \u2013 to save the euro.There are two reasons for this. The first and most important is self-interest. Most of Germany's exports go to eurozone countries. German banks hold a lot of eurozone sovereign debt. So the prospect of countries leaving the eurozone or defaulting on their debt is scary to businessmen and bankers alike. And much as Germans may criticise their profligate southern neighbours, their spendthrift ways help keep the euro's exchange rate down and German exports to the rest of the world affordable. Bailouts may be bad, but the alternative is worse.The second reason is idealism. For better or worse, Germany's elites are committed to the concept of an ever-closer union within Europe. Politicians as diverse as Joschka Fischer, the Greens' elder statesman, and Ursula von der Leyen, the Conservative CDU's economics minister (and would-be successor to Chancellor Merkel), have said that the current crisis should be used to advance towards a \"United States of Europe\".What of the people, though? There has always been an understanding that Europe is what the Germans call an \"Elitenprojekt\", and a fear that sooner or later a nativist, anti-immigrant and anti-European party would rear its head. After all, parties such as Geert Wilders's Freedom party have managed to corner about a fifth of the vote in most western European countries, and chauvinism is even worse in some eastern European nations such as Hungary. But Germany remains an anomaly. At the last state elections, in the city-state of Berlin two weeks ago, the rightwing populist parties were soundly drubbed. And the liberal Free Democrat party, which made a last-ditch attempt to cash in on perceived anti-euro sentiments, was humbled, getting 2% of the vote \u2013 a level they have sank to nationally in the polls, down from double digits in the last general election. By contrast, the digitally focused Pirate party, demanding total openness from government, got 9% in Berlin. A whopping 20% of the national electorate say they might consider voting for the Pirates next time.What does this tell us? There is certainly a lot of protest potential in Germany. The political class needs to get its act together. But people are angrier at the perceived opaqueness of politics than they are at Europe. This is a good sign. People want to be told the truth. They want to have the feeling that they will be consulted and that decisions will be transparent. Obviously, the byzantine and arcane politics of Brussels are part of the problem. But the Germans don't seem to view nationalism as a way out. The Pirates' slogan, borrowed from Willy Brandt's line of 40 years ago, was \"Mehr Demokratie wagen\" \u2013 let's attempt more democracy. There are worse slogans around in Europe.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "European monetary union"], "title": "Germany will remain the euro's defender \u2013 however reluctantly | Alan Posener"},{"date": "2011-09-22T10:43:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The pope has arrived in Berlin for his first state visit to his native Germany amid the now customary protests against his leadership of the Catholic church.Benedict XVI \u2013 born Joseph Ratzinger in Marktl, Bavaria, 84 years ago \u2013 was given the red carpet treatment at Berlin's Tegel airport, where he was met by German chancellor Angela Merkel and president Christian Wulff at the start of his four-day visit.He will give a speech in parliament later, which around 100 MPs have vowed to boycott over what they consider a violation of Germany's separation of church and state. Another 10,000 protesters are expected to demonstrate outside.The pope plans meetings with leaders of Germany's Jewish and Muslim communities, three masses, an ecumenical service with Lutheran church members and possibly meetings with victims abused by priests.The Vatican's views on contraception, the role of women, homosexuality and its handling of the sexual abuse scandal that rocked Germany last year are seen by many in Germany as outdated and out-of-touch.On the plane from Rome, the pope told reporters that he thought demonstrations were acceptable as long as they remained civil.They are \"normal in a free society and in the secularised world,\" he said.He said he believed there needs to be an examination of why people have been leaving the church recently, and the part that the abuse scandals played in the phenomenon.\"I can understand that some people have been scandalised by the crimes that have been revealed in recent times,\" he said.More than 250,000 people are registered to attend his masses, including about 70,000 who plan to be at the open-air service on Thursday night in Berlin's Olympic Stadium.Bild, Germany's biggest tabloid, has shown its support for the pope by hanging an enormous poster on the side of its high-rise headquarters in Berlin's Kreuzberg district. \"Wir sind Papst\" is the slogan, meaning \"We are pope\", the headline the newspaper chose for its front page the day after Joseph Ratzinger was chosen to succeed John Paul II in April 2005.The pontiff is expected to draw bigger crowds when he travels to Germany's more Catholic south. Of the 3.4 million people who live in largely atheist Berlin, 660 000 are protestants, 210 000 are Muslim and just 90 000 are classed as \"other Christians\".", "tags": ["Pope Benedict XVI", "Germany", "Catholicism", "Religion", "Christianity", "World news", "Europe", "The papacy"], "title": "Pope in Berlin for first state visit to native Germany"},{"date": "2011-09-29T12:17:58Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has successfully corralled her government into voting for the revamped euro bailout fund, asserting her authority as chancellor by pushing through the bill without needing to rely on opposition help.Of 611 MPs present in a highly-charged sitting at the Bundestag on Thursday morning, 523 voted in favour of expanding the powers of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF).Under the plan, the EFSF will be enlarged to \u20ac440bn (\u00a3382bn). It will also be given the ability to give \"precautionary loans\" to struggling European countries, buy EU government debt, and provide funding to shore up the capital reserves of European banks.The result was a triumph for Germany's shaky coalition government and marked a major step towards tackling the eurozone's sprawling sovereign debt crisis. Some analysts, though, argue that more radical measures will be needed.Eighty-five voted against the motion, including 10 from Merkel's own Christian Democratic bloc and three from the Free Democratic party (FDP), the chancellor's coalition partners. Most of the \"no\" voters belonged to the far-left Linke party, who believe the bailout fund will make banks richer and ordinary Europeans poorer.Only three MPs abstained, meaning that Germany in the future will be guaranteeing loans to the EFSF of up to \u20ac211bn, rather than \u20ac123bn so far. Just a month ago, test votes suggested up to 25 coalition MPs were planning to rebel after polls showed three-quarters of Germans opposed the bill.Had Merkel failed to pass the vote without relying on support from opposition MPs from the Social Democratic (SPD) and Green parties, many analysts believed her position would have been untenable and the coalition would have collapsed.Yet after a night of intense lobbying, a majority of coalition members \u2013 315 \u2013 voted in favour of the measure, enough to have ensured its passage even without opposition help.\"This shows the clear determination of the coalition on this issue,\" Rainer Br\u00fcderle, parliamentary leader of Merkel's junior partner, the Free Democrats, told the n-tv broadcaster after the vote. \"We have made an important decision for Europe.\"Yet Frank Sch\u00e4ffler, also of the Free Democrats, argued that bailout measures had worsened Greece's economic situation.\"Despite all arguments, the first bailout did not make the situation for Greece better, but worse,\" Sch\u00e4ffler said. \"Expanding the fund will make the situation even worse.\"Though Merkel described the euro before the vote as \"our common future\" and said approving the beefed-up bailout fund was \"of the very, very greatest significance\", discussions went deep into the night Wednesday, in an attempt to win over dissenting members of her governing coalition.On Wednesday, Finland voted in favour of expanding the fund's powers despite earlier threats to pull out of a rescue plan for Greece. The fund expansion has to be ratified by all 17 eurozone nations to take force.Germany's upper house of parliament is expected to pass the measure on Friday.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "European banks", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany backs revamped euro bailout fund"},{"date": "2011-08-24T16:56:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany is known for many things: reliable cars, punctual trains, a national reluctance to cross the road if the lights are on red. Comedy, though, not so much.Yet the country's reaction this week to the death of its most beloved postwar comic, aged 87, shows that Germans do indeed take their humour very seriously.It is a measure of the devotion inspired by Loriot that when his death was announced the foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, told journalists at a press conference on Libya that he would take questions on the comic only after he had answered all Gaddafi-related queries.Loriot \u2013 real name Bernhard Victor Christoph-Carl von B\u00fclow, better known as Vicco von B\u00fclow \u2013 was a national treasure who combined the eloquence and linguistic dexterity of a Stephen Fry with a Peter Sellers-style sense of the absurd. Pretty much every German newspaper on Wednesday carried a picture of him on the front page, or one of his cartoons, rather than an image from the battle for Tripoli.\"Thank you for the laughter\" was the headline in the tabloid Bild. \"Through him, Germans learned to laugh\", said die Tageszeitung. \"What did Germans laugh about before Loriot came long? Nothing.\"A graphic designer by trade, von B\u00fclow started sketching cartoons in 1950 under the pseudonym Loriot. Having spent three years as a Wehrmacht soldier fighting on the eastern front, Loriot returned to a Germany very different to the one he had left. The cities were still reduced to rubble; families had been ripped apart. There was very little to laugh about.By the time his first cartoons appeared, in magazines such as Stern and Quick, Germany had divided into two. Though he was born in the eastern state of Brandenburg, it was in West Germany that Loriot found fame and his eponymous TV sketch show between 1976 and 1978 was a career high point, with its hugely popular mixture of straight-faced slapstick and wry jokes touching on key German stereotypes.Loriot was particularly good at poking fun at the German devotion to formality and earnestness. One of his most famous animations featured Herr M\u00fcller L\u00fcdenscheid and Herr Doktor Kl\u00f6bner, two naked men sitting in a hotel bath.The cartoon begins with the former saying, \"I don't wish to appear rude, but I would really like to be alone.\" The latter answers: \"Who on earth are you?\" The two then introduce themselves, with full honorifics. Herr M\u00fcller L\u00fcdenscheid then says: \"Would you mind telling me what you are doing in my bath?\" To which the other man replies: \"I was down in the basement ping pong room and got my room number mixed up.\" And on it goes.In one TV skit, Loriot is on a plane, chatting up an attractive younger woman, played by his long-term sidekick, Evelyn Hamann (who died in 2007). The two have a tremendously highfalutin conversation, quoting their favourite Rilke poems while struggling with the logistics of eating elegantly on an aeroplane.In another popular sketch, (here with subtitles) a group of distinguished adults are taking a class at the Modern Institute of Yodelling. In one famous line, a lady is asked by a radio journalist why she, as a woman, has been so keen to gain her yodelling diploma. \"I think, of all people, a housewife with children should have vocational qualifications. Then, when the time comes, and your grown-up children go away or anything happens, then after two years at yodelling school I will have my yodelling diploma.\"Loriot's trademark was his poker face. He once told Die Zeit: \"You will not see laughter in any of my films. Nowhere. The audience should be the ones laughing.\"German for ForeignersGrocery ShoppingThe NoodleThe Picture Isn't Hanging StraightSee if you can crack the German sense of humour by watching this video and reading the transcript below.Him: Berta!Her: Yes ...Him: The egg is hard!Her: [silence]Him: The egg is hard!!!Her: I heard you ...Him: How long did the egg cook for?Her: You always want them to be cooked for four and a half minutes ...Him: I know ...Her: So why are you asking?Him: Because this egg cannot have been cooked for four and a half minutes!Her: But every morning I cook your egg for four and a half minutes.Him: So why is it sometimes too hard and sometimes too soft?Her: I don't know! I'm not a chicken.Him: Ach. So how do you know when an egg is ready?Her: I take it out of the water after four and a half minutes, my God.Him: You use a clock or what?Her: Intuition. A housewife just has a feeling.Him: A feeling? You have a feeling?Her: I just feel it when the egg is ready.Him: But it's hard ... maybe your feelings aren't quite right.Her: My feelings aren't right? I'm in the kitchen all day, doing washing, sorting out your things, making the flat homely, getting irritated with the children under my feet, and you're telling me my feelings aren't right?Him: Yes, yes. Yes. Yes. If you cook an egg using your intuition then, if it does cook for exactly four and a half minutes, that will be a coincidence.Her: It shouldn't matter to you whether the egg coincidentally cooks for four and a half minutes. The main thing is that it cooks for four and a half minutes!Him: I would simply like a soft boiled egg and not a coincidentally soft egg. I don't care how long it cooks for!Her: Aha! You don't care. So you don't care if I slave for four and a half minutes in the kitchen!Him: No \u2013 noHer: But it does matter. The egg must be cooked for four and a half minutesHim: That's what I said!Her: But you just said you didn't care!Him: I only wanted a soft boiled egg ...Her: God, men are primitive.Him: [grim faced] I'll kill her. Tomorrow, I'll kill her", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany mourns king of comedy Loriot"},{"date": "2011-08-09T19:56:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "This is what Angela Merkel did not want to see: markets pricing up the cost to Germany of saving the euro.That is what seemed to be happening as the cost of insuring German and French bonds against default rose sharply. The price for German insurance has doubled since the start of July \u2013 it now costs \u20ac91,000 to insure \u20ac10m of five-year German bonds, which is close to the peak price seen during the banking turmoil of early 2009.The German chancellor's view, one can guess, is that markets are barking up the wrong tree. Hasn't she made clear that Germany won't be providing endless funds to bank-roll the European Financial Stability Facility? Well, yes, she has. But the market can see that words and deeds don't exactly tally.The European Central Bank is doing the EFSF's work. It is buying Spanish and Italian bonds (and having an impact: the yields on the 10-year bond yields fell again on Tuesday) and seems to be acting politically. Italy and Spain succumbed to the ECB's detailed demands for restructuring of their economies and received a subsidy in the form of lower borrowing costs. That looks like a step towards fiscal union, a pan-euro Treasury and the issue of eurobonds.It has huge political implications. \"As it becomes clear that the principle of 'joint and several liability' for eurozone debts is now being enacted in direct contradiction to the Maastricht Treaty, we may now start to see a backlash in Germany,\" thinks Nick Parsons, strategist at National Australia Bank.Indeed, Otmar Issing, a former member of the ECB's executive board, was stirring the pot in the FT \u2013 \"to change the \"no bail-out\" clause ever more in the direction of a bailout regime is not a step towards a democratically legitimised political union,\" he thinks. Rather it's a step on \"a slippery road to a regime of fiscal indiscipline drowning hitherto solid countries in the morass of over-indebtedness\". That, one suspects, will be a popular line in Germany.Merkel's problems are mounting. Unfortunately for her, the market is asking legitimate questions in changing the price of bond insurance. If fiscal union becomes the only way to save the euro, Germany will have to take a hit; and if the eurozone breaks up, the cost could be even greater.", "tags": ["Business", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Euro", "Currencies", "Angela Merkel"], "title": "Germany takes a hit for saving euro"},{"date": "2011-07-24T16:58:23Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has announced that it will lend \u20ac100m to the Libyan opposition to ease a growing humanitarian crisis in rebel-controlled parts of the country.The \u00a388m loan to the national transitional council (NTC) was secured against frozen Libyan government funds. The money comes as the rebels struggle to pay for essentials, a fact that was exacerbated on Sunday when government missiles struck the oil tanks that fuel the besieged city of Misrata's power generators.\"We have decided to provide the NTC with urgently needed funding for civil and humanitarian measures,\" said the German foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, in a statement. \"People are suffering more and more from this, particularly in eastern Libya.\"Five months into the war, cash is running low and the rebels have tried and failed to get access to billions of dollars held in Libyan government accounts.The situation is most acute in Misrata, Libya's third largest city, whose only route to the outside world is by sea. The normally affluent city was well stocked with supplies when war broke out, with petrol tanks and grain silos full. But supplies are running low, along with the cash to pay for them.Prices for goods ranging from clothes to fruit have skyrocketed in recent weeks. \"You cannot pay for everything you need in Misrata now, you cannot pay for juice, the children must have fruit and we cannot pay for it,\" said Bashir Al Zawawi, a lecturer in business administration at Misrata University.On Sunday, one of the four giant tanks holding the city's oil supplies was hit by three grad rockets fired from government lines, leaving a huge pall of smoke over the city.The most acute shortages are felt in Misrata's battered hospitals. \"We have a shortage of everything,\" Dr Khalid Abufalgha, head of the city's health council, told the Guardian. \"We are receiving humanitarian aid but it is never enough.\"The rebels say Qatar, one of their key backers, has offered an \"air bridge\" to fly in food and medical supplies fly out wounded, but only when it is safe to land at the airport. Engineers have cleared the runway of debris and cannibalised wrecked machinery to provide fuel and power for landing planes, but the government frontlines are too near to make landings safe.\"We need this airport,\" said the airport's director, Abdul Hamid Garwash. \"From our side we're ready, but permission is needed from Nato.\"Earlier this month the NTC spokesman, Abdul Hafiz Ghoga, complained that promises of payments from western donors in May remained unfulfilled. Western officials counter that payments are being held up because the NTC is unable to present a fully transparent accountancy system to allow funds to be checked, and to guarantee that money earmarked for aid is not used for weapons.Nato remains outwardly confident that however bad things are for the rebels, they were worse for government forces, saying that weeks of bombing had inflicted significant damage on Muammar Gaddafi's Bab al-Aziziyah compound in Tripoli, where bombs reportedly hit early on Sunday morning.\"Gaddafi has for decades hidden from the Libyan people behind these walls,\" said Major General Nick Pope, spokesman for Britain's chief of the defence staff.The Gaddafi government insists it remains open to a negotiated solution to the war, with spokesman Moussa Ibrahim saying Libyan officials had a \"productive dialogue\" with US officials last week.Informal peace proposals will be canvassed this week by special UN envoy to Libya, Abdul Elah al-Khatib, a Jordanian senator. But the sticking point in any negotiations is likely to be the insistence of the US, UK, France and Russia that Gaddafi steps down as a precondition to talks, which Ibrahim said would be rejected.", "tags": ["Libya", "Middle East and North Africa", "Africa", "World news", "Germany", "Europe", "Muammar Gaddafi", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Nato", "United Nations"], "title": "Germany to lend \u20ac100m to Libyan rebels"},{"date": "2011-07-14T09:40:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The leading Chinese dissident artist Ai Weiwei has accepted a teaching post at a Berlin university, a month after he was released from detention. But it is uncertain whether the Chinese authorities will allow him to leave because he remains under tight surveillance.Ai, who has endured what he described as \"extreme conditions\" and an 81-day detention in his home country, said on Thursday he was happy to take the offer of a professorship in Germany and that he would continue to focus on freedom of expression in his art.\"After 81 days put away, I was happy to accept this invitation,\" he said by phone. \"It's an important position, especially when I'm in such a difficult situation.\"Ai will not be able to leave China for at least a year because he is under investigation for alleged tax violations and facing tight restrictions.\"My passport has been taken away,\" he said. \"I am not allowed to leave Beijing. I have to report to the police before I go shopping or to a restaurant or to meet friends. They usually allow me to go, but of course I am followed by plainclothes officers.\"His lengthy incarceration sparked an international outcry. Ai was taken away by the authorities at Beijing airport on 3 April. He emerged on 22 June, saying he was not allowed to speak about the conditions of his detention. He had clearly lost weight and is now recuperating. \"I have to adjust myself \u2013 my body. I was in extreme conditions. I have to spend more time with my family,\" he said.Since his release the previously outspoken Ai has concentrated on his art rather than his activism, but he said his focus was unchanged despite his recent hardship.\"My art will never change. It is deep in my bones. But it has made many things clearer. I have been working in the direction of freedom of expression. I think that is most important for my art.\"The authorities are continuing to put pressure on Ai and his associates. At a hearing on Thursday officials told his wife, Lu Qing, and other representatives of his design firm, Beijing Fake Culture Development Ltd, that the company had not paid corporate taxes for a decade.Ai will remain under surveillance and tight restrictions until at least 22 June 2012. His status after that is unclear.The president of the Berlin University of the Arts, Martin Rennert, is optimistic that the artist will be able to take up a guest professorship. Rennart said on the university's website: \"We of course also interpret the acceptance as a positive signal as far as his present situation is concerned and are confident that Ai Weiwei will start working at our university in the near future.\"A spokeswoman for the university said the decision to offer Weiwei the professorship was made in April, soon after his arrest.\"We only heard a week or so later that the news had reached him,\" Claudia Assmann said. \"And then three days ago we received a written confirmation that he would accept the professorship, not from him directly but from an intermediary.\" Assmann said Ai said he would very much like to take up the position and felt very honoured.\"The decision to offer him the post was in part a way of showing support for him as a dissident, which was then given greater impetus by his arrest,\" she said.\"In December we first had talks about whether we should try and involve Ai Wei Wei, an unbelievably interesting personality, with our university. That was at a point at which, yes he was always very critical of the regime but it was not a question of life and limb, the pressure from the Chinese regime was not so much in the foreground. It was then accelerated by his arrest,\" Assmann said.\"The process of making the offer to him was very advanced and then, when he was arrested in April we wanted and had to react quickly. The whole thing was given a bit more impetus in order to then also give him a political signal.\"Asked whether she thought Ai would be able to take up the post, Assman said that the university was ready for him, but that it remained unclear if the Chinese authorities would permit him to go.\"We are prepared for him to come. It would naturally give us great pleasure. It is now up to the Chinese government when he will actually be allowed to leave the country. But we see it as very positive signal that he is now obviously in a situation that he can officially issue an acceptance of the post. We are very confident that it is completely realistic that some day he will come here and teach,\" she said.Ai said he was unclear how long the assignment would last, but it could initially be for three years.If Ai is allowed to leave he would be the second prominent Chinese artist to move to Berlin after being persecuted at home. Last week the author Liao Yiwu arrived in Germany after smuggling himself out of China. He had been denied an exit visa 17 times.", "tags": ["Ai Weiwei", "Art and design", "China", "Germany", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Ai Weiwei accepts teaching job in Germany"},{"date": "2011-09-29T14:15:33Z", "country": "germany", "content": "So Angela Merkel got her vote and the eurozone gets Germany's money. This is good news. It's not the end of the euro crisis, nor even the beginning of the end, but it might be the end of the beginning. Conservative Eurosceptics such as Britain's William Hague should take note that the only party to vote against the beefed-up European rescue scheme were the neo-communists of the so-called Left party. There were some rebels on the left of the Green and Social Democrat parties, which, on current form will win the general election in 2013, and some within Merkel's coalition, but not as many as some \u2013 including Merkel herself \u2013 had feared. The fact is that Germany's political class as a whole is willing to do what it takes \u2013 albeit grumblingly \u2013 to save the euro.There are two reasons for this. The first and most important is self-interest. Most of Germany's exports go to eurozone countries. German banks hold a lot of eurozone sovereign debt. So the prospect of countries leaving the eurozone or defaulting on their debt is scary to businessmen and bankers alike. And much as Germans may criticise their profligate southern neighbours, their spendthrift ways help keep the euro's exchange rate down and German exports to the rest of the world affordable. Bailouts may be bad, but the alternative is worse.The second reason is idealism. For better or worse, Germany's elites are committed to the concept of an ever-closer union within Europe. Politicians as diverse as Joschka Fischer, the Greens' elder statesman, and Ursula von der Leyen, the Conservative CDU's economics minister (and would-be successor to Chancellor Merkel), have said that the current crisis should be used to advance towards a \"United States of Europe\".What of the people, though? There has always been an understanding that Europe is what the Germans call an \"Elitenprojekt\", and a fear that sooner or later a nativist, anti-immigrant and anti-European party would rear its head. After all, parties such as Geert Wilders's Freedom party have managed to corner about a fifth of the vote in most western European countries, and chauvinism is even worse in some eastern European nations such as Hungary. But Germany remains an anomaly. At the last state elections, in the city-state of Berlin two weeks ago, the rightwing populist parties were soundly drubbed. And the liberal Free Democrat party, which made a last-ditch attempt to cash in on perceived anti-euro sentiments, was humbled, getting 2% of the vote \u2013 a level they have sank to nationally in the polls, down from double digits in the last general election. By contrast, the digitally focused Pirate party, demanding total openness from government, got 9% in Berlin. A whopping 20% of the national electorate say they might consider voting for the Pirates next time.What does this tell us? There is certainly a lot of protest potential in Germany. The political class needs to get its act together. But people are angrier at the perceived opaqueness of politics than they are at Europe. This is a good sign. People want to be told the truth. They want to have the feeling that they will be consulted and that decisions will be transparent. Obviously, the byzantine and arcane politics of Brussels are part of the problem. But the Germans don't seem to view nationalism as a way out. The Pirates' slogan, borrowed from Willy Brandt's line of 40 years ago, was \"Mehr Demokratie wagen\" \u2013 let's attempt more democracy. There are worse slogans around in Europe.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "European monetary union"], "title": "Germany will remain the euro's defender \u2013 however reluctantly | Alan Posener"},{"date": "2011-09-22T10:43:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The pope has arrived in Berlin for his first state visit to his native Germany amid the now customary protests against his leadership of the Catholic church.Benedict XVI \u2013 born Joseph Ratzinger in Marktl, Bavaria, 84 years ago \u2013 was given the red carpet treatment at Berlin's Tegel airport, where he was met by German chancellor Angela Merkel and president Christian Wulff at the start of his four-day visit.He will give a speech in parliament later, which around 100 MPs have vowed to boycott over what they consider a violation of Germany's separation of church and state. Another 10,000 protesters are expected to demonstrate outside.The pope plans meetings with leaders of Germany's Jewish and Muslim communities, three masses, an ecumenical service with Lutheran church members and possibly meetings with victims abused by priests.The Vatican's views on contraception, the role of women, homosexuality and its handling of the sexual abuse scandal that rocked Germany last year are seen by many in Germany as outdated and out-of-touch.On the plane from Rome, the pope told reporters that he thought demonstrations were acceptable as long as they remained civil.They are \"normal in a free society and in the secularised world,\" he said.He said he believed there needs to be an examination of why people have been leaving the church recently, and the part that the abuse scandals played in the phenomenon.\"I can understand that some people have been scandalised by the crimes that have been revealed in recent times,\" he said.More than 250,000 people are registered to attend his masses, including about 70,000 who plan to be at the open-air service on Thursday night in Berlin's Olympic Stadium.Bild, Germany's biggest tabloid, has shown its support for the pope by hanging an enormous poster on the side of its high-rise headquarters in Berlin's Kreuzberg district. \"Wir sind Papst\" is the slogan, meaning \"We are pope\", the headline the newspaper chose for its front page the day after Joseph Ratzinger was chosen to succeed John Paul II in April 2005.The pontiff is expected to draw bigger crowds when he travels to Germany's more Catholic south. Of the 3.4 million people who live in largely atheist Berlin, 660 000 are protestants, 210 000 are Muslim and just 90 000 are classed as \"other Christians\".", "tags": ["Pope Benedict XVI", "Germany", "Catholicism", "Religion", "Christianity", "World news", "Europe", "The papacy"], "title": "Pope in Berlin for first state visit to native Germany"},{"date": "2011-09-09T15:17:14Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A German court has upheld a country-wide ban on sales of Samsung's flagship Galaxy Tab after a second successful claim by Apple.D\u00fcsseldorf regional court judge Johanna Brueckner-Hoffmann ruled on Friday the Galaxy Tab tablet computer had a \"clear impression of similarity\" to Apple's iPad.Samsung has been locked in a patent battle with Apple over the flagship device since April. Apple is seeking to block sales of Samsung's Galaxy range of tablet computers and smartphones in a number of territories, including Australia and Japan. Samsung has counter-sued the US electronics giant, claiming Apple infringes its wireless patents.The ban will prevent Samsung from distributing more Galaxy Tab computers to German retailers, who will be allowed to sell their existing stock.Samsung successfully fought a previous order that temporarily blocked the sale of its tablet computers in all EU countries, except the Netherlands.But the South Korean manufacturer has been hard hit by the patents battle, after it was forced to stop promoting its new range of products at Europe's largest consumer electronics fair, IFA, in Berlin last month.In a statement, Samsung vowed to appeal the ruling and claimed it would have a harmful impact on consumer choice in Germany.\"We are disappointed with this ruling and believe it severely limits consumer choice in Germany,\" it said. \"We also believe that by imposing an injunction based on this very generic design right, this ruling restricts design innovation and progress in the industry.\"It added: \"Samsung will actively and immediately appeal this ruling in order to ensure that consumer choice in Germany is restored. It should be noted that today's decision is inconsistent with the Dutch court's ruling on 24 August, which found the designs of Samsung's Galaxy range of products are distinctive and do not violate the cited design right.\"\"To defend our intellectual property rights and protect our freedom to innovate, Samsung will take all available legal options including continuing to aggressively pursue Apple for its ongoing violation of Samsung's wireless technology patents around the world.\"", "tags": ["Samsung", "Apple", "Computing", "Tablet computers", "Technology"], "title": "Apple wins as Germany upholds Galaxy Tab ban"},{"date": "2011-09-29T12:17:58Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Angela Merkel has successfully corralled her government into voting for the revamped euro bailout fund, asserting her authority as chancellor by pushing through the bill without needing to rely on opposition help.Of 611 MPs present in a highly-charged sitting at the Bundestag on Thursday morning, 523 voted in favour of expanding the powers of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF).Under the plan, the EFSF will be enlarged to \u20ac440bn (\u00a3382bn). It will also be given the ability to give \"precautionary loans\" to struggling European countries, buy EU government debt, and provide funding to shore up the capital reserves of European banks.The result was a triumph for Germany's shaky coalition government and marked a major step towards tackling the eurozone's sprawling sovereign debt crisis. Some analysts, though, argue that more radical measures will be needed.Eighty-five voted against the motion, including 10 from Merkel's own Christian Democratic bloc and three from the Free Democratic party (FDP), the chancellor's coalition partners. Most of the \"no\" voters belonged to the far-left Linke party, who believe the bailout fund will make banks richer and ordinary Europeans poorer.Only three MPs abstained, meaning that Germany in the future will be guaranteeing loans to the EFSF of up to \u20ac211bn, rather than \u20ac123bn so far. Just a month ago, test votes suggested up to 25 coalition MPs were planning to rebel after polls showed three-quarters of Germans opposed the bill.Had Merkel failed to pass the vote without relying on support from opposition MPs from the Social Democratic (SPD) and Green parties, many analysts believed her position would have been untenable and the coalition would have collapsed.Yet after a night of intense lobbying, a majority of coalition members \u2013 315 \u2013 voted in favour of the measure, enough to have ensured its passage even without opposition help.\"This shows the clear determination of the coalition on this issue,\" Rainer Br\u00fcderle, parliamentary leader of Merkel's junior partner, the Free Democrats, told the n-tv broadcaster after the vote. \"We have made an important decision for Europe.\"Yet Frank Sch\u00e4ffler, also of the Free Democrats, argued that bailout measures had worsened Greece's economic situation.\"Despite all arguments, the first bailout did not make the situation for Greece better, but worse,\" Sch\u00e4ffler said. \"Expanding the fund will make the situation even worse.\"Though Merkel described the euro before the vote as \"our common future\" and said approving the beefed-up bailout fund was \"of the very, very greatest significance\", discussions went deep into the night Wednesday, in an attempt to win over dissenting members of her governing coalition.On Wednesday, Finland voted in favour of expanding the fund's powers despite earlier threats to pull out of a rescue plan for Greece. The fund expansion has to be ratified by all 17 eurozone nations to take force.Germany's upper house of parliament is expected to pass the measure on Friday.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "European banks", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany backs revamped euro bailout fund"},{"date": "2011-08-24T16:56:24Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany is known for many things: reliable cars, punctual trains, a national reluctance to cross the road if the lights are on red. Comedy, though, not so much.Yet the country's reaction this week to the death of its most beloved postwar comic, aged 87, shows that Germans do indeed take their humour very seriously.It is a measure of the devotion inspired by Loriot that when his death was announced the foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, told journalists at a press conference on Libya that he would take questions on the comic only after he had answered all Gaddafi-related queries.Loriot \u2013 real name Bernhard Victor Christoph-Carl von B\u00fclow, better known as Vicco von B\u00fclow \u2013 was a national treasure who combined the eloquence and linguistic dexterity of a Stephen Fry with a Peter Sellers-style sense of the absurd. Pretty much every German newspaper on Wednesday carried a picture of him on the front page, or one of his cartoons, rather than an image from the battle for Tripoli.\"Thank you for the laughter\" was the headline in the tabloid Bild. \"Through him, Germans learned to laugh\", said die Tageszeitung. \"What did Germans laugh about before Loriot came long? Nothing.\"A graphic designer by trade, von B\u00fclow started sketching cartoons in 1950 under the pseudonym Loriot. Having spent three years as a Wehrmacht soldier fighting on the eastern front, Loriot returned to a Germany very different to the one he had left. The cities were still reduced to rubble; families had been ripped apart. There was very little to laugh about.By the time his first cartoons appeared, in magazines such as Stern and Quick, Germany had divided into two. Though he was born in the eastern state of Brandenburg, it was in West Germany that Loriot found fame and his eponymous TV sketch show between 1976 and 1978 was a career high point, with its hugely popular mixture of straight-faced slapstick and wry jokes touching on key German stereotypes.Loriot was particularly good at poking fun at the German devotion to formality and earnestness. One of his most famous animations featured Herr M\u00fcller L\u00fcdenscheid and Herr Doktor Kl\u00f6bner, two naked men sitting in a hotel bath.The cartoon begins with the former saying, \"I don't wish to appear rude, but I would really like to be alone.\" The latter answers: \"Who on earth are you?\" The two then introduce themselves, with full honorifics. Herr M\u00fcller L\u00fcdenscheid then says: \"Would you mind telling me what you are doing in my bath?\" To which the other man replies: \"I was down in the basement ping pong room and got my room number mixed up.\" And on it goes.In one TV skit, Loriot is on a plane, chatting up an attractive younger woman, played by his long-term sidekick, Evelyn Hamann (who died in 2007). The two have a tremendously highfalutin conversation, quoting their favourite Rilke poems while struggling with the logistics of eating elegantly on an aeroplane.In another popular sketch, (here with subtitles) a group of distinguished adults are taking a class at the Modern Institute of Yodelling. In one famous line, a lady is asked by a radio journalist why she, as a woman, has been so keen to gain her yodelling diploma. \"I think, of all people, a housewife with children should have vocational qualifications. Then, when the time comes, and your grown-up children go away or anything happens, then after two years at yodelling school I will have my yodelling diploma.\"Loriot's trademark was his poker face. He once told Die Zeit: \"You will not see laughter in any of my films. Nowhere. The audience should be the ones laughing.\"German for ForeignersGrocery ShoppingThe NoodleThe Picture Isn't Hanging StraightSee if you can crack the German sense of humour by watching this video and reading the transcript below.Him: Berta!Her: Yes ...Him: The egg is hard!Her: [silence]Him: The egg is hard!!!Her: I heard you ...Him: How long did the egg cook for?Her: You always want them to be cooked for four and a half minutes ...Him: I know ...Her: So why are you asking?Him: Because this egg cannot have been cooked for four and a half minutes!Her: But every morning I cook your egg for four and a half minutes.Him: So why is it sometimes too hard and sometimes too soft?Her: I don't know! I'm not a chicken.Him: Ach. So how do you know when an egg is ready?Her: I take it out of the water after four and a half minutes, my God.Him: You use a clock or what?Her: Intuition. A housewife just has a feeling.Him: A feeling? You have a feeling?Her: I just feel it when the egg is ready.Him: But it's hard ... maybe your feelings aren't quite right.Her: My feelings aren't right? I'm in the kitchen all day, doing washing, sorting out your things, making the flat homely, getting irritated with the children under my feet, and you're telling me my feelings aren't right?Him: Yes, yes. Yes. Yes. If you cook an egg using your intuition then, if it does cook for exactly four and a half minutes, that will be a coincidence.Her: It shouldn't matter to you whether the egg coincidentally cooks for four and a half minutes. The main thing is that it cooks for four and a half minutes!Him: I would simply like a soft boiled egg and not a coincidentally soft egg. I don't care how long it cooks for!Her: Aha! You don't care. So you don't care if I slave for four and a half minutes in the kitchen!Him: No \u2013 noHer: But it does matter. The egg must be cooked for four and a half minutesHim: That's what I said!Her: But you just said you didn't care!Him: I only wanted a soft boiled egg ...Her: God, men are primitive.Him: [grim faced] I'll kill her. Tomorrow, I'll kill her", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany mourns king of comedy Loriot"},{"date": "2011-08-09T19:56:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "This is what Angela Merkel did not want to see: markets pricing up the cost to Germany of saving the euro.That is what seemed to be happening as the cost of insuring German and French bonds against default rose sharply. The price for German insurance has doubled since the start of July \u2013 it now costs \u20ac91,000 to insure \u20ac10m of five-year German bonds, which is close to the peak price seen during the banking turmoil of early 2009.The German chancellor's view, one can guess, is that markets are barking up the wrong tree. Hasn't she made clear that Germany won't be providing endless funds to bank-roll the European Financial Stability Facility? Well, yes, she has. But the market can see that words and deeds don't exactly tally.The European Central Bank is doing the EFSF's work. It is buying Spanish and Italian bonds (and having an impact: the yields on the 10-year bond yields fell again on Tuesday) and seems to be acting politically. Italy and Spain succumbed to the ECB's detailed demands for restructuring of their economies and received a subsidy in the form of lower borrowing costs. That looks like a step towards fiscal union, a pan-euro Treasury and the issue of eurobonds.It has huge political implications. \"As it becomes clear that the principle of 'joint and several liability' for eurozone debts is now being enacted in direct contradiction to the Maastricht Treaty, we may now start to see a backlash in Germany,\" thinks Nick Parsons, strategist at National Australia Bank.Indeed, Otmar Issing, a former member of the ECB's executive board, was stirring the pot in the FT \u2013 \"to change the \"no bail-out\" clause ever more in the direction of a bailout regime is not a step towards a democratically legitimised political union,\" he thinks. Rather it's a step on \"a slippery road to a regime of fiscal indiscipline drowning hitherto solid countries in the morass of over-indebtedness\". That, one suspects, will be a popular line in Germany.Merkel's problems are mounting. Unfortunately for her, the market is asking legitimate questions in changing the price of bond insurance. If fiscal union becomes the only way to save the euro, Germany will have to take a hit; and if the eurozone breaks up, the cost could be even greater.", "tags": ["Business", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Euro", "Currencies", "Angela Merkel"], "title": "Germany takes a hit for saving euro"},{"date": "2011-07-24T16:58:23Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has announced that it will lend \u20ac100m to the Libyan opposition to ease a growing humanitarian crisis in rebel-controlled parts of the country.The \u00a388m loan to the national transitional council (NTC) was secured against frozen Libyan government funds. The money comes as the rebels struggle to pay for essentials, a fact that was exacerbated on Sunday when government missiles struck the oil tanks that fuel the besieged city of Misrata's power generators.\"We have decided to provide the NTC with urgently needed funding for civil and humanitarian measures,\" said the German foreign minister, Guido Westerwelle, in a statement. \"People are suffering more and more from this, particularly in eastern Libya.\"Five months into the war, cash is running low and the rebels have tried and failed to get access to billions of dollars held in Libyan government accounts.The situation is most acute in Misrata, Libya's third largest city, whose only route to the outside world is by sea. The normally affluent city was well stocked with supplies when war broke out, with petrol tanks and grain silos full. But supplies are running low, along with the cash to pay for them.Prices for goods ranging from clothes to fruit have skyrocketed in recent weeks. \"You cannot pay for everything you need in Misrata now, you cannot pay for juice, the children must have fruit and we cannot pay for it,\" said Bashir Al Zawawi, a lecturer in business administration at Misrata University.On Sunday, one of the four giant tanks holding the city's oil supplies was hit by three grad rockets fired from government lines, leaving a huge pall of smoke over the city.The most acute shortages are felt in Misrata's battered hospitals. \"We have a shortage of everything,\" Dr Khalid Abufalgha, head of the city's health council, told the Guardian. \"We are receiving humanitarian aid but it is never enough.\"The rebels say Qatar, one of their key backers, has offered an \"air bridge\" to fly in food and medical supplies fly out wounded, but only when it is safe to land at the airport. Engineers have cleared the runway of debris and cannibalised wrecked machinery to provide fuel and power for landing planes, but the government frontlines are too near to make landings safe.\"We need this airport,\" said the airport's director, Abdul Hamid Garwash. \"From our side we're ready, but permission is needed from Nato.\"Earlier this month the NTC spokesman, Abdul Hafiz Ghoga, complained that promises of payments from western donors in May remained unfulfilled. Western officials counter that payments are being held up because the NTC is unable to present a fully transparent accountancy system to allow funds to be checked, and to guarantee that money earmarked for aid is not used for weapons.Nato remains outwardly confident that however bad things are for the rebels, they were worse for government forces, saying that weeks of bombing had inflicted significant damage on Muammar Gaddafi's Bab al-Aziziyah compound in Tripoli, where bombs reportedly hit early on Sunday morning.\"Gaddafi has for decades hidden from the Libyan people behind these walls,\" said Major General Nick Pope, spokesman for Britain's chief of the defence staff.The Gaddafi government insists it remains open to a negotiated solution to the war, with spokesman Moussa Ibrahim saying Libyan officials had a \"productive dialogue\" with US officials last week.Informal peace proposals will be canvassed this week by special UN envoy to Libya, Abdul Elah al-Khatib, a Jordanian senator. But the sticking point in any negotiations is likely to be the insistence of the US, UK, France and Russia that Gaddafi steps down as a precondition to talks, which Ibrahim said would be rejected.", "tags": ["Libya", "Middle East and North Africa", "Africa", "World news", "Germany", "Europe", "Muammar Gaddafi", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Nato", "United Nations"], "title": "Germany to lend \u20ac100m to Libyan rebels"},{"date": "2011-07-14T09:40:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The leading Chinese dissident artist Ai Weiwei has accepted a teaching post at a Berlin university, a month after he was released from detention. But it is uncertain whether the Chinese authorities will allow him to leave because he remains under tight surveillance.Ai, who has endured what he described as \"extreme conditions\" and an 81-day detention in his home country, said on Thursday he was happy to take the offer of a professorship in Germany and that he would continue to focus on freedom of expression in his art.\"After 81 days put away, I was happy to accept this invitation,\" he said by phone. \"It's an important position, especially when I'm in such a difficult situation.\"Ai will not be able to leave China for at least a year because he is under investigation for alleged tax violations and facing tight restrictions.\"My passport has been taken away,\" he said. \"I am not allowed to leave Beijing. I have to report to the police before I go shopping or to a restaurant or to meet friends. They usually allow me to go, but of course I am followed by plainclothes officers.\"His lengthy incarceration sparked an international outcry. Ai was taken away by the authorities at Beijing airport on 3 April. He emerged on 22 June, saying he was not allowed to speak about the conditions of his detention. He had clearly lost weight and is now recuperating. \"I have to adjust myself \u2013 my body. I was in extreme conditions. I have to spend more time with my family,\" he said.Since his release the previously outspoken Ai has concentrated on his art rather than his activism, but he said his focus was unchanged despite his recent hardship.\"My art will never change. It is deep in my bones. But it has made many things clearer. I have been working in the direction of freedom of expression. I think that is most important for my art.\"The authorities are continuing to put pressure on Ai and his associates. At a hearing on Thursday officials told his wife, Lu Qing, and other representatives of his design firm, Beijing Fake Culture Development Ltd, that the company had not paid corporate taxes for a decade.Ai will remain under surveillance and tight restrictions until at least 22 June 2012. His status after that is unclear.The president of the Berlin University of the Arts, Martin Rennert, is optimistic that the artist will be able to take up a guest professorship. Rennart said on the university's website: \"We of course also interpret the acceptance as a positive signal as far as his present situation is concerned and are confident that Ai Weiwei will start working at our university in the near future.\"A spokeswoman for the university said the decision to offer Weiwei the professorship was made in April, soon after his arrest.\"We only heard a week or so later that the news had reached him,\" Claudia Assmann said. \"And then three days ago we received a written confirmation that he would accept the professorship, not from him directly but from an intermediary.\" Assmann said Ai said he would very much like to take up the position and felt very honoured.\"The decision to offer him the post was in part a way of showing support for him as a dissident, which was then given greater impetus by his arrest,\" she said.\"In December we first had talks about whether we should try and involve Ai Wei Wei, an unbelievably interesting personality, with our university. That was at a point at which, yes he was always very critical of the regime but it was not a question of life and limb, the pressure from the Chinese regime was not so much in the foreground. It was then accelerated by his arrest,\" Assmann said.\"The process of making the offer to him was very advanced and then, when he was arrested in April we wanted and had to react quickly. The whole thing was given a bit more impetus in order to then also give him a political signal.\"Asked whether she thought Ai would be able to take up the post, Assman said that the university was ready for him, but that it remained unclear if the Chinese authorities would permit him to go.\"We are prepared for him to come. It would naturally give us great pleasure. It is now up to the Chinese government when he will actually be allowed to leave the country. But we see it as very positive signal that he is now obviously in a situation that he can officially issue an acceptance of the post. We are very confident that it is completely realistic that some day he will come here and teach,\" she said.Ai said he was unclear how long the assignment would last, but it could initially be for three years.If Ai is allowed to leave he would be the second prominent Chinese artist to move to Berlin after being persecuted at home. Last week the author Liao Yiwu arrived in Germany after smuggling himself out of China. He had been denied an exit visa 17 times.", "tags": ["Ai Weiwei", "Art and design", "China", "Germany", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Ai Weiwei accepts teaching job in Germany"},{"date": "2011-09-29T14:15:33Z", "country": "germany", "content": "So Angela Merkel got her vote and the eurozone gets Germany's money. This is good news. It's not the end of the euro crisis, nor even the beginning of the end, but it might be the end of the beginning. Conservative Eurosceptics such as Britain's William Hague should take note that the only party to vote against the beefed-up European rescue scheme were the neo-communists of the so-called Left party. There were some rebels on the left of the Green and Social Democrat parties, which, on current form will win the general election in 2013, and some within Merkel's coalition, but not as many as some \u2013 including Merkel herself \u2013 had feared. The fact is that Germany's political class as a whole is willing to do what it takes \u2013 albeit grumblingly \u2013 to save the euro.There are two reasons for this. The first and most important is self-interest. Most of Germany's exports go to eurozone countries. German banks hold a lot of eurozone sovereign debt. So the prospect of countries leaving the eurozone or defaulting on their debt is scary to businessmen and bankers alike. And much as Germans may criticise their profligate southern neighbours, their spendthrift ways help keep the euro's exchange rate down and German exports to the rest of the world affordable. Bailouts may be bad, but the alternative is worse.The second reason is idealism. For better or worse, Germany's elites are committed to the concept of an ever-closer union within Europe. Politicians as diverse as Joschka Fischer, the Greens' elder statesman, and Ursula von der Leyen, the Conservative CDU's economics minister (and would-be successor to Chancellor Merkel), have said that the current crisis should be used to advance towards a \"United States of Europe\".What of the people, though? There has always been an understanding that Europe is what the Germans call an \"Elitenprojekt\", and a fear that sooner or later a nativist, anti-immigrant and anti-European party would rear its head. After all, parties such as Geert Wilders's Freedom party have managed to corner about a fifth of the vote in most western European countries, and chauvinism is even worse in some eastern European nations such as Hungary. But Germany remains an anomaly. At the last state elections, in the city-state of Berlin two weeks ago, the rightwing populist parties were soundly drubbed. And the liberal Free Democrat party, which made a last-ditch attempt to cash in on perceived anti-euro sentiments, was humbled, getting 2% of the vote \u2013 a level they have sank to nationally in the polls, down from double digits in the last general election. By contrast, the digitally focused Pirate party, demanding total openness from government, got 9% in Berlin. A whopping 20% of the national electorate say they might consider voting for the Pirates next time.What does this tell us? There is certainly a lot of protest potential in Germany. The political class needs to get its act together. But people are angrier at the perceived opaqueness of politics than they are at Europe. This is a good sign. People want to be told the truth. They want to have the feeling that they will be consulted and that decisions will be transparent. Obviously, the byzantine and arcane politics of Brussels are part of the problem. But the Germans don't seem to view nationalism as a way out. The Pirates' slogan, borrowed from Willy Brandt's line of 40 years ago, was \"Mehr Demokratie wagen\" \u2013 let's attempt more democracy. There are worse slogans around in Europe.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "European monetary union"], "title": "Germany will remain the euro's defender \u2013 however reluctantly | Alan Posener"},{"date": "2011-09-22T10:43:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The pope has arrived in Berlin for his first state visit to his native Germany amid the now customary protests against his leadership of the Catholic church.Benedict XVI \u2013 born Joseph Ratzinger in Marktl, Bavaria, 84 years ago \u2013 was given the red carpet treatment at Berlin's Tegel airport, where he was met by German chancellor Angela Merkel and president Christian Wulff at the start of his four-day visit.He will give a speech in parliament later, which around 100 MPs have vowed to boycott over what they consider a violation of Germany's separation of church and state. Another 10,000 protesters are expected to demonstrate outside.The pope plans meetings with leaders of Germany's Jewish and Muslim communities, three masses, an ecumenical service with Lutheran church members and possibly meetings with victims abused by priests.The Vatican's views on contraception, the role of women, homosexuality and its handling of the sexual abuse scandal that rocked Germany last year are seen by many in Germany as outdated and out-of-touch.On the plane from Rome, the pope told reporters that he thought demonstrations were acceptable as long as they remained civil.They are \"normal in a free society and in the secularised world,\" he said.He said he believed there needs to be an examination of why people have been leaving the church recently, and the part that the abuse scandals played in the phenomenon.\"I can understand that some people have been scandalised by the crimes that have been revealed in recent times,\" he said.More than 250,000 people are registered to attend his masses, including about 70,000 who plan to be at the open-air service on Thursday night in Berlin's Olympic Stadium.Bild, Germany's biggest tabloid, has shown its support for the pope by hanging an enormous poster on the side of its high-rise headquarters in Berlin's Kreuzberg district. \"Wir sind Papst\" is the slogan, meaning \"We are pope\", the headline the newspaper chose for its front page the day after Joseph Ratzinger was chosen to succeed John Paul II in April 2005.The pontiff is expected to draw bigger crowds when he travels to Germany's more Catholic south. Of the 3.4 million people who live in largely atheist Berlin, 660 000 are protestants, 210 000 are Muslim and just 90 000 are classed as \"other Christians\".", "tags": ["Pope Benedict XVI", "Germany", "Catholicism", "Religion", "Christianity", "World news", "Europe", "The papacy"], "title": "Pope in Berlin for first state visit to native Germany"},{"date": "2011-09-09T15:17:14Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A German court has upheld a country-wide ban on sales of Samsung's flagship Galaxy Tab after a second successful claim by Apple.D\u00fcsseldorf regional court judge Johanna Brueckner-Hoffmann ruled on Friday the Galaxy Tab tablet computer had a \"clear impression of similarity\" to Apple's iPad.Samsung has been locked in a patent battle with Apple over the flagship device since April. Apple is seeking to block sales of Samsung's Galaxy range of tablet computers and smartphones in a number of territories, including Australia and Japan. Samsung has counter-sued the US electronics giant, claiming Apple infringes its wireless patents.The ban will prevent Samsung from distributing more Galaxy Tab computers to German retailers, who will be allowed to sell their existing stock.Samsung successfully fought a previous order that temporarily blocked the sale of its tablet computers in all EU countries, except the Netherlands.But the South Korean manufacturer has been hard hit by the patents battle, after it was forced to stop promoting its new range of products at Europe's largest consumer electronics fair, IFA, in Berlin last month.In a statement, Samsung vowed to appeal the ruling and claimed it would have a harmful impact on consumer choice in Germany.\"We are disappointed with this ruling and believe it severely limits consumer choice in Germany,\" it said. \"We also believe that by imposing an injunction based on this very generic design right, this ruling restricts design innovation and progress in the industry.\"It added: \"Samsung will actively and immediately appeal this ruling in order to ensure that consumer choice in Germany is restored. It should be noted that today's decision is inconsistent with the Dutch court's ruling on 24 August, which found the designs of Samsung's Galaxy range of products are distinctive and do not violate the cited design right.\"\"To defend our intellectual property rights and protect our freedom to innovate, Samsung will take all available legal options including continuing to aggressively pursue Apple for its ongoing violation of Samsung's wireless technology patents around the world.\"", "tags": ["Samsung", "Apple", "Computing", "Tablet computers", "Technology"], "title": "Apple wins as Germany upholds Galaxy Tab ban"},{"date": "2011-09-04T16:58:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "German group Siemens will build the Crossrail train fleet in its D\u00fcsseldorf factory if it wins the \u00a31bn contract, despite the government's stated preference for a UK-based bidder.Siemens is one of the frontrunners for the UK's next major train manufacturing contract due to its financial heft and its selection as preferred bidder for the \u00a31.4bn Thameslink contract.However, the furore over the Thameslink decision, which has threatened the future of Britain's last remaining train factory at Bombardier's Derby facility, has forced ministers to pledge that the next train supply contest will put British contenders on an \"equal footing\" with their European counterparts.Speaking ahead of a House of Commons hearing on Thameslink on Wednesday, Steve Scrimshaw, head of Siemens' UK rolling stock division, said the main production base for the 60 Crossrail trains will be at the group's Krefeld plant near D\u00fcsseldorf, with some components made in the UK.\"We have no plans, as we currently stand, to establish a production facility in the UK for making trains for Crossrail,\" he said. Siemens believes it has enough capacity in the Krefeld factory where the Thameslink carriages \u2013 to build the 60 Crossrail trains as well will be made.Scrimshaw added that Siemens, one of four bidders for the Crossrail contract, was not concerned that the government's pledge will increase the chances of a UK-based company winning the deal. \"It is not anything that we are frightened about. Ultimately it has to be in line with European Union law and I am sure the government will not break European law,\" he said. EU rules bar states from showing explicit domestic bias in procurement decisions.France's Alstom pulled out of the Crossrail process last week, citing the incompatibility of its range of products, but Siemens remains a frontrunner because the Thameslink fleet is expected to be very similar to the Crossrail rolling stock. \"We are going to stay in the Crossrail process,\" said Scrimshaw.The other bidders on the Crossrail shortlist are Canadian group Bombardier, Spain's CAF and Hitachi of Japan.Last week Crossrail, which is building a new rail route linking Heathrow to Canary Wharf, said it would delay awarding the contract until 2014, allowing the government to factor in the conclusions of its procurement review.The decision to select Siemens as preferred bidder for Thameslink has enraged local politicians and trade unions, after Bombardier announced it would cut more than 1,400 jobs. The Unite union said it fears the Derby plant, which employs 3,000 people, will close once construction on a London Underground train contract has finished in 2014.The Thameslink decision triggered a political row over the government's ability to defend British manufacturing when it has described the sector as crucial to the economic recovery. However, Scrimshaw said: \"We won the bid fairly and squarely in accordance with the evaluation criteria. We have offered UK employment to up to 2,000 people, to add to the 16,000 Siemens already employs in the UK.\"Siemens has a long-established presence in the UK, which dates back to 1843 when William Siemens, then a 19-year-old engineer, arrived in Britain from Hamburg.However, critics of the Thameslink deal argue that the jobs created by Siemens will not contribute to a permanent train manufacturing base that could ultimately replace Derby. Nearly three-quarters of the jobs linked to the Thameslink deal will be in construction of the train depots, train maintenance and in the local supply chain. A further 300 will be based at the Siemens electrical components facility in Hebburn, South Tyneside.", "tags": ["Siemens", "Germany", "Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Bombardier", "Crossrail", "Rail transport", "Transport", "UK news", "Transport policy"], "title": "Siemens on track to take Crossrail contract to Germany"},{"date": "2011-10-06T18:27:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany's economy minister, Philipp R\u00f6sler, arrived in Athens on Thursday with businessmen, entrepreneurs, financiers and green energy experts in what was billed as a potentially groundbreaking visit to draw badly needed investment into the debt-stricken country.The prospect of German business reviving Greece's economy might have seemed far-fetched not long ago: at 109 in the World Bank's \"ease of doing business\" index, the nation ranks below Bangladesh, Ethiopia and Yemen. Foreign direct investment in the country was on a par with that of Libya before the outbreak of war.But like all great crises, Greece's debt drama has also provided opportunities. Before departing Berlin, R\u00f6sler, who had previously advocated an \"orderly bankruptcy\" for Athens, said he hoped the visit would \"act as a door-opener, so that personal contacts can be made\".\"In the spirit of solidarity, it is the task of all Europeans to help Greece get back on its feet economically,\" he told the German broadcaster ZDF. \"And we want to take German firms to Greece,\" he added, where the crisis was both about \"debt \u2026 and the lack of economic competitiveness\".With markets far from convinced that Greece will be spared a default 17 months after it secured \u20ac110bn (\u00a397bn) in rescue funds, Athens faces a tough sell. As the German delegation flew into the capital, the prime minister, George Papandreou, was working at breakneck speed to push a draconian austerity package through parliament \u2013 a condition made by the European Union, International Monetary Fund and European Central Bank, the country's creditors, in return for further aid.But while rampant corruption, a notorious bureaucracy and a weak justice system have also played a major part in keeping foreign firms out of the European Union state, the ruling socialists are also hoping the country's abundant sunshine can attract German renewable energy companies. Among the 60 business leaders travelling with R\u00f6sler are several from the alternative energy sector, which, if expanded, could see foreign lenders help kickstart Greece's recession-hit economy along with tourism and food processing.Plans are also afoot to develop about 20,000 hectares of solar power parks for exporting renewable energy to Germany, according to media reports.With the Greek economy poised to contract for a fourth consecutive year, officials say green energy could create 60,000 jobs at a time of record unemployment.In the wake of Japan's Fukushima nuclear disaster, the decision of the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, to close all 17 German nuclear reactors by 2022, alternative sources of energy are set to become increasingly important for Berlin.\"Greece could become the showcase of solar development in Europe's 'sun belt' and that development could become the main driver of Greece's green economic growth,\" said Costas Karayiannis, chief executive of Greece's only solar energy investment fund, Axeon Navitas. \"Germany is the global leader in solar energy and it has a lot less sun than Greece. It makes a lot of sense for it to invest in this type of project here.\"Most Greeks are not sure what to think, preferring to see what emerges from R\u00f6sler's visit. Memories of Nazi rule in a country that saw one of the most brutal German occupations during the second world war are never far away \u2013 even if Berlin has emerged as the main provider of the bailout that has so far enabled Greece to avert bankruptcy.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Business", "European monetary union", "European Union", "Global economy", "Economics", "Global recession", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European Central Bank", "Solar power", "Environment", "Energy industry", "Energy"], "title": "Greece hopes to sell sunshine to Germany"},{"date": "2011-10-06T18:27:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany's economy minister, Philipp R\u00f6sler, arrived in Athens on Thursday with businessmen, entrepreneurs, financiers and green energy experts in what was billed as a potentially groundbreaking visit to draw badly needed investment into the debt-stricken country.The prospect of German business reviving Greece's economy might have seemed far-fetched not long ago: at 109 in the World Bank's \"ease of doing business\" index, the nation ranks below Bangladesh, Ethiopia and Yemen. Foreign direct investment in the country was on a par with that of Libya before the outbreak of war.But like all great crises, Greece's debt drama has also provided opportunities. Before departing Berlin, R\u00f6sler, who had previously advocated an \"orderly bankruptcy\" for Athens, said he hoped the visit would \"act as a door-opener, so that personal contacts can be made\".\"In the spirit of solidarity, it is the task of all Europeans to help Greece get back on its feet economically,\" he told the German broadcaster ZDF. \"And we want to take German firms to Greece,\" he added, where the crisis was both about \"debt \u2026 and the lack of economic competitiveness\".With markets far from convinced that Greece will be spared a default 17 months after it secured \u20ac110bn (\u00a397bn) in rescue funds, Athens faces a tough sell. As the German delegation flew into the capital, the prime minister, George Papandreou, was working at breakneck speed to push a draconian austerity package through parliament \u2013 a condition made by the European Union, International Monetary Fund and European Central Bank, the country's creditors, in return for further aid.But while rampant corruption, a notorious bureaucracy and a weak justice system have also played a major part in keeping foreign firms out of the European Union state, the ruling socialists are also hoping the country's abundant sunshine can attract German renewable energy companies. Among the 60 business leaders travelling with R\u00f6sler are several from the alternative energy sector, which, if expanded, could see foreign lenders help kickstart Greece's recession-hit economy along with tourism and food processing.Plans are also afoot to develop about 20,000 hectares of solar power parks for exporting renewable energy to Germany, according to media reports.With the Greek economy poised to contract for a fourth consecutive year, officials say green energy could create 60,000 jobs at a time of record unemployment.In the wake of Japan's Fukushima nuclear disaster, the decision of the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, to close all 17 German nuclear reactors by 2022, alternative sources of energy are set to become increasingly important for Berlin.\"Greece could become the showcase of solar development in Europe's 'sun belt' and that development could become the main driver of Greece's green economic growth,\" said Costas Karayiannis, chief executive of Greece's only solar energy investment fund, Axeon Navitas. \"Germany is the global leader in solar energy and it has a lot less sun than Greece. It makes a lot of sense for it to invest in this type of project here.\"Most Greeks are not sure what to think, preferring to see what emerges from R\u00f6sler's visit. Memories of Nazi rule in a country that saw one of the most brutal German occupations during the second world war are never far away \u2013 even if Berlin has emerged as the main provider of the bailout that has so far enabled Greece to avert bankruptcy.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Business", "European monetary union", "European Union", "Global economy", "Economics", "Global recession", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European Central Bank", "Solar power", "Environment", "Energy industry", "Energy"], "title": "Greece hopes to sell sunshine to Germany"},{"date": "2011-12-08T18:01:42Z", "country": "germany", "content": "\"On this day 90 years ago, on 6 December 1921, the treaty was signed. The treaty restored Ireland's sovereignty [and] the British conceded fiscal autonomy to Ireland.\" These were the opening words by Ireland's minister of finance, Michael Noonan, in his first budget speech since the Fine Gael/Labour coalition came to power last February. Negotiated in 10 Downing Street and signed by David Lloyd George, Winston Churchill and Austen Chamberlain, the Anglo-Irish treaty created the Irish Free State. Michael Collins, a personal hero of both Noonan and the taoiseach, Enda Kenny, was one of the chief Irish signatories.Sovereignty has emotional resonance in Ireland. The consequence of the loss of financial independence is a fourth austerity budget. Since the economic crisis began in 2008, some \u20ac25bn, almost 15% of current gross domestic product, has been wiped out of the Irish economy. But this marks only the halfway point under the IMF-ECB-EU programme. Noonan and the Labour party minister for expenditure, Brendan Howlin, announced a \u20ac3.8bn adjustment this week, as required by troika agreement. This time around, the targets included the most marginalised and vulnerable in Irish society. In a scatter-gun approach, \u20ac2bn in stinging spending cuts were declared. This ranged from cuts to fuel benefit for poor families, widows' pensions, one-parent payments and child benefit.The coalition's commitment not to raise income tax was honoured and \u20ac1.6bn in extra revenue was instead raised through consumption and capital taxes which inevitably hit the lowest-income groups, according to the opposition parties.The government blames these choices on the fiscal straitjacket imposed by the troika. The failings of the previous Fianna Fail/Green coalition have served as a useful narrative by the current government to act as if in opposition.\"This is the budget of a puppet government, which is doing what it has been told to do by the IMF, the EU commission and the European Central Bank\" proclaimed Noonan to his predecessor, the late Brian Lenihan, at last year's budget speech. Nonetheless, Fine Gael and Labour have been in power for nine months and now the public feels they have to take ownership of the painful decisions that have been made.One of those is the 2010 Croke Park agreement between the public sector unions and the last government. The current coalition chose to leave public sector wages and pensions untouched. While benefits to the silent minority of the disabled, the poor and infirm were slashed, public sector workers will receive \u20ac300m in pay increases. So there have been no large-scale protests like those in Athens, but the honeymoon is certainly over.Although it has the largest majority in the history of the state, the stability of the coalition is being tested. A commitment to re-examine cuts to disability allowances were announced the day after they were made. Three Labour MPs, including a minister of state, have lost the whip following their opposition in recent months to swingeing cuts in public spending.The coalition's biggest test, however, is yet to come.Kenny has publicly opposed suggestions by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, in advance of the crisis European summit on Friday, that treaty changes are necessary to deal with eurozone governance. The Irish constitution requires that European treaty change must be passed by referendum \u2013 a near-impossible feat given the tide of growing Euroscepticism in Ireland.In the first televised address by a prime minister for 25 years, Kenny told a record Irish audience on Sunday, \"I want to be the taoiseach who retrieves Ireland's economic sovereignty.\" Irish acquiescence to treaty change in return for a European gesture of Irish debt forgiveness may go some way towards righting the balance. There are certainly parallels with 90 years ago \u2013 but whether the results for Ireland will be as happy remain to be seen.", "tags": ["Ireland", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Euro", "Economics", "European monetary union", "Business", "Austerity"], "title": "An Irish budget, made in Germany? | Elaine Byrne"},{"date": "2011-10-06T18:27:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany's economy minister, Philipp R\u00f6sler, arrived in Athens on Thursday with businessmen, entrepreneurs, financiers and green energy experts in what was billed as a potentially groundbreaking visit to draw badly needed investment into the debt-stricken country.The prospect of German business reviving Greece's economy might have seemed far-fetched not long ago: at 109 in the World Bank's \"ease of doing business\" index, the nation ranks below Bangladesh, Ethiopia and Yemen. Foreign direct investment in the country was on a par with that of Libya before the outbreak of war.But like all great crises, Greece's debt drama has also provided opportunities. Before departing Berlin, R\u00f6sler, who had previously advocated an \"orderly bankruptcy\" for Athens, said he hoped the visit would \"act as a door-opener, so that personal contacts can be made\".\"In the spirit of solidarity, it is the task of all Europeans to help Greece get back on its feet economically,\" he told the German broadcaster ZDF. \"And we want to take German firms to Greece,\" he added, where the crisis was both about \"debt \u2026 and the lack of economic competitiveness\".With markets far from convinced that Greece will be spared a default 17 months after it secured \u20ac110bn (\u00a397bn) in rescue funds, Athens faces a tough sell. As the German delegation flew into the capital, the prime minister, George Papandreou, was working at breakneck speed to push a draconian austerity package through parliament \u2013 a condition made by the European Union, International Monetary Fund and European Central Bank, the country's creditors, in return for further aid.But while rampant corruption, a notorious bureaucracy and a weak justice system have also played a major part in keeping foreign firms out of the European Union state, the ruling socialists are also hoping the country's abundant sunshine can attract German renewable energy companies. Among the 60 business leaders travelling with R\u00f6sler are several from the alternative energy sector, which, if expanded, could see foreign lenders help kickstart Greece's recession-hit economy along with tourism and food processing.Plans are also afoot to develop about 20,000 hectares of solar power parks for exporting renewable energy to Germany, according to media reports.With the Greek economy poised to contract for a fourth consecutive year, officials say green energy could create 60,000 jobs at a time of record unemployment.In the wake of Japan's Fukushima nuclear disaster, the decision of the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, to close all 17 German nuclear reactors by 2022, alternative sources of energy are set to become increasingly important for Berlin.\"Greece could become the showcase of solar development in Europe's 'sun belt' and that development could become the main driver of Greece's green economic growth,\" said Costas Karayiannis, chief executive of Greece's only solar energy investment fund, Axeon Navitas. \"Germany is the global leader in solar energy and it has a lot less sun than Greece. It makes a lot of sense for it to invest in this type of project here.\"Most Greeks are not sure what to think, preferring to see what emerges from R\u00f6sler's visit. Memories of Nazi rule in a country that saw one of the most brutal German occupations during the second world war are never far away \u2013 even if Berlin has emerged as the main provider of the bailout that has so far enabled Greece to avert bankruptcy.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Business", "European monetary union", "European Union", "Global economy", "Economics", "Global recession", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European Central Bank", "Solar power", "Environment", "Energy industry", "Energy"], "title": "Greece hopes to sell sunshine to Germany"},{"date": "2011-12-08T18:01:42Z", "country": "germany", "content": "\"On this day 90 years ago, on 6 December 1921, the treaty was signed. The treaty restored Ireland's sovereignty [and] the British conceded fiscal autonomy to Ireland.\" These were the opening words by Ireland's minister of finance, Michael Noonan, in his first budget speech since the Fine Gael/Labour coalition came to power last February. Negotiated in 10 Downing Street and signed by David Lloyd George, Winston Churchill and Austen Chamberlain, the Anglo-Irish treaty created the Irish Free State. Michael Collins, a personal hero of both Noonan and the taoiseach, Enda Kenny, was one of the chief Irish signatories.Sovereignty has emotional resonance in Ireland. The consequence of the loss of financial independence is a fourth austerity budget. Since the economic crisis began in 2008, some \u20ac25bn, almost 15% of current gross domestic product, has been wiped out of the Irish economy. But this marks only the halfway point under the IMF-ECB-EU programme. Noonan and the Labour party minister for expenditure, Brendan Howlin, announced a \u20ac3.8bn adjustment this week, as required by troika agreement. This time around, the targets included the most marginalised and vulnerable in Irish society. In a scatter-gun approach, \u20ac2bn in stinging spending cuts were declared. This ranged from cuts to fuel benefit for poor families, widows' pensions, one-parent payments and child benefit.The coalition's commitment not to raise income tax was honoured and \u20ac1.6bn in extra revenue was instead raised through consumption and capital taxes which inevitably hit the lowest-income groups, according to the opposition parties.The government blames these choices on the fiscal straitjacket imposed by the troika. The failings of the previous Fianna Fail/Green coalition have served as a useful narrative by the current government to act as if in opposition.\"This is the budget of a puppet government, which is doing what it has been told to do by the IMF, the EU commission and the European Central Bank\" proclaimed Noonan to his predecessor, the late Brian Lenihan, at last year's budget speech. Nonetheless, Fine Gael and Labour have been in power for nine months and now the public feels they have to take ownership of the painful decisions that have been made.One of those is the 2010 Croke Park agreement between the public sector unions and the last government. The current coalition chose to leave public sector wages and pensions untouched. While benefits to the silent minority of the disabled, the poor and infirm were slashed, public sector workers will receive \u20ac300m in pay increases. So there have been no large-scale protests like those in Athens, but the honeymoon is certainly over.Although it has the largest majority in the history of the state, the stability of the coalition is being tested. A commitment to re-examine cuts to disability allowances were announced the day after they were made. Three Labour MPs, including a minister of state, have lost the whip following their opposition in recent months to swingeing cuts in public spending.The coalition's biggest test, however, is yet to come.Kenny has publicly opposed suggestions by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, in advance of the crisis European summit on Friday, that treaty changes are necessary to deal with eurozone governance. The Irish constitution requires that European treaty change must be passed by referendum \u2013 a near-impossible feat given the tide of growing Euroscepticism in Ireland.In the first televised address by a prime minister for 25 years, Kenny told a record Irish audience on Sunday, \"I want to be the taoiseach who retrieves Ireland's economic sovereignty.\" Irish acquiescence to treaty change in return for a European gesture of Irish debt forgiveness may go some way towards righting the balance. There are certainly parallels with 90 years ago \u2013 but whether the results for Ireland will be as happy remain to be seen.", "tags": ["Ireland", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Euro", "Economics", "European monetary union", "Business", "Austerity"], "title": "An Irish budget, made in Germany? | Elaine Byrne"},{"date": "2011-11-28T07:46:49Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Taiwanese technology company HTC faces the bleak prospect of seeing sales of all its smartphones blocked from sale in Germany during the crucial Christmas period, after it withdrew its objections to a patent claim won by the German firm IPCom in February 2009 in a Mannheim court.HTC's appeal against the 2009 decision was due to be decided on this week. Its withdrawal means that the fourth-largest smartphone maker in the world could see its sales halted in the country. IPCom said in a statement that it \"now intends to execute this injunction in the shortest possible time\" and that: \"We will use the right awarded by the courts, likely resulting in HTC devices disappearing from shops during the crucial Christmas season.\"The announcement comes just weeks after HTC warned that its revenues could fall by much more the 8% in this quarter compared to the third quarter due to intensifying competition in the smartphone market from Samsung and Apple at the high end, and Chinese mainland companies at the low end.To some, it indicates that the company faces a serious challenge to its future growth. HTC claimed that its appeal would have been redundant, as a German patent court has questioned the validity of the patent in the 2009 decision.IPCom acquired Bosch's mobile telephony patent portfolio, created between the mid-1980s and 2000, which includes about 160 patent families worldwide, including some of the key patents in the wireless industry \u2013 such as \"patent 100\", which standardises a mobile phone's first connection to a network. IPCom has battled for years against HTC and the giant Finnish mobile company Nokia in European courts.Analysts and lawyers said HTC's withdrawal gives it time to battle against two other patents which could have been decided upon next week, while it can still try to delay the original injunction. However, the German patent expert and blogger Florian M\u00fcller said that \"while HTC can try to oppose the enforcement of the injunction, my research shows that the odds are very long against HTC on this one\". The sales disruption in Germany, one of Europe's largest smartphone markets \u2013 but where penetration is still only around 30%, indicating huge potential for growth \u2013 comes at a time when HTC is struggling to hold on to its position on the smartphone market.\"This represents an unwelcome distraction during an already difficult quarter for HTC,\" said CCS Insight analyst Geoff Blaber.Late last month, HTC warned that revenue would fall by up to 8% in October-December from the third quarter, and this week it flagged a much bigger drop, citing tougher competition and the global downturn. HTC's stock has fallen 30% in eight straight trading days.With Nokia's fall from market dominance still fresh in the memory, and BlackBerry maker Research in Motion losing ground, HTC needs to recapture its innovative drive to make sure it maintains its position, say analysts.\"It won't be easy for HTC to get out of the mess it's in right now,\" said Simon Liu, deputy investment officer at Polaris Group's fund unit. \"Still, it's not the end of HTC. It's certainly not another Nokia. Nokia missed out on the smartphone market from the very beginning, and didn't develop applications as well as Apple.\"For a decade, Taiwan's HTC quietly made phones for others to sell, but then decided to push its own brand in late 2006. In the year to April, its shares more than tripled after its innovative designs played well with shoppers.Sales of phone models including Desire, Sensation, Wildfire, Rhyme and ChaCha grew fourfold in just 18 months, and in the third quarter of this year it sold more smartphones in the US than any of its rivals.But its cracking performance is sputtering as it fails to bring out new products to rival the iPhone and Samsung's Galaxy in the high-end smartphone market.Closer to home, China's ZTE and Huawei Technologies Co are turning out smartphones that sell for as little as $100 (\u00a365) to target the low end of the business, a fast-growth market that HTC so far has largely avoided.\"It lacks a star smartphone,\" said CK Lu, an analyst with research firm Gartner in Taipei. \"If you put HTC phones all in a line, you won't be able to differentiate the products too clearly, unlike Samsung's Galaxy 2 or the iPhone. In China, for example, consumers won't be able to differentiate HTC phones from a slew of others, such as the China-made ones, and that's where HTC is facing some problems.\"HTC, valued at around $14bn, saw a bigger buildup of unsold inventory than rivals in the third quarter, a portent of weak sales in the crucial year-end holiday season.\"Aside from rising competition from Apple and Samsung in the high-end market, aggressive price competition from Huawei and ZTE at the lower-end could put further pressure on HTC's margin,\" said Laura Chen, analyst at BNP Paribas. \"We believe HTC is reviewing its product roadmap to regain market share in 2012. However, most of its new products are to be launched only late in the first quarter.\"HTC is also re-evaluating its $300m acquisition of S3 Graphics after the graphics technology firm lost a legal battle in the US against Apple, which raises the spectre that HTC products could be banned from the US \u2013 where it earns half its revenue. HTC had planned to buy S3 to beef up its defences in its own separate lawsuit battle with Apple.\"Winning the lawsuit has made it possible for Apple to squeeze HTC by the neck in future,\" said Liu at Polaris.HTC was the company that infuriated Steve Jobs, Apple's late co-founder and chief executive, when in January 2010 it introduced an Android phone that he alleged assimilated a number of iPhone features. On seeing it he told Eric Schmidt, then chief executive of Google, that he would try to wipe out Android. However the iPCom lawsuit has been running since long before that, and there is no indication that Apple was involved in its inception.HTC's shares are down more than 60% in six months, making it the worst performer among major handset firms, along with RIM. Shares in LG Electronics are down 36% and Nokia 29%. Samsung and Apple both rose around 9% in that period.Five analysts now have \"sell\" ratings on HTC, up from two just a month ago. The number of \"buy\" recommendations has dropped to nine from 13, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. HTC shares fell by the most allowed in one day last Friday, dropping nearly 7% for a second consecutive session.The company, which had 10.8% global market share in the third quarter, sold only 1m more phones than RIM, and its market share gap with bigger rivals is expected to widen as Nokia fights back with its first Windows Phone-based models.\"HTC hasn't offered enough new models, and hasn't been aggressive in its pricing strategy,\" Barclays analyst Dale Gai wrote in a client note. \"We believe Samsung leads HTC in most high-end models, including LTE phones, where HTC has failed to compete on form factor.\"Gartner's Lu, however, sees little risk of HTC going the way of Nokia.\"Basically, HTC is on the right track, but it will take time for its brand- and retail-building. It's in way better shape than LG, RIM and Motorola. But it's true it's not as competitive as Apple or Samsung.\"Annie Lu, a spokeswoman for HTC, said the company remained confident about driving new technologies. \"HTC has a strong and complete portfolio in both high-end/premium and mass market high quality products,\" she told Reuters.\"With our US operator partners, we have launched premium products such as HTC Rezound (with Verizon Wireless) and HTC Vivid (with AT&T), with high customer satisfaction ratings. In the mass market sector, HTC Wildfire has been a big hit this year, and we expect strong sales with the HTC Explorer launch.\"", "tags": ["Smartphones", "Intellectual property", "Samsung", "Apple", "iPhone", "Technology", "Nokia", "Mobile phones", "Telecommunications industry", "Telecoms", "Business", "Technology sector", "HTC"], "title": "HTC phone sales face halt in Germany"},{"date": "2011-10-06T18:27:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany's economy minister, Philipp R\u00f6sler, arrived in Athens on Thursday with businessmen, entrepreneurs, financiers and green energy experts in what was billed as a potentially groundbreaking visit to draw badly needed investment into the debt-stricken country.The prospect of German business reviving Greece's economy might have seemed far-fetched not long ago: at 109 in the World Bank's \"ease of doing business\" index, the nation ranks below Bangladesh, Ethiopia and Yemen. Foreign direct investment in the country was on a par with that of Libya before the outbreak of war.But like all great crises, Greece's debt drama has also provided opportunities. Before departing Berlin, R\u00f6sler, who had previously advocated an \"orderly bankruptcy\" for Athens, said he hoped the visit would \"act as a door-opener, so that personal contacts can be made\".\"In the spirit of solidarity, it is the task of all Europeans to help Greece get back on its feet economically,\" he told the German broadcaster ZDF. \"And we want to take German firms to Greece,\" he added, where the crisis was both about \"debt \u2026 and the lack of economic competitiveness\".With markets far from convinced that Greece will be spared a default 17 months after it secured \u20ac110bn (\u00a397bn) in rescue funds, Athens faces a tough sell. As the German delegation flew into the capital, the prime minister, George Papandreou, was working at breakneck speed to push a draconian austerity package through parliament \u2013 a condition made by the European Union, International Monetary Fund and European Central Bank, the country's creditors, in return for further aid.But while rampant corruption, a notorious bureaucracy and a weak justice system have also played a major part in keeping foreign firms out of the European Union state, the ruling socialists are also hoping the country's abundant sunshine can attract German renewable energy companies. Among the 60 business leaders travelling with R\u00f6sler are several from the alternative energy sector, which, if expanded, could see foreign lenders help kickstart Greece's recession-hit economy along with tourism and food processing.Plans are also afoot to develop about 20,000 hectares of solar power parks for exporting renewable energy to Germany, according to media reports.With the Greek economy poised to contract for a fourth consecutive year, officials say green energy could create 60,000 jobs at a time of record unemployment.In the wake of Japan's Fukushima nuclear disaster, the decision of the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, to close all 17 German nuclear reactors by 2022, alternative sources of energy are set to become increasingly important for Berlin.\"Greece could become the showcase of solar development in Europe's 'sun belt' and that development could become the main driver of Greece's green economic growth,\" said Costas Karayiannis, chief executive of Greece's only solar energy investment fund, Axeon Navitas. \"Germany is the global leader in solar energy and it has a lot less sun than Greece. It makes a lot of sense for it to invest in this type of project here.\"Most Greeks are not sure what to think, preferring to see what emerges from R\u00f6sler's visit. Memories of Nazi rule in a country that saw one of the most brutal German occupations during the second world war are never far away \u2013 even if Berlin has emerged as the main provider of the bailout that has so far enabled Greece to avert bankruptcy.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Business", "European monetary union", "European Union", "Global economy", "Economics", "Global recession", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European Central Bank", "Solar power", "Environment", "Energy industry", "Energy"], "title": "Greece hopes to sell sunshine to Germany"},{"date": "2011-12-08T18:01:42Z", "country": "germany", "content": "\"On this day 90 years ago, on 6 December 1921, the treaty was signed. The treaty restored Ireland's sovereignty [and] the British conceded fiscal autonomy to Ireland.\" These were the opening words by Ireland's minister of finance, Michael Noonan, in his first budget speech since the Fine Gael/Labour coalition came to power last February. Negotiated in 10 Downing Street and signed by David Lloyd George, Winston Churchill and Austen Chamberlain, the Anglo-Irish treaty created the Irish Free State. Michael Collins, a personal hero of both Noonan and the taoiseach, Enda Kenny, was one of the chief Irish signatories.Sovereignty has emotional resonance in Ireland. The consequence of the loss of financial independence is a fourth austerity budget. Since the economic crisis began in 2008, some \u20ac25bn, almost 15% of current gross domestic product, has been wiped out of the Irish economy. But this marks only the halfway point under the IMF-ECB-EU programme. Noonan and the Labour party minister for expenditure, Brendan Howlin, announced a \u20ac3.8bn adjustment this week, as required by troika agreement. This time around, the targets included the most marginalised and vulnerable in Irish society. In a scatter-gun approach, \u20ac2bn in stinging spending cuts were declared. This ranged from cuts to fuel benefit for poor families, widows' pensions, one-parent payments and child benefit.The coalition's commitment not to raise income tax was honoured and \u20ac1.6bn in extra revenue was instead raised through consumption and capital taxes which inevitably hit the lowest-income groups, according to the opposition parties.The government blames these choices on the fiscal straitjacket imposed by the troika. The failings of the previous Fianna Fail/Green coalition have served as a useful narrative by the current government to act as if in opposition.\"This is the budget of a puppet government, which is doing what it has been told to do by the IMF, the EU commission and the European Central Bank\" proclaimed Noonan to his predecessor, the late Brian Lenihan, at last year's budget speech. Nonetheless, Fine Gael and Labour have been in power for nine months and now the public feels they have to take ownership of the painful decisions that have been made.One of those is the 2010 Croke Park agreement between the public sector unions and the last government. The current coalition chose to leave public sector wages and pensions untouched. While benefits to the silent minority of the disabled, the poor and infirm were slashed, public sector workers will receive \u20ac300m in pay increases. So there have been no large-scale protests like those in Athens, but the honeymoon is certainly over.Although it has the largest majority in the history of the state, the stability of the coalition is being tested. A commitment to re-examine cuts to disability allowances were announced the day after they were made. Three Labour MPs, including a minister of state, have lost the whip following their opposition in recent months to swingeing cuts in public spending.The coalition's biggest test, however, is yet to come.Kenny has publicly opposed suggestions by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, in advance of the crisis European summit on Friday, that treaty changes are necessary to deal with eurozone governance. The Irish constitution requires that European treaty change must be passed by referendum \u2013 a near-impossible feat given the tide of growing Euroscepticism in Ireland.In the first televised address by a prime minister for 25 years, Kenny told a record Irish audience on Sunday, \"I want to be the taoiseach who retrieves Ireland's economic sovereignty.\" Irish acquiescence to treaty change in return for a European gesture of Irish debt forgiveness may go some way towards righting the balance. There are certainly parallels with 90 years ago \u2013 but whether the results for Ireland will be as happy remain to be seen.", "tags": ["Ireland", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Euro", "Economics", "European monetary union", "Business", "Austerity"], "title": "An Irish budget, made in Germany? | Elaine Byrne"},{"date": "2011-11-28T07:46:49Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Taiwanese technology company HTC faces the bleak prospect of seeing sales of all its smartphones blocked from sale in Germany during the crucial Christmas period, after it withdrew its objections to a patent claim won by the German firm IPCom in February 2009 in a Mannheim court.HTC's appeal against the 2009 decision was due to be decided on this week. Its withdrawal means that the fourth-largest smartphone maker in the world could see its sales halted in the country. IPCom said in a statement that it \"now intends to execute this injunction in the shortest possible time\" and that: \"We will use the right awarded by the courts, likely resulting in HTC devices disappearing from shops during the crucial Christmas season.\"The announcement comes just weeks after HTC warned that its revenues could fall by much more the 8% in this quarter compared to the third quarter due to intensifying competition in the smartphone market from Samsung and Apple at the high end, and Chinese mainland companies at the low end.To some, it indicates that the company faces a serious challenge to its future growth. HTC claimed that its appeal would have been redundant, as a German patent court has questioned the validity of the patent in the 2009 decision.IPCom acquired Bosch's mobile telephony patent portfolio, created between the mid-1980s and 2000, which includes about 160 patent families worldwide, including some of the key patents in the wireless industry \u2013 such as \"patent 100\", which standardises a mobile phone's first connection to a network. IPCom has battled for years against HTC and the giant Finnish mobile company Nokia in European courts.Analysts and lawyers said HTC's withdrawal gives it time to battle against two other patents which could have been decided upon next week, while it can still try to delay the original injunction. However, the German patent expert and blogger Florian M\u00fcller said that \"while HTC can try to oppose the enforcement of the injunction, my research shows that the odds are very long against HTC on this one\". The sales disruption in Germany, one of Europe's largest smartphone markets \u2013 but where penetration is still only around 30%, indicating huge potential for growth \u2013 comes at a time when HTC is struggling to hold on to its position on the smartphone market.\"This represents an unwelcome distraction during an already difficult quarter for HTC,\" said CCS Insight analyst Geoff Blaber.Late last month, HTC warned that revenue would fall by up to 8% in October-December from the third quarter, and this week it flagged a much bigger drop, citing tougher competition and the global downturn. HTC's stock has fallen 30% in eight straight trading days.With Nokia's fall from market dominance still fresh in the memory, and BlackBerry maker Research in Motion losing ground, HTC needs to recapture its innovative drive to make sure it maintains its position, say analysts.\"It won't be easy for HTC to get out of the mess it's in right now,\" said Simon Liu, deputy investment officer at Polaris Group's fund unit. \"Still, it's not the end of HTC. It's certainly not another Nokia. Nokia missed out on the smartphone market from the very beginning, and didn't develop applications as well as Apple.\"For a decade, Taiwan's HTC quietly made phones for others to sell, but then decided to push its own brand in late 2006. In the year to April, its shares more than tripled after its innovative designs played well with shoppers.Sales of phone models including Desire, Sensation, Wildfire, Rhyme and ChaCha grew fourfold in just 18 months, and in the third quarter of this year it sold more smartphones in the US than any of its rivals.But its cracking performance is sputtering as it fails to bring out new products to rival the iPhone and Samsung's Galaxy in the high-end smartphone market.Closer to home, China's ZTE and Huawei Technologies Co are turning out smartphones that sell for as little as $100 (\u00a365) to target the low end of the business, a fast-growth market that HTC so far has largely avoided.\"It lacks a star smartphone,\" said CK Lu, an analyst with research firm Gartner in Taipei. \"If you put HTC phones all in a line, you won't be able to differentiate the products too clearly, unlike Samsung's Galaxy 2 or the iPhone. In China, for example, consumers won't be able to differentiate HTC phones from a slew of others, such as the China-made ones, and that's where HTC is facing some problems.\"HTC, valued at around $14bn, saw a bigger buildup of unsold inventory than rivals in the third quarter, a portent of weak sales in the crucial year-end holiday season.\"Aside from rising competition from Apple and Samsung in the high-end market, aggressive price competition from Huawei and ZTE at the lower-end could put further pressure on HTC's margin,\" said Laura Chen, analyst at BNP Paribas. \"We believe HTC is reviewing its product roadmap to regain market share in 2012. However, most of its new products are to be launched only late in the first quarter.\"HTC is also re-evaluating its $300m acquisition of S3 Graphics after the graphics technology firm lost a legal battle in the US against Apple, which raises the spectre that HTC products could be banned from the US \u2013 where it earns half its revenue. HTC had planned to buy S3 to beef up its defences in its own separate lawsuit battle with Apple.\"Winning the lawsuit has made it possible for Apple to squeeze HTC by the neck in future,\" said Liu at Polaris.HTC was the company that infuriated Steve Jobs, Apple's late co-founder and chief executive, when in January 2010 it introduced an Android phone that he alleged assimilated a number of iPhone features. On seeing it he told Eric Schmidt, then chief executive of Google, that he would try to wipe out Android. However the iPCom lawsuit has been running since long before that, and there is no indication that Apple was involved in its inception.HTC's shares are down more than 60% in six months, making it the worst performer among major handset firms, along with RIM. Shares in LG Electronics are down 36% and Nokia 29%. Samsung and Apple both rose around 9% in that period.Five analysts now have \"sell\" ratings on HTC, up from two just a month ago. The number of \"buy\" recommendations has dropped to nine from 13, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. HTC shares fell by the most allowed in one day last Friday, dropping nearly 7% for a second consecutive session.The company, which had 10.8% global market share in the third quarter, sold only 1m more phones than RIM, and its market share gap with bigger rivals is expected to widen as Nokia fights back with its first Windows Phone-based models.\"HTC hasn't offered enough new models, and hasn't been aggressive in its pricing strategy,\" Barclays analyst Dale Gai wrote in a client note. \"We believe Samsung leads HTC in most high-end models, including LTE phones, where HTC has failed to compete on form factor.\"Gartner's Lu, however, sees little risk of HTC going the way of Nokia.\"Basically, HTC is on the right track, but it will take time for its brand- and retail-building. It's in way better shape than LG, RIM and Motorola. But it's true it's not as competitive as Apple or Samsung.\"Annie Lu, a spokeswoman for HTC, said the company remained confident about driving new technologies. \"HTC has a strong and complete portfolio in both high-end/premium and mass market high quality products,\" she told Reuters.\"With our US operator partners, we have launched premium products such as HTC Rezound (with Verizon Wireless) and HTC Vivid (with AT&T), with high customer satisfaction ratings. In the mass market sector, HTC Wildfire has been a big hit this year, and we expect strong sales with the HTC Explorer launch.\"", "tags": ["Smartphones", "Intellectual property", "Samsung", "Apple", "iPhone", "Technology", "Nokia", "Mobile phones", "Telecommunications industry", "Telecoms", "Business", "Technology sector", "HTC"], "title": "HTC phone sales face halt in Germany"},{"date": "2011-11-21T15:45:41Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Two Ukranian boxing brothers have teamed up with Sylvester Stallone to stage a musical version of Rocky in Hamburg, Germany.Stallone said he had long thought that a musical transfer for the 1976 Oscar-winning drama was a good idea, in particular if its romantic side was amped up. \"At the end of the day, Rocky is a love story and he could never have reached the final bell without Adrian. To see this story coming to life on a musical stage makes me proud. And it would make Rocky proud.\"Numbers which will move from the film to the stage version include Eye of the Tiger and Gonna Fly Now, although it's not clear whether they will be translated into German, the language in which the musical has been written. Gonna Fly Now, the main theme tune, was written by Bill Conti, who composed the bulk of the soundtrack, and made the No 1 spot on the US Billboard list for one week in 1977.Vitali and Wladimir Klitschko will co-produce the musical along with Stallone and train the lead actor, who has not yet been cast. Stallone, whose career was launched by Rocky, and who has previously sung in films such as Rhinestone, is unlikely to be cast himself.The brothers, whose own story has been committed to film, told how they had been fans of the film as children.\"Seeing Sylvester Stallone in Rocky when we were kids actually was the reason for us to start boxing in the first place, he said. \"We are very excited to support this theatrical project.\"The musical will open in November 2012.", "tags": ["Sylvester Stallone", "Action and adventure", "Film", "Drama", "Boxing", "Musicals", "Theatre", "Stage", "Culture"], "title": "Rocky the Musical to debut in Germany"},{"date": "2011-10-06T18:27:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany's economy minister, Philipp R\u00f6sler, arrived in Athens on Thursday with businessmen, entrepreneurs, financiers and green energy experts in what was billed as a potentially groundbreaking visit to draw badly needed investment into the debt-stricken country.The prospect of German business reviving Greece's economy might have seemed far-fetched not long ago: at 109 in the World Bank's \"ease of doing business\" index, the nation ranks below Bangladesh, Ethiopia and Yemen. Foreign direct investment in the country was on a par with that of Libya before the outbreak of war.But like all great crises, Greece's debt drama has also provided opportunities. Before departing Berlin, R\u00f6sler, who had previously advocated an \"orderly bankruptcy\" for Athens, said he hoped the visit would \"act as a door-opener, so that personal contacts can be made\".\"In the spirit of solidarity, it is the task of all Europeans to help Greece get back on its feet economically,\" he told the German broadcaster ZDF. \"And we want to take German firms to Greece,\" he added, where the crisis was both about \"debt \u2026 and the lack of economic competitiveness\".With markets far from convinced that Greece will be spared a default 17 months after it secured \u20ac110bn (\u00a397bn) in rescue funds, Athens faces a tough sell. As the German delegation flew into the capital, the prime minister, George Papandreou, was working at breakneck speed to push a draconian austerity package through parliament \u2013 a condition made by the European Union, International Monetary Fund and European Central Bank, the country's creditors, in return for further aid.But while rampant corruption, a notorious bureaucracy and a weak justice system have also played a major part in keeping foreign firms out of the European Union state, the ruling socialists are also hoping the country's abundant sunshine can attract German renewable energy companies. Among the 60 business leaders travelling with R\u00f6sler are several from the alternative energy sector, which, if expanded, could see foreign lenders help kickstart Greece's recession-hit economy along with tourism and food processing.Plans are also afoot to develop about 20,000 hectares of solar power parks for exporting renewable energy to Germany, according to media reports.With the Greek economy poised to contract for a fourth consecutive year, officials say green energy could create 60,000 jobs at a time of record unemployment.In the wake of Japan's Fukushima nuclear disaster, the decision of the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, to close all 17 German nuclear reactors by 2022, alternative sources of energy are set to become increasingly important for Berlin.\"Greece could become the showcase of solar development in Europe's 'sun belt' and that development could become the main driver of Greece's green economic growth,\" said Costas Karayiannis, chief executive of Greece's only solar energy investment fund, Axeon Navitas. \"Germany is the global leader in solar energy and it has a lot less sun than Greece. It makes a lot of sense for it to invest in this type of project here.\"Most Greeks are not sure what to think, preferring to see what emerges from R\u00f6sler's visit. Memories of Nazi rule in a country that saw one of the most brutal German occupations during the second world war are never far away \u2013 even if Berlin has emerged as the main provider of the bailout that has so far enabled Greece to avert bankruptcy.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Business", "European monetary union", "European Union", "Global economy", "Economics", "Global recession", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European Central Bank", "Solar power", "Environment", "Energy industry", "Energy"], "title": "Greece hopes to sell sunshine to Germany"},{"date": "2011-12-08T18:01:42Z", "country": "germany", "content": "\"On this day 90 years ago, on 6 December 1921, the treaty was signed. The treaty restored Ireland's sovereignty [and] the British conceded fiscal autonomy to Ireland.\" These were the opening words by Ireland's minister of finance, Michael Noonan, in his first budget speech since the Fine Gael/Labour coalition came to power last February. Negotiated in 10 Downing Street and signed by David Lloyd George, Winston Churchill and Austen Chamberlain, the Anglo-Irish treaty created the Irish Free State. Michael Collins, a personal hero of both Noonan and the taoiseach, Enda Kenny, was one of the chief Irish signatories.Sovereignty has emotional resonance in Ireland. The consequence of the loss of financial independence is a fourth austerity budget. Since the economic crisis began in 2008, some \u20ac25bn, almost 15% of current gross domestic product, has been wiped out of the Irish economy. But this marks only the halfway point under the IMF-ECB-EU programme. Noonan and the Labour party minister for expenditure, Brendan Howlin, announced a \u20ac3.8bn adjustment this week, as required by troika agreement. This time around, the targets included the most marginalised and vulnerable in Irish society. In a scatter-gun approach, \u20ac2bn in stinging spending cuts were declared. This ranged from cuts to fuel benefit for poor families, widows' pensions, one-parent payments and child benefit.The coalition's commitment not to raise income tax was honoured and \u20ac1.6bn in extra revenue was instead raised through consumption and capital taxes which inevitably hit the lowest-income groups, according to the opposition parties.The government blames these choices on the fiscal straitjacket imposed by the troika. The failings of the previous Fianna Fail/Green coalition have served as a useful narrative by the current government to act as if in opposition.\"This is the budget of a puppet government, which is doing what it has been told to do by the IMF, the EU commission and the European Central Bank\" proclaimed Noonan to his predecessor, the late Brian Lenihan, at last year's budget speech. Nonetheless, Fine Gael and Labour have been in power for nine months and now the public feels they have to take ownership of the painful decisions that have been made.One of those is the 2010 Croke Park agreement between the public sector unions and the last government. The current coalition chose to leave public sector wages and pensions untouched. While benefits to the silent minority of the disabled, the poor and infirm were slashed, public sector workers will receive \u20ac300m in pay increases. So there have been no large-scale protests like those in Athens, but the honeymoon is certainly over.Although it has the largest majority in the history of the state, the stability of the coalition is being tested. A commitment to re-examine cuts to disability allowances were announced the day after they were made. Three Labour MPs, including a minister of state, have lost the whip following their opposition in recent months to swingeing cuts in public spending.The coalition's biggest test, however, is yet to come.Kenny has publicly opposed suggestions by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, in advance of the crisis European summit on Friday, that treaty changes are necessary to deal with eurozone governance. The Irish constitution requires that European treaty change must be passed by referendum \u2013 a near-impossible feat given the tide of growing Euroscepticism in Ireland.In the first televised address by a prime minister for 25 years, Kenny told a record Irish audience on Sunday, \"I want to be the taoiseach who retrieves Ireland's economic sovereignty.\" Irish acquiescence to treaty change in return for a European gesture of Irish debt forgiveness may go some way towards righting the balance. There are certainly parallels with 90 years ago \u2013 but whether the results for Ireland will be as happy remain to be seen.", "tags": ["Ireland", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Euro", "Economics", "European monetary union", "Business", "Austerity"], "title": "An Irish budget, made in Germany? | Elaine Byrne"},{"date": "2011-11-28T07:46:49Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Taiwanese technology company HTC faces the bleak prospect of seeing sales of all its smartphones blocked from sale in Germany during the crucial Christmas period, after it withdrew its objections to a patent claim won by the German firm IPCom in February 2009 in a Mannheim court.HTC's appeal against the 2009 decision was due to be decided on this week. Its withdrawal means that the fourth-largest smartphone maker in the world could see its sales halted in the country. IPCom said in a statement that it \"now intends to execute this injunction in the shortest possible time\" and that: \"We will use the right awarded by the courts, likely resulting in HTC devices disappearing from shops during the crucial Christmas season.\"The announcement comes just weeks after HTC warned that its revenues could fall by much more the 8% in this quarter compared to the third quarter due to intensifying competition in the smartphone market from Samsung and Apple at the high end, and Chinese mainland companies at the low end.To some, it indicates that the company faces a serious challenge to its future growth. HTC claimed that its appeal would have been redundant, as a German patent court has questioned the validity of the patent in the 2009 decision.IPCom acquired Bosch's mobile telephony patent portfolio, created between the mid-1980s and 2000, which includes about 160 patent families worldwide, including some of the key patents in the wireless industry \u2013 such as \"patent 100\", which standardises a mobile phone's first connection to a network. IPCom has battled for years against HTC and the giant Finnish mobile company Nokia in European courts.Analysts and lawyers said HTC's withdrawal gives it time to battle against two other patents which could have been decided upon next week, while it can still try to delay the original injunction. However, the German patent expert and blogger Florian M\u00fcller said that \"while HTC can try to oppose the enforcement of the injunction, my research shows that the odds are very long against HTC on this one\". The sales disruption in Germany, one of Europe's largest smartphone markets \u2013 but where penetration is still only around 30%, indicating huge potential for growth \u2013 comes at a time when HTC is struggling to hold on to its position on the smartphone market.\"This represents an unwelcome distraction during an already difficult quarter for HTC,\" said CCS Insight analyst Geoff Blaber.Late last month, HTC warned that revenue would fall by up to 8% in October-December from the third quarter, and this week it flagged a much bigger drop, citing tougher competition and the global downturn. HTC's stock has fallen 30% in eight straight trading days.With Nokia's fall from market dominance still fresh in the memory, and BlackBerry maker Research in Motion losing ground, HTC needs to recapture its innovative drive to make sure it maintains its position, say analysts.\"It won't be easy for HTC to get out of the mess it's in right now,\" said Simon Liu, deputy investment officer at Polaris Group's fund unit. \"Still, it's not the end of HTC. It's certainly not another Nokia. Nokia missed out on the smartphone market from the very beginning, and didn't develop applications as well as Apple.\"For a decade, Taiwan's HTC quietly made phones for others to sell, but then decided to push its own brand in late 2006. In the year to April, its shares more than tripled after its innovative designs played well with shoppers.Sales of phone models including Desire, Sensation, Wildfire, Rhyme and ChaCha grew fourfold in just 18 months, and in the third quarter of this year it sold more smartphones in the US than any of its rivals.But its cracking performance is sputtering as it fails to bring out new products to rival the iPhone and Samsung's Galaxy in the high-end smartphone market.Closer to home, China's ZTE and Huawei Technologies Co are turning out smartphones that sell for as little as $100 (\u00a365) to target the low end of the business, a fast-growth market that HTC so far has largely avoided.\"It lacks a star smartphone,\" said CK Lu, an analyst with research firm Gartner in Taipei. \"If you put HTC phones all in a line, you won't be able to differentiate the products too clearly, unlike Samsung's Galaxy 2 or the iPhone. In China, for example, consumers won't be able to differentiate HTC phones from a slew of others, such as the China-made ones, and that's where HTC is facing some problems.\"HTC, valued at around $14bn, saw a bigger buildup of unsold inventory than rivals in the third quarter, a portent of weak sales in the crucial year-end holiday season.\"Aside from rising competition from Apple and Samsung in the high-end market, aggressive price competition from Huawei and ZTE at the lower-end could put further pressure on HTC's margin,\" said Laura Chen, analyst at BNP Paribas. \"We believe HTC is reviewing its product roadmap to regain market share in 2012. However, most of its new products are to be launched only late in the first quarter.\"HTC is also re-evaluating its $300m acquisition of S3 Graphics after the graphics technology firm lost a legal battle in the US against Apple, which raises the spectre that HTC products could be banned from the US \u2013 where it earns half its revenue. HTC had planned to buy S3 to beef up its defences in its own separate lawsuit battle with Apple.\"Winning the lawsuit has made it possible for Apple to squeeze HTC by the neck in future,\" said Liu at Polaris.HTC was the company that infuriated Steve Jobs, Apple's late co-founder and chief executive, when in January 2010 it introduced an Android phone that he alleged assimilated a number of iPhone features. On seeing it he told Eric Schmidt, then chief executive of Google, that he would try to wipe out Android. However the iPCom lawsuit has been running since long before that, and there is no indication that Apple was involved in its inception.HTC's shares are down more than 60% in six months, making it the worst performer among major handset firms, along with RIM. Shares in LG Electronics are down 36% and Nokia 29%. Samsung and Apple both rose around 9% in that period.Five analysts now have \"sell\" ratings on HTC, up from two just a month ago. The number of \"buy\" recommendations has dropped to nine from 13, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. HTC shares fell by the most allowed in one day last Friday, dropping nearly 7% for a second consecutive session.The company, which had 10.8% global market share in the third quarter, sold only 1m more phones than RIM, and its market share gap with bigger rivals is expected to widen as Nokia fights back with its first Windows Phone-based models.\"HTC hasn't offered enough new models, and hasn't been aggressive in its pricing strategy,\" Barclays analyst Dale Gai wrote in a client note. \"We believe Samsung leads HTC in most high-end models, including LTE phones, where HTC has failed to compete on form factor.\"Gartner's Lu, however, sees little risk of HTC going the way of Nokia.\"Basically, HTC is on the right track, but it will take time for its brand- and retail-building. It's in way better shape than LG, RIM and Motorola. But it's true it's not as competitive as Apple or Samsung.\"Annie Lu, a spokeswoman for HTC, said the company remained confident about driving new technologies. \"HTC has a strong and complete portfolio in both high-end/premium and mass market high quality products,\" she told Reuters.\"With our US operator partners, we have launched premium products such as HTC Rezound (with Verizon Wireless) and HTC Vivid (with AT&T), with high customer satisfaction ratings. In the mass market sector, HTC Wildfire has been a big hit this year, and we expect strong sales with the HTC Explorer launch.\"", "tags": ["Smartphones", "Intellectual property", "Samsung", "Apple", "iPhone", "Technology", "Nokia", "Mobile phones", "Telecommunications industry", "Telecoms", "Business", "Technology sector", "HTC"], "title": "HTC phone sales face halt in Germany"},{"date": "2011-11-21T15:45:41Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Two Ukranian boxing brothers have teamed up with Sylvester Stallone to stage a musical version of Rocky in Hamburg, Germany.Stallone said he had long thought that a musical transfer for the 1976 Oscar-winning drama was a good idea, in particular if its romantic side was amped up. \"At the end of the day, Rocky is a love story and he could never have reached the final bell without Adrian. To see this story coming to life on a musical stage makes me proud. And it would make Rocky proud.\"Numbers which will move from the film to the stage version include Eye of the Tiger and Gonna Fly Now, although it's not clear whether they will be translated into German, the language in which the musical has been written. Gonna Fly Now, the main theme tune, was written by Bill Conti, who composed the bulk of the soundtrack, and made the No 1 spot on the US Billboard list for one week in 1977.Vitali and Wladimir Klitschko will co-produce the musical along with Stallone and train the lead actor, who has not yet been cast. Stallone, whose career was launched by Rocky, and who has previously sung in films such as Rhinestone, is unlikely to be cast himself.The brothers, whose own story has been committed to film, told how they had been fans of the film as children.\"Seeing Sylvester Stallone in Rocky when we were kids actually was the reason for us to start boxing in the first place, he said. \"We are very excited to support this theatrical project.\"The musical will open in November 2012.", "tags": ["Sylvester Stallone", "Action and adventure", "Film", "Drama", "Boxing", "Musicals", "Theatre", "Stage", "Culture"], "title": "Rocky the Musical to debut in Germany"},{"date": "2011-11-16T12:43:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It was in February 2000 that Vodafone, under the empire building Sir Christopher Gent, won the world's biggest ever takeover battle. Germany's Mannesmann succumbed to the British group's advances, following a bitter battle that had drawn in regulators, politicians and trade unions.A decade later, some investors are urging Vodafone's current boss, Vittorio Colao, to launch a new campaign on German soil. If Europe's largest economy allows consolidation, from the current four to three operators, the assumption is that a wave of deals will follow throughout Europe, leaving many countries served by just two or three networks.Should Colao heed the calls? And if he does, will consumers throughout Europe just end up paying more for the same services?Colao indicated this month that he was open to the idea of further consolidation in Germany, whether by Vodafone or another operator. Since winning the top job Colao has spent the last three years trimming rather than acquiring.That process is nearing its end. Minority interests have been disposed of, and Vodafone there are signs that Vodafone has begun to stir itself into expansion mode. It is already in talks to merge its Greek operations with a local rival and considering an acquisition in Spain.Vodafone is rich enough to pay out the highest dividends of any UK blue-chip stock. Its subsidiary Verizon Wireless, America's largest operator in which Vodafone owns a 45% stake, has finally restarted dividend payments, and is likely to hand over billions each year.The theory put forward by some industry watchers, including respected analyst Robin Bienenstock at Bernstein Research, is that Vodafone must act soon in Germany or not at all. This is because Angela Merkel's regulators will be most open to the idea of a lessening of competition while Deutsche Telekom is trying to salvage a $39bn deal to sell T-Mobile's US business to AT&T.The Department of Justice has filed a lawsuit to block the merger. There are a multitude of local mobile phone operators in the US, but only four national ones. The deal would put AT&T's 95.5m subscribers together with T-Mobile's 33.7m, giving them 42% of the 300m-plus customer base, and leaving today's number one operator, Verizon Wireless, with 32%.In the face of legal action by the DoJ, most businesses would simply walk away. But AT&T is one of the most powerful lobbyists on Capitol Hill, and its lavish donations to special interest groups over the years have seen it garner support for the merger from some unlikely quarters.The National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People, a powerful mobiliser of the black vote, has written to regulators in support of the deal. Will Barack Obama risk a battle with AT&T during his re-election campaign next year?The DoJ court case is scheduled for 13 February, will take six weeks, and a possible further six months for appeals to be heard. Germany would be foolish to resist a reduction from four to three operators in its home market while arguing for the same in America.The target for Vodafone, Bienenstock believes, is most likely O2. Its parent company, Telefonica, has made no noises about selling but is struggling with a large debt burden and may welcome the cash.O2 in Germany has just 18m customers, roughly the same as its KPN owned rival E-Plus. T-Mobile is the market leader with 39m, and Vodafone has nearly 35m customers. The merger would give Vodafone a market share of just under 50%.There are risks to being the consolidator. When T-Mobile and Orange joined forces in the UK, the companies lost momentum and customers. On the plus side, for the operators rather than the consumers, prices have increased and customer defections have reduced. The UK market has market become a more profitable one.What consumers must be wary of is that three players can reduce very quickly to two. In Germany, a marriage between Vodafone and O2 would leave E-Plus looking very small vulnerable \u2013 just as Three in the UK looks now, with about 10% of the market.British regulators have been keen to keep prices low by ensuring all four operators come away with a viable amount of spectrum from the forthcoming 4G airwaves auction. That line may be difficult to hold if Germany relaxes its rules in a way that benefits a major British company.As smartphones fly off the shelves, demand for better mobile internet will go through the roof. And consumers will want access to it wherever they are in the UK. Trials suggest 4G will be 10 times as fast as 3G, which users find frustratingly slow compared with the average home broadband connection.Should further consolidation be allowed, regulators around Europe would be wise to impose a properly policed obligation to create a wide ranging 4G network on the merging companies.Gent's glory days have gone. The Mannesmann deal made Vodafone worth \u00a3225bn, double the value of any other UK company. Since then, excitement about the world dominating potential of mobile phone companies has cooled a little, and Vodafone's shares are valued at \u00a392bn. A new move on Germany would cause a stir, but not on the scale of a decade ago.", "tags": ["Telecoms", "Technology", "Vodafone", "T-Mobile", "Telecommunications industry", "Business", "Media business", "Media"], "title": "Will Vodafone make a move in Germany?"},{"date": "2011-10-06T18:27:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany's economy minister, Philipp R\u00f6sler, arrived in Athens on Thursday with businessmen, entrepreneurs, financiers and green energy experts in what was billed as a potentially groundbreaking visit to draw badly needed investment into the debt-stricken country.The prospect of German business reviving Greece's economy might have seemed far-fetched not long ago: at 109 in the World Bank's \"ease of doing business\" index, the nation ranks below Bangladesh, Ethiopia and Yemen. Foreign direct investment in the country was on a par with that of Libya before the outbreak of war.But like all great crises, Greece's debt drama has also provided opportunities. Before departing Berlin, R\u00f6sler, who had previously advocated an \"orderly bankruptcy\" for Athens, said he hoped the visit would \"act as a door-opener, so that personal contacts can be made\".\"In the spirit of solidarity, it is the task of all Europeans to help Greece get back on its feet economically,\" he told the German broadcaster ZDF. \"And we want to take German firms to Greece,\" he added, where the crisis was both about \"debt \u2026 and the lack of economic competitiveness\".With markets far from convinced that Greece will be spared a default 17 months after it secured \u20ac110bn (\u00a397bn) in rescue funds, Athens faces a tough sell. As the German delegation flew into the capital, the prime minister, George Papandreou, was working at breakneck speed to push a draconian austerity package through parliament \u2013 a condition made by the European Union, International Monetary Fund and European Central Bank, the country's creditors, in return for further aid.But while rampant corruption, a notorious bureaucracy and a weak justice system have also played a major part in keeping foreign firms out of the European Union state, the ruling socialists are also hoping the country's abundant sunshine can attract German renewable energy companies. Among the 60 business leaders travelling with R\u00f6sler are several from the alternative energy sector, which, if expanded, could see foreign lenders help kickstart Greece's recession-hit economy along with tourism and food processing.Plans are also afoot to develop about 20,000 hectares of solar power parks for exporting renewable energy to Germany, according to media reports.With the Greek economy poised to contract for a fourth consecutive year, officials say green energy could create 60,000 jobs at a time of record unemployment.In the wake of Japan's Fukushima nuclear disaster, the decision of the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, to close all 17 German nuclear reactors by 2022, alternative sources of energy are set to become increasingly important for Berlin.\"Greece could become the showcase of solar development in Europe's 'sun belt' and that development could become the main driver of Greece's green economic growth,\" said Costas Karayiannis, chief executive of Greece's only solar energy investment fund, Axeon Navitas. \"Germany is the global leader in solar energy and it has a lot less sun than Greece. It makes a lot of sense for it to invest in this type of project here.\"Most Greeks are not sure what to think, preferring to see what emerges from R\u00f6sler's visit. Memories of Nazi rule in a country that saw one of the most brutal German occupations during the second world war are never far away \u2013 even if Berlin has emerged as the main provider of the bailout that has so far enabled Greece to avert bankruptcy.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Business", "European monetary union", "European Union", "Global economy", "Economics", "Global recession", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European Central Bank", "Solar power", "Environment", "Energy industry", "Energy"], "title": "Greece hopes to sell sunshine to Germany"},{"date": "2011-12-08T18:01:42Z", "country": "germany", "content": "\"On this day 90 years ago, on 6 December 1921, the treaty was signed. The treaty restored Ireland's sovereignty [and] the British conceded fiscal autonomy to Ireland.\" These were the opening words by Ireland's minister of finance, Michael Noonan, in his first budget speech since the Fine Gael/Labour coalition came to power last February. Negotiated in 10 Downing Street and signed by David Lloyd George, Winston Churchill and Austen Chamberlain, the Anglo-Irish treaty created the Irish Free State. Michael Collins, a personal hero of both Noonan and the taoiseach, Enda Kenny, was one of the chief Irish signatories.Sovereignty has emotional resonance in Ireland. The consequence of the loss of financial independence is a fourth austerity budget. Since the economic crisis began in 2008, some \u20ac25bn, almost 15% of current gross domestic product, has been wiped out of the Irish economy. But this marks only the halfway point under the IMF-ECB-EU programme. Noonan and the Labour party minister for expenditure, Brendan Howlin, announced a \u20ac3.8bn adjustment this week, as required by troika agreement. This time around, the targets included the most marginalised and vulnerable in Irish society. In a scatter-gun approach, \u20ac2bn in stinging spending cuts were declared. This ranged from cuts to fuel benefit for poor families, widows' pensions, one-parent payments and child benefit.The coalition's commitment not to raise income tax was honoured and \u20ac1.6bn in extra revenue was instead raised through consumption and capital taxes which inevitably hit the lowest-income groups, according to the opposition parties.The government blames these choices on the fiscal straitjacket imposed by the troika. The failings of the previous Fianna Fail/Green coalition have served as a useful narrative by the current government to act as if in opposition.\"This is the budget of a puppet government, which is doing what it has been told to do by the IMF, the EU commission and the European Central Bank\" proclaimed Noonan to his predecessor, the late Brian Lenihan, at last year's budget speech. Nonetheless, Fine Gael and Labour have been in power for nine months and now the public feels they have to take ownership of the painful decisions that have been made.One of those is the 2010 Croke Park agreement between the public sector unions and the last government. The current coalition chose to leave public sector wages and pensions untouched. While benefits to the silent minority of the disabled, the poor and infirm were slashed, public sector workers will receive \u20ac300m in pay increases. So there have been no large-scale protests like those in Athens, but the honeymoon is certainly over.Although it has the largest majority in the history of the state, the stability of the coalition is being tested. A commitment to re-examine cuts to disability allowances were announced the day after they were made. Three Labour MPs, including a minister of state, have lost the whip following their opposition in recent months to swingeing cuts in public spending.The coalition's biggest test, however, is yet to come.Kenny has publicly opposed suggestions by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, in advance of the crisis European summit on Friday, that treaty changes are necessary to deal with eurozone governance. The Irish constitution requires that European treaty change must be passed by referendum \u2013 a near-impossible feat given the tide of growing Euroscepticism in Ireland.In the first televised address by a prime minister for 25 years, Kenny told a record Irish audience on Sunday, \"I want to be the taoiseach who retrieves Ireland's economic sovereignty.\" Irish acquiescence to treaty change in return for a European gesture of Irish debt forgiveness may go some way towards righting the balance. There are certainly parallels with 90 years ago \u2013 but whether the results for Ireland will be as happy remain to be seen.", "tags": ["Ireland", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Euro", "Economics", "European monetary union", "Business", "Austerity"], "title": "An Irish budget, made in Germany? | Elaine Byrne"},{"date": "2011-11-28T07:46:49Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Taiwanese technology company HTC faces the bleak prospect of seeing sales of all its smartphones blocked from sale in Germany during the crucial Christmas period, after it withdrew its objections to a patent claim won by the German firm IPCom in February 2009 in a Mannheim court.HTC's appeal against the 2009 decision was due to be decided on this week. Its withdrawal means that the fourth-largest smartphone maker in the world could see its sales halted in the country. IPCom said in a statement that it \"now intends to execute this injunction in the shortest possible time\" and that: \"We will use the right awarded by the courts, likely resulting in HTC devices disappearing from shops during the crucial Christmas season.\"The announcement comes just weeks after HTC warned that its revenues could fall by much more the 8% in this quarter compared to the third quarter due to intensifying competition in the smartphone market from Samsung and Apple at the high end, and Chinese mainland companies at the low end.To some, it indicates that the company faces a serious challenge to its future growth. HTC claimed that its appeal would have been redundant, as a German patent court has questioned the validity of the patent in the 2009 decision.IPCom acquired Bosch's mobile telephony patent portfolio, created between the mid-1980s and 2000, which includes about 160 patent families worldwide, including some of the key patents in the wireless industry \u2013 such as \"patent 100\", which standardises a mobile phone's first connection to a network. IPCom has battled for years against HTC and the giant Finnish mobile company Nokia in European courts.Analysts and lawyers said HTC's withdrawal gives it time to battle against two other patents which could have been decided upon next week, while it can still try to delay the original injunction. However, the German patent expert and blogger Florian M\u00fcller said that \"while HTC can try to oppose the enforcement of the injunction, my research shows that the odds are very long against HTC on this one\". The sales disruption in Germany, one of Europe's largest smartphone markets \u2013 but where penetration is still only around 30%, indicating huge potential for growth \u2013 comes at a time when HTC is struggling to hold on to its position on the smartphone market.\"This represents an unwelcome distraction during an already difficult quarter for HTC,\" said CCS Insight analyst Geoff Blaber.Late last month, HTC warned that revenue would fall by up to 8% in October-December from the third quarter, and this week it flagged a much bigger drop, citing tougher competition and the global downturn. HTC's stock has fallen 30% in eight straight trading days.With Nokia's fall from market dominance still fresh in the memory, and BlackBerry maker Research in Motion losing ground, HTC needs to recapture its innovative drive to make sure it maintains its position, say analysts.\"It won't be easy for HTC to get out of the mess it's in right now,\" said Simon Liu, deputy investment officer at Polaris Group's fund unit. \"Still, it's not the end of HTC. It's certainly not another Nokia. Nokia missed out on the smartphone market from the very beginning, and didn't develop applications as well as Apple.\"For a decade, Taiwan's HTC quietly made phones for others to sell, but then decided to push its own brand in late 2006. In the year to April, its shares more than tripled after its innovative designs played well with shoppers.Sales of phone models including Desire, Sensation, Wildfire, Rhyme and ChaCha grew fourfold in just 18 months, and in the third quarter of this year it sold more smartphones in the US than any of its rivals.But its cracking performance is sputtering as it fails to bring out new products to rival the iPhone and Samsung's Galaxy in the high-end smartphone market.Closer to home, China's ZTE and Huawei Technologies Co are turning out smartphones that sell for as little as $100 (\u00a365) to target the low end of the business, a fast-growth market that HTC so far has largely avoided.\"It lacks a star smartphone,\" said CK Lu, an analyst with research firm Gartner in Taipei. \"If you put HTC phones all in a line, you won't be able to differentiate the products too clearly, unlike Samsung's Galaxy 2 or the iPhone. In China, for example, consumers won't be able to differentiate HTC phones from a slew of others, such as the China-made ones, and that's where HTC is facing some problems.\"HTC, valued at around $14bn, saw a bigger buildup of unsold inventory than rivals in the third quarter, a portent of weak sales in the crucial year-end holiday season.\"Aside from rising competition from Apple and Samsung in the high-end market, aggressive price competition from Huawei and ZTE at the lower-end could put further pressure on HTC's margin,\" said Laura Chen, analyst at BNP Paribas. \"We believe HTC is reviewing its product roadmap to regain market share in 2012. However, most of its new products are to be launched only late in the first quarter.\"HTC is also re-evaluating its $300m acquisition of S3 Graphics after the graphics technology firm lost a legal battle in the US against Apple, which raises the spectre that HTC products could be banned from the US \u2013 where it earns half its revenue. HTC had planned to buy S3 to beef up its defences in its own separate lawsuit battle with Apple.\"Winning the lawsuit has made it possible for Apple to squeeze HTC by the neck in future,\" said Liu at Polaris.HTC was the company that infuriated Steve Jobs, Apple's late co-founder and chief executive, when in January 2010 it introduced an Android phone that he alleged assimilated a number of iPhone features. On seeing it he told Eric Schmidt, then chief executive of Google, that he would try to wipe out Android. However the iPCom lawsuit has been running since long before that, and there is no indication that Apple was involved in its inception.HTC's shares are down more than 60% in six months, making it the worst performer among major handset firms, along with RIM. Shares in LG Electronics are down 36% and Nokia 29%. Samsung and Apple both rose around 9% in that period.Five analysts now have \"sell\" ratings on HTC, up from two just a month ago. The number of \"buy\" recommendations has dropped to nine from 13, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. HTC shares fell by the most allowed in one day last Friday, dropping nearly 7% for a second consecutive session.The company, which had 10.8% global market share in the third quarter, sold only 1m more phones than RIM, and its market share gap with bigger rivals is expected to widen as Nokia fights back with its first Windows Phone-based models.\"HTC hasn't offered enough new models, and hasn't been aggressive in its pricing strategy,\" Barclays analyst Dale Gai wrote in a client note. \"We believe Samsung leads HTC in most high-end models, including LTE phones, where HTC has failed to compete on form factor.\"Gartner's Lu, however, sees little risk of HTC going the way of Nokia.\"Basically, HTC is on the right track, but it will take time for its brand- and retail-building. It's in way better shape than LG, RIM and Motorola. But it's true it's not as competitive as Apple or Samsung.\"Annie Lu, a spokeswoman for HTC, said the company remained confident about driving new technologies. \"HTC has a strong and complete portfolio in both high-end/premium and mass market high quality products,\" she told Reuters.\"With our US operator partners, we have launched premium products such as HTC Rezound (with Verizon Wireless) and HTC Vivid (with AT&T), with high customer satisfaction ratings. In the mass market sector, HTC Wildfire has been a big hit this year, and we expect strong sales with the HTC Explorer launch.\"", "tags": ["Smartphones", "Intellectual property", "Samsung", "Apple", "iPhone", "Technology", "Nokia", "Mobile phones", "Telecommunications industry", "Telecoms", "Business", "Technology sector", "HTC"], "title": "HTC phone sales face halt in Germany"},{"date": "2011-11-21T15:45:41Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Two Ukranian boxing brothers have teamed up with Sylvester Stallone to stage a musical version of Rocky in Hamburg, Germany.Stallone said he had long thought that a musical transfer for the 1976 Oscar-winning drama was a good idea, in particular if its romantic side was amped up. \"At the end of the day, Rocky is a love story and he could never have reached the final bell without Adrian. To see this story coming to life on a musical stage makes me proud. And it would make Rocky proud.\"Numbers which will move from the film to the stage version include Eye of the Tiger and Gonna Fly Now, although it's not clear whether they will be translated into German, the language in which the musical has been written. Gonna Fly Now, the main theme tune, was written by Bill Conti, who composed the bulk of the soundtrack, and made the No 1 spot on the US Billboard list for one week in 1977.Vitali and Wladimir Klitschko will co-produce the musical along with Stallone and train the lead actor, who has not yet been cast. Stallone, whose career was launched by Rocky, and who has previously sung in films such as Rhinestone, is unlikely to be cast himself.The brothers, whose own story has been committed to film, told how they had been fans of the film as children.\"Seeing Sylvester Stallone in Rocky when we were kids actually was the reason for us to start boxing in the first place, he said. \"We are very excited to support this theatrical project.\"The musical will open in November 2012.", "tags": ["Sylvester Stallone", "Action and adventure", "Film", "Drama", "Boxing", "Musicals", "Theatre", "Stage", "Culture"], "title": "Rocky the Musical to debut in Germany"},{"date": "2011-11-16T12:43:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It was in February 2000 that Vodafone, under the empire building Sir Christopher Gent, won the world's biggest ever takeover battle. Germany's Mannesmann succumbed to the British group's advances, following a bitter battle that had drawn in regulators, politicians and trade unions.A decade later, some investors are urging Vodafone's current boss, Vittorio Colao, to launch a new campaign on German soil. If Europe's largest economy allows consolidation, from the current four to three operators, the assumption is that a wave of deals will follow throughout Europe, leaving many countries served by just two or three networks.Should Colao heed the calls? And if he does, will consumers throughout Europe just end up paying more for the same services?Colao indicated this month that he was open to the idea of further consolidation in Germany, whether by Vodafone or another operator. Since winning the top job Colao has spent the last three years trimming rather than acquiring.That process is nearing its end. Minority interests have been disposed of, and Vodafone there are signs that Vodafone has begun to stir itself into expansion mode. It is already in talks to merge its Greek operations with a local rival and considering an acquisition in Spain.Vodafone is rich enough to pay out the highest dividends of any UK blue-chip stock. Its subsidiary Verizon Wireless, America's largest operator in which Vodafone owns a 45% stake, has finally restarted dividend payments, and is likely to hand over billions each year.The theory put forward by some industry watchers, including respected analyst Robin Bienenstock at Bernstein Research, is that Vodafone must act soon in Germany or not at all. This is because Angela Merkel's regulators will be most open to the idea of a lessening of competition while Deutsche Telekom is trying to salvage a $39bn deal to sell T-Mobile's US business to AT&T.The Department of Justice has filed a lawsuit to block the merger. There are a multitude of local mobile phone operators in the US, but only four national ones. The deal would put AT&T's 95.5m subscribers together with T-Mobile's 33.7m, giving them 42% of the 300m-plus customer base, and leaving today's number one operator, Verizon Wireless, with 32%.In the face of legal action by the DoJ, most businesses would simply walk away. But AT&T is one of the most powerful lobbyists on Capitol Hill, and its lavish donations to special interest groups over the years have seen it garner support for the merger from some unlikely quarters.The National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People, a powerful mobiliser of the black vote, has written to regulators in support of the deal. Will Barack Obama risk a battle with AT&T during his re-election campaign next year?The DoJ court case is scheduled for 13 February, will take six weeks, and a possible further six months for appeals to be heard. Germany would be foolish to resist a reduction from four to three operators in its home market while arguing for the same in America.The target for Vodafone, Bienenstock believes, is most likely O2. Its parent company, Telefonica, has made no noises about selling but is struggling with a large debt burden and may welcome the cash.O2 in Germany has just 18m customers, roughly the same as its KPN owned rival E-Plus. T-Mobile is the market leader with 39m, and Vodafone has nearly 35m customers. The merger would give Vodafone a market share of just under 50%.There are risks to being the consolidator. When T-Mobile and Orange joined forces in the UK, the companies lost momentum and customers. On the plus side, for the operators rather than the consumers, prices have increased and customer defections have reduced. The UK market has market become a more profitable one.What consumers must be wary of is that three players can reduce very quickly to two. In Germany, a marriage between Vodafone and O2 would leave E-Plus looking very small vulnerable \u2013 just as Three in the UK looks now, with about 10% of the market.British regulators have been keen to keep prices low by ensuring all four operators come away with a viable amount of spectrum from the forthcoming 4G airwaves auction. That line may be difficult to hold if Germany relaxes its rules in a way that benefits a major British company.As smartphones fly off the shelves, demand for better mobile internet will go through the roof. And consumers will want access to it wherever they are in the UK. Trials suggest 4G will be 10 times as fast as 3G, which users find frustratingly slow compared with the average home broadband connection.Should further consolidation be allowed, regulators around Europe would be wise to impose a properly policed obligation to create a wide ranging 4G network on the merging companies.Gent's glory days have gone. The Mannesmann deal made Vodafone worth \u00a3225bn, double the value of any other UK company. Since then, excitement about the world dominating potential of mobile phone companies has cooled a little, and Vodafone's shares are valued at \u00a392bn. A new move on Germany would cause a stir, but not on the scale of a decade ago.", "tags": ["Telecoms", "Technology", "Vodafone", "T-Mobile", "Telecommunications industry", "Business", "Media business", "Media"], "title": "Will Vodafone make a move in Germany?"},{"date": "2011-11-16T10:57:29Z", "country": "germany", "content": "More damaging evidence has emerged of the German authorities' failure to stop a group of neo-Nazi terrorists who killed 10 people, robbed 14 banks and planted two nail bombs during 13 years on the run.On Tuesday, the Hessen branch of the domestic intelligence service, the Verfassungsschutz, or BfV, admitted that one of its agents had been present in April 2006 when two members of the National Socialist Underground (NSU) shot dead a 21-year-old Turk in an internet caf\u00e9.It has now emerged that the agent, who was transferred to less-sensitive work following an investigation at the time, openly held rightwing views and was known in the village where he grew up as \"Little Adolf\". When police raided his flat following the murder, they found a cache of guns, for which he had a legitimate licence, and extracts from Mein Kampf, according to Der Spiegel. There are unconfirmed reports that the man was present at three or more other neo-Nazi murder scenes.Hajo Funke, one of Germany's most foremost experts in rightwing extremism, said on ARD television: \"It can't be ruled out that his BfV employee took part in the murder, and that is a scandal.\" He has called the case \"a Watergate-scale\" crisis for German secret intelligence.The interior minister, Hans-Peter Friedrich, has called for a national register listing all neo-Nazis. The database should hold \"information about potentially violent rightwing extremists and rightwing politically motivated acts of violence\", he told the S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung. It should be accessible to all 16 regional branches of the domestic intelligence service, as well as the national umbrella organisation, plus police authorities, he said.Following the discovery of the terror cell's base in the quiet town of Zwickau, near the Czech border, the German government is under pressure to explain how the group managed to carry out their murderous acts undetected for so long. The two men and one woman believed to be founder members of the NSU were known to police in their home town of Jena, east Germany, after a bomb-making factory was discovered in the garage rented by the woman, Beate Zsch\u00e4pe, in 1998.The local branch of the Thuringian secret service allegedly had 24 lever-arch files on the trio and yet they only uncovered the cell years after they carried out at least 10 murders \u2013 and after the men were found dead, apparently following a joint suicide pact, and Zsch\u00e4pe turned herself in to police.Zsch\u00e4pe has remained silent since turning herself in to police last week, but some local media reports suggested she had told police she was ready to be interviewed about her involvement on Wednesday.On Tuesday evening, Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU) voted at its party conference in Leipzig for a ban on the NPD (German Nationalist party), a legal far-right group which has seats in a number of local parliaments in former east Germany. The opposition Social Democrat (SPD) party has also called for the NPD to be outlawed.Such calls have been criticised by politicians in Merkel's own coalition. Hans-Peter Uhl, an expert in interior security from the CSU, the Bavarian sister party of the CDU, said: \"There is no better sign of democracy than for the electorate to vote against the NPD at elections,\" he said. \"That's the most noble way.\"Uhl said it would be better for Germany's strict data protection laws to be changed to allow detectives to analyse communications. \"The whole country is wondering how big the neo-Nazi quagmire is in Germany. Without using internet and telephone data collected from the Zwickau cell that is going to be difficult to establish,\" he told the Neue Osnabr\u00fccke Zeitung.Earlier this week Merkel described the case as a \"disgrace\" for Germany.\u2022 This article was amended on 16 November 2011 because the original said NPD stands for German Democratic party. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["The far right", "Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Neo-Nazi terror scandal grows in Germany"},{"date": "2011-10-06T18:27:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany's economy minister, Philipp R\u00f6sler, arrived in Athens on Thursday with businessmen, entrepreneurs, financiers and green energy experts in what was billed as a potentially groundbreaking visit to draw badly needed investment into the debt-stricken country.The prospect of German business reviving Greece's economy might have seemed far-fetched not long ago: at 109 in the World Bank's \"ease of doing business\" index, the nation ranks below Bangladesh, Ethiopia and Yemen. Foreign direct investment in the country was on a par with that of Libya before the outbreak of war.But like all great crises, Greece's debt drama has also provided opportunities. Before departing Berlin, R\u00f6sler, who had previously advocated an \"orderly bankruptcy\" for Athens, said he hoped the visit would \"act as a door-opener, so that personal contacts can be made\".\"In the spirit of solidarity, it is the task of all Europeans to help Greece get back on its feet economically,\" he told the German broadcaster ZDF. \"And we want to take German firms to Greece,\" he added, where the crisis was both about \"debt \u2026 and the lack of economic competitiveness\".With markets far from convinced that Greece will be spared a default 17 months after it secured \u20ac110bn (\u00a397bn) in rescue funds, Athens faces a tough sell. As the German delegation flew into the capital, the prime minister, George Papandreou, was working at breakneck speed to push a draconian austerity package through parliament \u2013 a condition made by the European Union, International Monetary Fund and European Central Bank, the country's creditors, in return for further aid.But while rampant corruption, a notorious bureaucracy and a weak justice system have also played a major part in keeping foreign firms out of the European Union state, the ruling socialists are also hoping the country's abundant sunshine can attract German renewable energy companies. Among the 60 business leaders travelling with R\u00f6sler are several from the alternative energy sector, which, if expanded, could see foreign lenders help kickstart Greece's recession-hit economy along with tourism and food processing.Plans are also afoot to develop about 20,000 hectares of solar power parks for exporting renewable energy to Germany, according to media reports.With the Greek economy poised to contract for a fourth consecutive year, officials say green energy could create 60,000 jobs at a time of record unemployment.In the wake of Japan's Fukushima nuclear disaster, the decision of the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, to close all 17 German nuclear reactors by 2022, alternative sources of energy are set to become increasingly important for Berlin.\"Greece could become the showcase of solar development in Europe's 'sun belt' and that development could become the main driver of Greece's green economic growth,\" said Costas Karayiannis, chief executive of Greece's only solar energy investment fund, Axeon Navitas. \"Germany is the global leader in solar energy and it has a lot less sun than Greece. It makes a lot of sense for it to invest in this type of project here.\"Most Greeks are not sure what to think, preferring to see what emerges from R\u00f6sler's visit. Memories of Nazi rule in a country that saw one of the most brutal German occupations during the second world war are never far away \u2013 even if Berlin has emerged as the main provider of the bailout that has so far enabled Greece to avert bankruptcy.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Business", "European monetary union", "European Union", "Global economy", "Economics", "Global recession", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European Central Bank", "Solar power", "Environment", "Energy industry", "Energy"], "title": "Greece hopes to sell sunshine to Germany"},{"date": "2011-12-08T18:01:42Z", "country": "germany", "content": "\"On this day 90 years ago, on 6 December 1921, the treaty was signed. The treaty restored Ireland's sovereignty [and] the British conceded fiscal autonomy to Ireland.\" These were the opening words by Ireland's minister of finance, Michael Noonan, in his first budget speech since the Fine Gael/Labour coalition came to power last February. Negotiated in 10 Downing Street and signed by David Lloyd George, Winston Churchill and Austen Chamberlain, the Anglo-Irish treaty created the Irish Free State. Michael Collins, a personal hero of both Noonan and the taoiseach, Enda Kenny, was one of the chief Irish signatories.Sovereignty has emotional resonance in Ireland. The consequence of the loss of financial independence is a fourth austerity budget. Since the economic crisis began in 2008, some \u20ac25bn, almost 15% of current gross domestic product, has been wiped out of the Irish economy. But this marks only the halfway point under the IMF-ECB-EU programme. Noonan and the Labour party minister for expenditure, Brendan Howlin, announced a \u20ac3.8bn adjustment this week, as required by troika agreement. This time around, the targets included the most marginalised and vulnerable in Irish society. In a scatter-gun approach, \u20ac2bn in stinging spending cuts were declared. This ranged from cuts to fuel benefit for poor families, widows' pensions, one-parent payments and child benefit.The coalition's commitment not to raise income tax was honoured and \u20ac1.6bn in extra revenue was instead raised through consumption and capital taxes which inevitably hit the lowest-income groups, according to the opposition parties.The government blames these choices on the fiscal straitjacket imposed by the troika. The failings of the previous Fianna Fail/Green coalition have served as a useful narrative by the current government to act as if in opposition.\"This is the budget of a puppet government, which is doing what it has been told to do by the IMF, the EU commission and the European Central Bank\" proclaimed Noonan to his predecessor, the late Brian Lenihan, at last year's budget speech. Nonetheless, Fine Gael and Labour have been in power for nine months and now the public feels they have to take ownership of the painful decisions that have been made.One of those is the 2010 Croke Park agreement between the public sector unions and the last government. The current coalition chose to leave public sector wages and pensions untouched. While benefits to the silent minority of the disabled, the poor and infirm were slashed, public sector workers will receive \u20ac300m in pay increases. So there have been no large-scale protests like those in Athens, but the honeymoon is certainly over.Although it has the largest majority in the history of the state, the stability of the coalition is being tested. A commitment to re-examine cuts to disability allowances were announced the day after they were made. Three Labour MPs, including a minister of state, have lost the whip following their opposition in recent months to swingeing cuts in public spending.The coalition's biggest test, however, is yet to come.Kenny has publicly opposed suggestions by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, in advance of the crisis European summit on Friday, that treaty changes are necessary to deal with eurozone governance. The Irish constitution requires that European treaty change must be passed by referendum \u2013 a near-impossible feat given the tide of growing Euroscepticism in Ireland.In the first televised address by a prime minister for 25 years, Kenny told a record Irish audience on Sunday, \"I want to be the taoiseach who retrieves Ireland's economic sovereignty.\" Irish acquiescence to treaty change in return for a European gesture of Irish debt forgiveness may go some way towards righting the balance. There are certainly parallels with 90 years ago \u2013 but whether the results for Ireland will be as happy remain to be seen.", "tags": ["Ireland", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Euro", "Economics", "European monetary union", "Business", "Austerity"], "title": "An Irish budget, made in Germany? | Elaine Byrne"},{"date": "2011-11-28T07:46:49Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Taiwanese technology company HTC faces the bleak prospect of seeing sales of all its smartphones blocked from sale in Germany during the crucial Christmas period, after it withdrew its objections to a patent claim won by the German firm IPCom in February 2009 in a Mannheim court.HTC's appeal against the 2009 decision was due to be decided on this week. Its withdrawal means that the fourth-largest smartphone maker in the world could see its sales halted in the country. IPCom said in a statement that it \"now intends to execute this injunction in the shortest possible time\" and that: \"We will use the right awarded by the courts, likely resulting in HTC devices disappearing from shops during the crucial Christmas season.\"The announcement comes just weeks after HTC warned that its revenues could fall by much more the 8% in this quarter compared to the third quarter due to intensifying competition in the smartphone market from Samsung and Apple at the high end, and Chinese mainland companies at the low end.To some, it indicates that the company faces a serious challenge to its future growth. HTC claimed that its appeal would have been redundant, as a German patent court has questioned the validity of the patent in the 2009 decision.IPCom acquired Bosch's mobile telephony patent portfolio, created between the mid-1980s and 2000, which includes about 160 patent families worldwide, including some of the key patents in the wireless industry \u2013 such as \"patent 100\", which standardises a mobile phone's first connection to a network. IPCom has battled for years against HTC and the giant Finnish mobile company Nokia in European courts.Analysts and lawyers said HTC's withdrawal gives it time to battle against two other patents which could have been decided upon next week, while it can still try to delay the original injunction. However, the German patent expert and blogger Florian M\u00fcller said that \"while HTC can try to oppose the enforcement of the injunction, my research shows that the odds are very long against HTC on this one\". The sales disruption in Germany, one of Europe's largest smartphone markets \u2013 but where penetration is still only around 30%, indicating huge potential for growth \u2013 comes at a time when HTC is struggling to hold on to its position on the smartphone market.\"This represents an unwelcome distraction during an already difficult quarter for HTC,\" said CCS Insight analyst Geoff Blaber.Late last month, HTC warned that revenue would fall by up to 8% in October-December from the third quarter, and this week it flagged a much bigger drop, citing tougher competition and the global downturn. HTC's stock has fallen 30% in eight straight trading days.With Nokia's fall from market dominance still fresh in the memory, and BlackBerry maker Research in Motion losing ground, HTC needs to recapture its innovative drive to make sure it maintains its position, say analysts.\"It won't be easy for HTC to get out of the mess it's in right now,\" said Simon Liu, deputy investment officer at Polaris Group's fund unit. \"Still, it's not the end of HTC. It's certainly not another Nokia. Nokia missed out on the smartphone market from the very beginning, and didn't develop applications as well as Apple.\"For a decade, Taiwan's HTC quietly made phones for others to sell, but then decided to push its own brand in late 2006. In the year to April, its shares more than tripled after its innovative designs played well with shoppers.Sales of phone models including Desire, Sensation, Wildfire, Rhyme and ChaCha grew fourfold in just 18 months, and in the third quarter of this year it sold more smartphones in the US than any of its rivals.But its cracking performance is sputtering as it fails to bring out new products to rival the iPhone and Samsung's Galaxy in the high-end smartphone market.Closer to home, China's ZTE and Huawei Technologies Co are turning out smartphones that sell for as little as $100 (\u00a365) to target the low end of the business, a fast-growth market that HTC so far has largely avoided.\"It lacks a star smartphone,\" said CK Lu, an analyst with research firm Gartner in Taipei. \"If you put HTC phones all in a line, you won't be able to differentiate the products too clearly, unlike Samsung's Galaxy 2 or the iPhone. In China, for example, consumers won't be able to differentiate HTC phones from a slew of others, such as the China-made ones, and that's where HTC is facing some problems.\"HTC, valued at around $14bn, saw a bigger buildup of unsold inventory than rivals in the third quarter, a portent of weak sales in the crucial year-end holiday season.\"Aside from rising competition from Apple and Samsung in the high-end market, aggressive price competition from Huawei and ZTE at the lower-end could put further pressure on HTC's margin,\" said Laura Chen, analyst at BNP Paribas. \"We believe HTC is reviewing its product roadmap to regain market share in 2012. However, most of its new products are to be launched only late in the first quarter.\"HTC is also re-evaluating its $300m acquisition of S3 Graphics after the graphics technology firm lost a legal battle in the US against Apple, which raises the spectre that HTC products could be banned from the US \u2013 where it earns half its revenue. HTC had planned to buy S3 to beef up its defences in its own separate lawsuit battle with Apple.\"Winning the lawsuit has made it possible for Apple to squeeze HTC by the neck in future,\" said Liu at Polaris.HTC was the company that infuriated Steve Jobs, Apple's late co-founder and chief executive, when in January 2010 it introduced an Android phone that he alleged assimilated a number of iPhone features. On seeing it he told Eric Schmidt, then chief executive of Google, that he would try to wipe out Android. However the iPCom lawsuit has been running since long before that, and there is no indication that Apple was involved in its inception.HTC's shares are down more than 60% in six months, making it the worst performer among major handset firms, along with RIM. Shares in LG Electronics are down 36% and Nokia 29%. Samsung and Apple both rose around 9% in that period.Five analysts now have \"sell\" ratings on HTC, up from two just a month ago. The number of \"buy\" recommendations has dropped to nine from 13, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. HTC shares fell by the most allowed in one day last Friday, dropping nearly 7% for a second consecutive session.The company, which had 10.8% global market share in the third quarter, sold only 1m more phones than RIM, and its market share gap with bigger rivals is expected to widen as Nokia fights back with its first Windows Phone-based models.\"HTC hasn't offered enough new models, and hasn't been aggressive in its pricing strategy,\" Barclays analyst Dale Gai wrote in a client note. \"We believe Samsung leads HTC in most high-end models, including LTE phones, where HTC has failed to compete on form factor.\"Gartner's Lu, however, sees little risk of HTC going the way of Nokia.\"Basically, HTC is on the right track, but it will take time for its brand- and retail-building. It's in way better shape than LG, RIM and Motorola. But it's true it's not as competitive as Apple or Samsung.\"Annie Lu, a spokeswoman for HTC, said the company remained confident about driving new technologies. \"HTC has a strong and complete portfolio in both high-end/premium and mass market high quality products,\" she told Reuters.\"With our US operator partners, we have launched premium products such as HTC Rezound (with Verizon Wireless) and HTC Vivid (with AT&T), with high customer satisfaction ratings. In the mass market sector, HTC Wildfire has been a big hit this year, and we expect strong sales with the HTC Explorer launch.\"", "tags": ["Smartphones", "Intellectual property", "Samsung", "Apple", "iPhone", "Technology", "Nokia", "Mobile phones", "Telecommunications industry", "Telecoms", "Business", "Technology sector", "HTC"], "title": "HTC phone sales face halt in Germany"},{"date": "2011-11-21T15:45:41Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Two Ukranian boxing brothers have teamed up with Sylvester Stallone to stage a musical version of Rocky in Hamburg, Germany.Stallone said he had long thought that a musical transfer for the 1976 Oscar-winning drama was a good idea, in particular if its romantic side was amped up. \"At the end of the day, Rocky is a love story and he could never have reached the final bell without Adrian. To see this story coming to life on a musical stage makes me proud. And it would make Rocky proud.\"Numbers which will move from the film to the stage version include Eye of the Tiger and Gonna Fly Now, although it's not clear whether they will be translated into German, the language in which the musical has been written. Gonna Fly Now, the main theme tune, was written by Bill Conti, who composed the bulk of the soundtrack, and made the No 1 spot on the US Billboard list for one week in 1977.Vitali and Wladimir Klitschko will co-produce the musical along with Stallone and train the lead actor, who has not yet been cast. Stallone, whose career was launched by Rocky, and who has previously sung in films such as Rhinestone, is unlikely to be cast himself.The brothers, whose own story has been committed to film, told how they had been fans of the film as children.\"Seeing Sylvester Stallone in Rocky when we were kids actually was the reason for us to start boxing in the first place, he said. \"We are very excited to support this theatrical project.\"The musical will open in November 2012.", "tags": ["Sylvester Stallone", "Action and adventure", "Film", "Drama", "Boxing", "Musicals", "Theatre", "Stage", "Culture"], "title": "Rocky the Musical to debut in Germany"},{"date": "2011-11-16T12:43:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It was in February 2000 that Vodafone, under the empire building Sir Christopher Gent, won the world's biggest ever takeover battle. Germany's Mannesmann succumbed to the British group's advances, following a bitter battle that had drawn in regulators, politicians and trade unions.A decade later, some investors are urging Vodafone's current boss, Vittorio Colao, to launch a new campaign on German soil. If Europe's largest economy allows consolidation, from the current four to three operators, the assumption is that a wave of deals will follow throughout Europe, leaving many countries served by just two or three networks.Should Colao heed the calls? And if he does, will consumers throughout Europe just end up paying more for the same services?Colao indicated this month that he was open to the idea of further consolidation in Germany, whether by Vodafone or another operator. Since winning the top job Colao has spent the last three years trimming rather than acquiring.That process is nearing its end. Minority interests have been disposed of, and Vodafone there are signs that Vodafone has begun to stir itself into expansion mode. It is already in talks to merge its Greek operations with a local rival and considering an acquisition in Spain.Vodafone is rich enough to pay out the highest dividends of any UK blue-chip stock. Its subsidiary Verizon Wireless, America's largest operator in which Vodafone owns a 45% stake, has finally restarted dividend payments, and is likely to hand over billions each year.The theory put forward by some industry watchers, including respected analyst Robin Bienenstock at Bernstein Research, is that Vodafone must act soon in Germany or not at all. This is because Angela Merkel's regulators will be most open to the idea of a lessening of competition while Deutsche Telekom is trying to salvage a $39bn deal to sell T-Mobile's US business to AT&T.The Department of Justice has filed a lawsuit to block the merger. There are a multitude of local mobile phone operators in the US, but only four national ones. The deal would put AT&T's 95.5m subscribers together with T-Mobile's 33.7m, giving them 42% of the 300m-plus customer base, and leaving today's number one operator, Verizon Wireless, with 32%.In the face of legal action by the DoJ, most businesses would simply walk away. But AT&T is one of the most powerful lobbyists on Capitol Hill, and its lavish donations to special interest groups over the years have seen it garner support for the merger from some unlikely quarters.The National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People, a powerful mobiliser of the black vote, has written to regulators in support of the deal. Will Barack Obama risk a battle with AT&T during his re-election campaign next year?The DoJ court case is scheduled for 13 February, will take six weeks, and a possible further six months for appeals to be heard. Germany would be foolish to resist a reduction from four to three operators in its home market while arguing for the same in America.The target for Vodafone, Bienenstock believes, is most likely O2. Its parent company, Telefonica, has made no noises about selling but is struggling with a large debt burden and may welcome the cash.O2 in Germany has just 18m customers, roughly the same as its KPN owned rival E-Plus. T-Mobile is the market leader with 39m, and Vodafone has nearly 35m customers. The merger would give Vodafone a market share of just under 50%.There are risks to being the consolidator. When T-Mobile and Orange joined forces in the UK, the companies lost momentum and customers. On the plus side, for the operators rather than the consumers, prices have increased and customer defections have reduced. The UK market has market become a more profitable one.What consumers must be wary of is that three players can reduce very quickly to two. In Germany, a marriage between Vodafone and O2 would leave E-Plus looking very small vulnerable \u2013 just as Three in the UK looks now, with about 10% of the market.British regulators have been keen to keep prices low by ensuring all four operators come away with a viable amount of spectrum from the forthcoming 4G airwaves auction. That line may be difficult to hold if Germany relaxes its rules in a way that benefits a major British company.As smartphones fly off the shelves, demand for better mobile internet will go through the roof. And consumers will want access to it wherever they are in the UK. Trials suggest 4G will be 10 times as fast as 3G, which users find frustratingly slow compared with the average home broadband connection.Should further consolidation be allowed, regulators around Europe would be wise to impose a properly policed obligation to create a wide ranging 4G network on the merging companies.Gent's glory days have gone. The Mannesmann deal made Vodafone worth \u00a3225bn, double the value of any other UK company. Since then, excitement about the world dominating potential of mobile phone companies has cooled a little, and Vodafone's shares are valued at \u00a392bn. A new move on Germany would cause a stir, but not on the scale of a decade ago.", "tags": ["Telecoms", "Technology", "Vodafone", "T-Mobile", "Telecommunications industry", "Business", "Media business", "Media"], "title": "Will Vodafone make a move in Germany?"},{"date": "2011-11-16T10:57:29Z", "country": "germany", "content": "More damaging evidence has emerged of the German authorities' failure to stop a group of neo-Nazi terrorists who killed 10 people, robbed 14 banks and planted two nail bombs during 13 years on the run.On Tuesday, the Hessen branch of the domestic intelligence service, the Verfassungsschutz, or BfV, admitted that one of its agents had been present in April 2006 when two members of the National Socialist Underground (NSU) shot dead a 21-year-old Turk in an internet caf\u00e9.It has now emerged that the agent, who was transferred to less-sensitive work following an investigation at the time, openly held rightwing views and was known in the village where he grew up as \"Little Adolf\". When police raided his flat following the murder, they found a cache of guns, for which he had a legitimate licence, and extracts from Mein Kampf, according to Der Spiegel. There are unconfirmed reports that the man was present at three or more other neo-Nazi murder scenes.Hajo Funke, one of Germany's most foremost experts in rightwing extremism, said on ARD television: \"It can't be ruled out that his BfV employee took part in the murder, and that is a scandal.\" He has called the case \"a Watergate-scale\" crisis for German secret intelligence.The interior minister, Hans-Peter Friedrich, has called for a national register listing all neo-Nazis. The database should hold \"information about potentially violent rightwing extremists and rightwing politically motivated acts of violence\", he told the S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung. It should be accessible to all 16 regional branches of the domestic intelligence service, as well as the national umbrella organisation, plus police authorities, he said.Following the discovery of the terror cell's base in the quiet town of Zwickau, near the Czech border, the German government is under pressure to explain how the group managed to carry out their murderous acts undetected for so long. The two men and one woman believed to be founder members of the NSU were known to police in their home town of Jena, east Germany, after a bomb-making factory was discovered in the garage rented by the woman, Beate Zsch\u00e4pe, in 1998.The local branch of the Thuringian secret service allegedly had 24 lever-arch files on the trio and yet they only uncovered the cell years after they carried out at least 10 murders \u2013 and after the men were found dead, apparently following a joint suicide pact, and Zsch\u00e4pe turned herself in to police.Zsch\u00e4pe has remained silent since turning herself in to police last week, but some local media reports suggested she had told police she was ready to be interviewed about her involvement on Wednesday.On Tuesday evening, Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU) voted at its party conference in Leipzig for a ban on the NPD (German Nationalist party), a legal far-right group which has seats in a number of local parliaments in former east Germany. The opposition Social Democrat (SPD) party has also called for the NPD to be outlawed.Such calls have been criticised by politicians in Merkel's own coalition. Hans-Peter Uhl, an expert in interior security from the CSU, the Bavarian sister party of the CDU, said: \"There is no better sign of democracy than for the electorate to vote against the NPD at elections,\" he said. \"That's the most noble way.\"Uhl said it would be better for Germany's strict data protection laws to be changed to allow detectives to analyse communications. \"The whole country is wondering how big the neo-Nazi quagmire is in Germany. Without using internet and telephone data collected from the Zwickau cell that is going to be difficult to establish,\" he told the Neue Osnabr\u00fccke Zeitung.Earlier this week Merkel described the case as a \"disgrace\" for Germany.\u2022 This article was amended on 16 November 2011 because the original said NPD stands for German Democratic party. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["The far right", "Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Neo-Nazi terror scandal grows in Germany"},{"date": "2011-11-15T21:33:39Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It is make your mind up time for Angela Merkel. Not next year. Not even next month. But this week. The financial markets were ugly on Tuesday, flashing a loud and consistent message: the crisis in the eurozone is no longer confined to the weak Club Med countries but is spreading to the core.Germany has to decide whether to drop its visceral opposition to the European Central Bank acting like a true lender of last resort, or face being blamed for the break-up of the single currency.This is a tough call for Merkel, but what happened in the markets on Tuesday was significant. The loss of confidence in Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal was old news. The new development was that investors were also increasingly wary of lending to those countries that would, along with Germany, form the nucleus of a hard-core euro in the event of a break-up.Interest rates on Belgian, Austrian and French debt rose sharply. There was even pressure on Dutch bonds, traditionally seen as the second safest in the eurozone after German bunds. Bond dealers reported a full-scale run on French bonds.By contrast, Switzerland - the safe haven of choice for nervous investors at present - sold six-month bonds at an interest rate of -0.3%. Investors, in other words, were paying the Swiss government for the privilege of being allowed to lend money to a country seen as rock solid. This is simply a posh way of hiding money under the mattress.The financial markets understand just how critical the situation is, even if the pfennig has yet to drop in Berlin.Dhaval Joshi, at BCA Research, delved into the world of physics to explain Europe's predicament. \"Approaching a black hole, cosmologists define the event horizon as the point beyond which it is impossible to escape a guaranteed ultimate annihilation,\" Joshi said. \"The fascinating thing is you can cross this point of no return without realizing that your doom is certain. So the question is: has the euro area unwittingly crossed its own event horizon? We believe not, although it is getting dangerously close.\"Joshi sent this note out on Monday night. Twenty-four hours later spaceship euro had been sucked even nearer to the edge of the abyss and now faces three interlocking problems. The first is that the financial markets are unconvinced that governments can sort out their public finances. The second is that nobody in Europe shows any sign of taking charge of the problem. Merkel is no Bismarck, Sarkozy no De Gaulle.Finally, there is a problem of time. The markets operate at warp speed, European politics to the gentle rhythms of 19th century diplomacy \u2013 ensuring that policy makers are always behind the bond traders.So what happens now? A complete break-up, although more likely than six weeks ago, is still a remote possibility. If there is one thing likely to make Europe's political class move faster than a giant tortoise it is the prospect of wasting all the political capital invested in monetary union. Logically, therefore, there are only two options left. One is for Merkel, Sarkozy and the rest of the eight-strong Frankfurt Group to work up a Plan B, with a small number of countries joining Germany in a new northern euro and the rest of the current eurozone forming their own satellite zone. But Plan B is unlikely until things look even bleaker for the euro than they do today.Alternatively the ECB has to crank up the printing press to buy enormous quantities of Italian and Spanish bonds, throwing inflationary caution to the wind in the process. This is tough for Germany to swallow, in large part because of the memories of the 1923 hyper-inflation.Behind the scenes, it is said, Merkel is in favour of allowing the ECB to print money but is not prepared to say so.The Bundesbank, Germany's central bank, would certainly oppose anything that smacked of printing money. But that would be irrelevant if a majority of the 23 members of the ECB's governing council decided the emergency was so serious that there was no choice but to act to save monetary union from a collapse of confidence that might trigger bank failures on a massive scale and cause a global slump reminiscent of the 1930s. Such an eventuality looked scarily close on Tuesday night.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Business", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Euro", "Currencies"], "title": "Germany faces crunch time over eurozone crisis"},{"date": "2012-03-05T15:25:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A whole new world of magic animals, brave young princes and evil witches has come to light with the discovery of 500 new fairytales, which were locked away in an archive in Regensburg, Germany for over 150 years. The tales are part of a collection of myths, legends and fairytales, gathered by the local historian Franz Xaver von Sch\u00f6nwerth (1810\u20131886) in the Bavarian region of Oberpfalz at about the same time as the Grimm brothers were collecting the fairytales that have since charmed adults and children around the world.Last year, the Oberpfalz cultural curator Erika Eichenseer published a selection of fairytales from Von Sch\u00f6nwerth's collection, calling the book Prinz Ro\u00dfzwifl. This is local dialect for \"scarab beetle\". The scarab, also known as the \"dung beetle\", buries its most valuable possession, its eggs, in dung, which it then rolls into a ball using its back legs. Eichenseer sees this as symbolic for fairytales, which she says hold the most valuable treasure known to man: ancient knowledge and wisdom to do with human development, testing our limits and salvation.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth spent decades asking country folk, labourers and servants about local habits, traditions, customs and history, and putting down on paper what had only been passed on by word of mouth. In 1885, Jacob Grimm said this about him: \"Nowhere in the whole of Germany is anyone collecting [folklore] so accurately, thoroughly and with such a sensitive ear.\" Grimm went so far as to tell King Maximilian II of Bavaria that the only person who could replace him in his and his brother's work was Von Sch\u00f6nwerth.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth compiled his research into a book called Aus der Oberpfalz \u2013 Sitten und Sagen, which came out in three volumes in 1857, 1858 and 1859. The book never gained prominence and faded into obscurity.While sifting through Von Sch\u00f6nwerth's work, Eichenseer found 500 fairytales, many of which do not appear in other European fairytale collections. For example, there is the tale of a maiden who escapes a witch by transforming herself into a pond. The witch then lies on her stomach and drinks all the water, swallowing the young girl, who uses a knife to cut her way out of the witch. However, the collection also includes local versions of the tales children all over the world have grown up with including Cinderella and Rumpelstiltskin, and which appear in many different versions across Europe.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth was a historian and recorded what he heard faithfully, making no attempt to put a literary gloss on it, which is where he differs from the Grimm brothers. However, says Eichenseer, this factual recording adds to the charm and authenticity of the material. What delights her most about the tales is that they are unpolished. \"There is no romanticising or attempt by Sch\u00f6nwerth to interpret or develop his own style,\" she says.Eichenseer says the fairytales are not for children alone. \"Their main purpose was to help young adults on their path to adulthood, showing them that dangers and challenges can be overcome through virtue, prudence and courage.\"In 2008, Eichenseer helped to found the Franz Xaver von Sch\u00f6nwerth Society, an interdisciplinary committee devoted to analysing his work and publicising it. She is keen to see the tales available in English, and a Munich-based English translator, Dan Szabo, has already begun work on stories ranging from a miserly farmer and a money-mill to a turnip princess.\"Sch\u00f6nwerth's legacy counts as the most significant collection in the German-speaking world in the 19th century,\" says Daniel Drascek, a member of the society and a professor in the faculty of language, literature and cultural sciences at the University of Regensburg.", "tags": ["Fairytales", "Books", "Culture", "Germany"], "title": "Five hundred new fairytales discovered in Germany"},{"date": "2012-03-05T15:25:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A whole new world of magic animals, brave young princes and evil witches has come to light with the discovery of 500 new fairytales, which were locked away in an archive in Regensburg, Germany for over 150 years. The tales are part of a collection of myths, legends and fairytales, gathered by the local historian Franz Xaver von Sch\u00f6nwerth (1810\u20131886) in the Bavarian region of Oberpfalz at about the same time as the Grimm brothers were collecting the fairytales that have since charmed adults and children around the world.Last year, the Oberpfalz cultural curator Erika Eichenseer published a selection of fairytales from Von Sch\u00f6nwerth's collection, calling the book Prinz Ro\u00dfzwifl. This is local dialect for \"scarab beetle\". The scarab, also known as the \"dung beetle\", buries its most valuable possession, its eggs, in dung, which it then rolls into a ball using its back legs. Eichenseer sees this as symbolic for fairytales, which she says hold the most valuable treasure known to man: ancient knowledge and wisdom to do with human development, testing our limits and salvation.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth spent decades asking country folk, labourers and servants about local habits, traditions, customs and history, and putting down on paper what had only been passed on by word of mouth. In 1885, Jacob Grimm said this about him: \"Nowhere in the whole of Germany is anyone collecting [folklore] so accurately, thoroughly and with such a sensitive ear.\" Grimm went so far as to tell King Maximilian II of Bavaria that the only person who could replace him in his and his brother's work was Von Sch\u00f6nwerth.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth compiled his research into a book called Aus der Oberpfalz \u2013 Sitten und Sagen, which came out in three volumes in 1857, 1858 and 1859. The book never gained prominence and faded into obscurity.While sifting through Von Sch\u00f6nwerth's work, Eichenseer found 500 fairytales, many of which do not appear in other European fairytale collections. For example, there is the tale of a maiden who escapes a witch by transforming herself into a pond. The witch then lies on her stomach and drinks all the water, swallowing the young girl, who uses a knife to cut her way out of the witch. However, the collection also includes local versions of the tales children all over the world have grown up with including Cinderella and Rumpelstiltskin, and which appear in many different versions across Europe.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth was a historian and recorded what he heard faithfully, making no attempt to put a literary gloss on it, which is where he differs from the Grimm brothers. However, says Eichenseer, this factual recording adds to the charm and authenticity of the material. What delights her most about the tales is that they are unpolished. \"There is no romanticising or attempt by Sch\u00f6nwerth to interpret or develop his own style,\" she says.Eichenseer says the fairytales are not for children alone. \"Their main purpose was to help young adults on their path to adulthood, showing them that dangers and challenges can be overcome through virtue, prudence and courage.\"In 2008, Eichenseer helped to found the Franz Xaver von Sch\u00f6nwerth Society, an interdisciplinary committee devoted to analysing his work and publicising it. She is keen to see the tales available in English, and a Munich-based English translator, Dan Szabo, has already begun work on stories ranging from a miserly farmer and a money-mill to a turnip princess.\"Sch\u00f6nwerth's legacy counts as the most significant collection in the German-speaking world in the 19th century,\" says Daniel Drascek, a member of the society and a professor in the faculty of language, literature and cultural sciences at the University of Regensburg.", "tags": ["Fairytales", "Books", "Culture", "Germany"], "title": "Five hundred new fairytales discovered in Germany"},{"date": "2012-03-04T18:24:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has run out of patience. It was obvious at the EU summit on Friday when the German delegation let it be known that the second rescue package for Greece must be the final word. If it proves too small, and Greece cannot afford to pay public sector wages, then it must default on its debts.Talking to senior German negotiators last week, I found a change in attitude that was shocking for its clear and cold-hearted resolution.Not so long ago Berlin was concerned to be viewed as a champion of European unity. There was a genuine fear that a Greek default would terminate 50 years of building towards a European super state.Now Greece, in its enfeebled state, fails two tests. First, German officials are convinced it remains riddled with corruption, grift and racketeering such that it is impossible to make any agreements stick. Second, there is a better firewall to protect the eurozone from further shocks. The firewall is the \u20ac440bn European financial stability facility and the prospect of accelerated payments by member states into its successor the ESM, which is enough to insure against a Greek bankruptcy when placed alongside the \u20ac219bn of sovereign loans by the European Central Bank and \u20ac1 trillion in ECB loans to tide the banking system through the worst of the crisis.With a firewall in place and no confidence Athens can implement a serious reform agenda, Greece is robbed of its negotiating power.\"There is no standing still for Greece. It must either move forward with reforms or leave,\" said one official.This leaves Greece in an impossible position. With sky-high debts, a five year recession stretching into at least another two and loan interest to pay, there is no way Athens can meet Brussel's demands.Even after the deal to write down its private sector debt to 120% of GDP, the economic situation can only improve with the kind of asset fire sale and mass wage cuts that leaves the political situation desperately unstable.As Terry Smith of money broker Tullet Prebon recently wrote: \"Greek budget numbers show government revenue decreased 4.9% in January and spending rose 8%. Revenues fell from \u20ac5.122bn to \u20ac4.872bn. Spending rose from \u20ac4.967bn to \u20ac5.362bn. Apparently this is a different budget to the one that the Euro budget police look at.\"The German finance ministry under Wolfgang Schaeuble knows it has failed to put Greece in a sustainable position \u2013 with a platform from which it can bring forward reforms \u2013 but it doesn't care.In a tragi-comic twist, the view from Berlin echoes that of many Greeks, including Taki, the Spectator's High Life columnist, who took time out in his 25 February article to document his compatriots' faults. He said: \"They still believe in the most thieving politicians this side of Nigeria,\" who, in turn, protect a vast army of overpaid civil servants that operate through patronage and bribes.The German foreign ministry is of a similar view.Zsolt Darvas, an economist at the Breugel research institute in Brussels agrees that the Germans have done enough to isolate Greece, but says their argument that the eurozone can now plan for growth is flawed.There are the Spanish youth unemployment figures, at 49.9%. No wonder prime minister Mariano Rajoy has already told his German counterpart Angela Merkel he needs respite from her demands for cuts. Not for more than a century has medical science recommended bleeding patients to make them better, yet some economic scientists cling to this remedy. Germans, keen to protect their wealth, are slavish adherents.In Italy, where a clampdown on spending has brought plaudits, unemployment is rising and national politics is becoming more polarised. The technocrat in charge, Mario Monti, has plans to end age-old restrictive practices, but there are plenty of politicians in Silvio Berlusconi's party and the leftist New Democracy waiting to wreck them: not because they are delinquent, but because they represent people who will suffer huge falls in living standards.Portugal, the Germans reassure themselves, is knuckling down in a way the Greeks can only dream of. Likewise the Irish. Yet while many Irish politicians consider the pain of austerity a much deserved penance for past sins, the Portuguese are clear they have nothing to apologise for.Willem Buiter, chief economist at Citigroup, points out that weaker members of the eurozone collectively need to borrow some \u20ac2tn over the next two years. He argues that the only way to borrow this sum is for a more collective plan. One that entails some form of joint liability for countries' debts. \"A proposal from the German council of economic experts for a European debt redemption fund, which would mutualise all eurozone members' debts above 60% of GDP, with strict rules to pay them off over 25 years, is gaining traction in some quarters. Germany itself remains staunchly opposed to anything that smells of Eurobonds, and the current period of calm has only reinforced that resistance.\"Everything the Germans want could be undone without a more forgiving attitude. If the EU presses ahead with fines for countries that fail to meet new tough deficit targets, the riots in Barcelona last week could be the first round in a widespread revolt.", "tags": ["Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Europe", "Greece", "Germany"], "title": "Germany has run out of patience"},{"date": "2012-03-05T15:25:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A whole new world of magic animals, brave young princes and evil witches has come to light with the discovery of 500 new fairytales, which were locked away in an archive in Regensburg, Germany for over 150 years. The tales are part of a collection of myths, legends and fairytales, gathered by the local historian Franz Xaver von Sch\u00f6nwerth (1810\u20131886) in the Bavarian region of Oberpfalz at about the same time as the Grimm brothers were collecting the fairytales that have since charmed adults and children around the world.Last year, the Oberpfalz cultural curator Erika Eichenseer published a selection of fairytales from Von Sch\u00f6nwerth's collection, calling the book Prinz Ro\u00dfzwifl. This is local dialect for \"scarab beetle\". The scarab, also known as the \"dung beetle\", buries its most valuable possession, its eggs, in dung, which it then rolls into a ball using its back legs. Eichenseer sees this as symbolic for fairytales, which she says hold the most valuable treasure known to man: ancient knowledge and wisdom to do with human development, testing our limits and salvation.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth spent decades asking country folk, labourers and servants about local habits, traditions, customs and history, and putting down on paper what had only been passed on by word of mouth. In 1885, Jacob Grimm said this about him: \"Nowhere in the whole of Germany is anyone collecting [folklore] so accurately, thoroughly and with such a sensitive ear.\" Grimm went so far as to tell King Maximilian II of Bavaria that the only person who could replace him in his and his brother's work was Von Sch\u00f6nwerth.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth compiled his research into a book called Aus der Oberpfalz \u2013 Sitten und Sagen, which came out in three volumes in 1857, 1858 and 1859. The book never gained prominence and faded into obscurity.While sifting through Von Sch\u00f6nwerth's work, Eichenseer found 500 fairytales, many of which do not appear in other European fairytale collections. For example, there is the tale of a maiden who escapes a witch by transforming herself into a pond. The witch then lies on her stomach and drinks all the water, swallowing the young girl, who uses a knife to cut her way out of the witch. However, the collection also includes local versions of the tales children all over the world have grown up with including Cinderella and Rumpelstiltskin, and which appear in many different versions across Europe.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth was a historian and recorded what he heard faithfully, making no attempt to put a literary gloss on it, which is where he differs from the Grimm brothers. However, says Eichenseer, this factual recording adds to the charm and authenticity of the material. What delights her most about the tales is that they are unpolished. \"There is no romanticising or attempt by Sch\u00f6nwerth to interpret or develop his own style,\" she says.Eichenseer says the fairytales are not for children alone. \"Their main purpose was to help young adults on their path to adulthood, showing them that dangers and challenges can be overcome through virtue, prudence and courage.\"In 2008, Eichenseer helped to found the Franz Xaver von Sch\u00f6nwerth Society, an interdisciplinary committee devoted to analysing his work and publicising it. She is keen to see the tales available in English, and a Munich-based English translator, Dan Szabo, has already begun work on stories ranging from a miserly farmer and a money-mill to a turnip princess.\"Sch\u00f6nwerth's legacy counts as the most significant collection in the German-speaking world in the 19th century,\" says Daniel Drascek, a member of the society and a professor in the faculty of language, literature and cultural sciences at the University of Regensburg.", "tags": ["Fairytales", "Books", "Culture", "Germany"], "title": "Five hundred new fairytales discovered in Germany"},{"date": "2012-03-04T18:24:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has run out of patience. It was obvious at the EU summit on Friday when the German delegation let it be known that the second rescue package for Greece must be the final word. If it proves too small, and Greece cannot afford to pay public sector wages, then it must default on its debts.Talking to senior German negotiators last week, I found a change in attitude that was shocking for its clear and cold-hearted resolution.Not so long ago Berlin was concerned to be viewed as a champion of European unity. There was a genuine fear that a Greek default would terminate 50 years of building towards a European super state.Now Greece, in its enfeebled state, fails two tests. First, German officials are convinced it remains riddled with corruption, grift and racketeering such that it is impossible to make any agreements stick. Second, there is a better firewall to protect the eurozone from further shocks. The firewall is the \u20ac440bn European financial stability facility and the prospect of accelerated payments by member states into its successor the ESM, which is enough to insure against a Greek bankruptcy when placed alongside the \u20ac219bn of sovereign loans by the European Central Bank and \u20ac1 trillion in ECB loans to tide the banking system through the worst of the crisis.With a firewall in place and no confidence Athens can implement a serious reform agenda, Greece is robbed of its negotiating power.\"There is no standing still for Greece. It must either move forward with reforms or leave,\" said one official.This leaves Greece in an impossible position. With sky-high debts, a five year recession stretching into at least another two and loan interest to pay, there is no way Athens can meet Brussel's demands.Even after the deal to write down its private sector debt to 120% of GDP, the economic situation can only improve with the kind of asset fire sale and mass wage cuts that leaves the political situation desperately unstable.As Terry Smith of money broker Tullet Prebon recently wrote: \"Greek budget numbers show government revenue decreased 4.9% in January and spending rose 8%. Revenues fell from \u20ac5.122bn to \u20ac4.872bn. Spending rose from \u20ac4.967bn to \u20ac5.362bn. Apparently this is a different budget to the one that the Euro budget police look at.\"The German finance ministry under Wolfgang Schaeuble knows it has failed to put Greece in a sustainable position \u2013 with a platform from which it can bring forward reforms \u2013 but it doesn't care.In a tragi-comic twist, the view from Berlin echoes that of many Greeks, including Taki, the Spectator's High Life columnist, who took time out in his 25 February article to document his compatriots' faults. He said: \"They still believe in the most thieving politicians this side of Nigeria,\" who, in turn, protect a vast army of overpaid civil servants that operate through patronage and bribes.The German foreign ministry is of a similar view.Zsolt Darvas, an economist at the Breugel research institute in Brussels agrees that the Germans have done enough to isolate Greece, but says their argument that the eurozone can now plan for growth is flawed.There are the Spanish youth unemployment figures, at 49.9%. No wonder prime minister Mariano Rajoy has already told his German counterpart Angela Merkel he needs respite from her demands for cuts. Not for more than a century has medical science recommended bleeding patients to make them better, yet some economic scientists cling to this remedy. Germans, keen to protect their wealth, are slavish adherents.In Italy, where a clampdown on spending has brought plaudits, unemployment is rising and national politics is becoming more polarised. The technocrat in charge, Mario Monti, has plans to end age-old restrictive practices, but there are plenty of politicians in Silvio Berlusconi's party and the leftist New Democracy waiting to wreck them: not because they are delinquent, but because they represent people who will suffer huge falls in living standards.Portugal, the Germans reassure themselves, is knuckling down in a way the Greeks can only dream of. Likewise the Irish. Yet while many Irish politicians consider the pain of austerity a much deserved penance for past sins, the Portuguese are clear they have nothing to apologise for.Willem Buiter, chief economist at Citigroup, points out that weaker members of the eurozone collectively need to borrow some \u20ac2tn over the next two years. He argues that the only way to borrow this sum is for a more collective plan. One that entails some form of joint liability for countries' debts. \"A proposal from the German council of economic experts for a European debt redemption fund, which would mutualise all eurozone members' debts above 60% of GDP, with strict rules to pay them off over 25 years, is gaining traction in some quarters. Germany itself remains staunchly opposed to anything that smells of Eurobonds, and the current period of calm has only reinforced that resistance.\"Everything the Germans want could be undone without a more forgiving attitude. If the EU presses ahead with fines for countries that fail to meet new tough deficit targets, the riots in Barcelona last week could be the first round in a widespread revolt.", "tags": ["Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Europe", "Greece", "Germany"], "title": "Germany has run out of patience"},{"date": "2012-03-02T19:05:46Z", "country": "germany", "content": "You can have too much of a good thing, it turns out. The German government has said it has been forced to cut subsidies for solar panels, because demand was so high it could no longer afford to support the green technology.Friday's announcement has left Germans rushing to install solar panels on buildings ahead of the planned cut in subsidies of up to 30%.The government has explained its decision as a way of slowing the rapid growth in the sector, saying it was one of Germany's success stories, but had been allowed to grow too fast and had been too heavily subsidised.\"We've already seen a huge reduction in the incentives in the past few years but the incentives were still too high,\" the environment minister, Norbert R\u00f6ttgen, said. \"Solar is a success story made in Germany. We want it to be an acceptable technology not only in the future but right now but the cost factor has to be at acceptable levels.\"Environmentalists, renewable energy experts and industry representatives have expressed incredulity at the 30% cut from 9 March, following earlier cuts of up to 50% over the past three years. They said it was a huge blow for the fledgling industry and a contradiction in terms for a country planning to phase out nuclear power.\"This plan amounts to nothing less than a solar phase-out law,\" said David Wedepohl, spokesman for the German Solar Industry Association, which represents 800 solar companies. \"Under these circumstances there's no way that the transition of the energy industry can be successful. It's also putting tens of thousands of jobs at risk, and it's tough both on investors and on citizens who want to be part of the energy transformation.\"Germany is the world's top installer of photovoltaic power, with a capacity of around 25,000 megawatts, almost as much as the rest of the world put together. It added a record 7,500 megawatts in 2011.The sun provides from 3.2% to \u2013 on sunny days at midday\u2013 up to 25% of Germany's energy.Wedepohl admitted: \"You could say we are the victims of our own success. The costs of solar energy have come down immensely due to technological development and scaleability so we're scratching our heads and wondering: why stop supporting this now?\"Germany has seen a huge increase in use of solar panels over the last two years, thanks to a subsidy system that utility companies are obliged to pay to people who generate their own solar power, which is then pumped into the grid. Power companies pass on the costs to their customers in their electricity bill. At a time of rising prices the government argues that it has to lessen the financial impact on consumers by decreasing the subsidies.The solar sector boom has seen everyone from farms to kindergartens making the most of the opportunities to erect solar panels on their roofs. There has even been a trend to form co-operatives and rent space on the roof of public buildings that have installed panels, such as swimming pools or schools. There are now 1.1m such systems in Germany.The proposed cuts would see the feed in tariff subsidy falling to 19.5 cents per kilowatt hour (kWh) for small plants, and to 13.5 cents for plants of up to 10 megawatts. German retail electricity prices are between 21 and 24 cents per kWh.The decision must still pass through the cabinet and parliament but political observers believe it is likely to be approved.On Monday thousands of demonstrators are planning to gather at Berlin's Brandenburg Gate to protest under the banner \"Stop the Solar Phase Out\".At a time when solar power is on the verge of costing the same as conventional power, due in large part to the fall in the costs of solar panels and their installation, renewable energy sector representatives have expressed their suspicions that the cuts are an attempt to appease the major energy companies who are losing out greatly to renewables, particularly since the decision last year to phase out nuclear power following the Fukishima disaster in Japan.\"We're taking a part of the market away for large electricity suppliers,\" said Wedepohl. \"But as a country we made a decision after Fukishima to phase out nuclear energy, so we need a lot of power.\"", "tags": ["Solar power", "Germany", "Renewable energy", "Energy", "Environment", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany to cut solar power subsidies"},{"date": "2012-03-05T15:25:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A whole new world of magic animals, brave young princes and evil witches has come to light with the discovery of 500 new fairytales, which were locked away in an archive in Regensburg, Germany for over 150 years. The tales are part of a collection of myths, legends and fairytales, gathered by the local historian Franz Xaver von Sch\u00f6nwerth (1810\u20131886) in the Bavarian region of Oberpfalz at about the same time as the Grimm brothers were collecting the fairytales that have since charmed adults and children around the world.Last year, the Oberpfalz cultural curator Erika Eichenseer published a selection of fairytales from Von Sch\u00f6nwerth's collection, calling the book Prinz Ro\u00dfzwifl. This is local dialect for \"scarab beetle\". The scarab, also known as the \"dung beetle\", buries its most valuable possession, its eggs, in dung, which it then rolls into a ball using its back legs. Eichenseer sees this as symbolic for fairytales, which she says hold the most valuable treasure known to man: ancient knowledge and wisdom to do with human development, testing our limits and salvation.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth spent decades asking country folk, labourers and servants about local habits, traditions, customs and history, and putting down on paper what had only been passed on by word of mouth. In 1885, Jacob Grimm said this about him: \"Nowhere in the whole of Germany is anyone collecting [folklore] so accurately, thoroughly and with such a sensitive ear.\" Grimm went so far as to tell King Maximilian II of Bavaria that the only person who could replace him in his and his brother's work was Von Sch\u00f6nwerth.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth compiled his research into a book called Aus der Oberpfalz \u2013 Sitten und Sagen, which came out in three volumes in 1857, 1858 and 1859. The book never gained prominence and faded into obscurity.While sifting through Von Sch\u00f6nwerth's work, Eichenseer found 500 fairytales, many of which do not appear in other European fairytale collections. For example, there is the tale of a maiden who escapes a witch by transforming herself into a pond. The witch then lies on her stomach and drinks all the water, swallowing the young girl, who uses a knife to cut her way out of the witch. However, the collection also includes local versions of the tales children all over the world have grown up with including Cinderella and Rumpelstiltskin, and which appear in many different versions across Europe.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth was a historian and recorded what he heard faithfully, making no attempt to put a literary gloss on it, which is where he differs from the Grimm brothers. However, says Eichenseer, this factual recording adds to the charm and authenticity of the material. What delights her most about the tales is that they are unpolished. \"There is no romanticising or attempt by Sch\u00f6nwerth to interpret or develop his own style,\" she says.Eichenseer says the fairytales are not for children alone. \"Their main purpose was to help young adults on their path to adulthood, showing them that dangers and challenges can be overcome through virtue, prudence and courage.\"In 2008, Eichenseer helped to found the Franz Xaver von Sch\u00f6nwerth Society, an interdisciplinary committee devoted to analysing his work and publicising it. She is keen to see the tales available in English, and a Munich-based English translator, Dan Szabo, has already begun work on stories ranging from a miserly farmer and a money-mill to a turnip princess.\"Sch\u00f6nwerth's legacy counts as the most significant collection in the German-speaking world in the 19th century,\" says Daniel Drascek, a member of the society and a professor in the faculty of language, literature and cultural sciences at the University of Regensburg.", "tags": ["Fairytales", "Books", "Culture", "Germany"], "title": "Five hundred new fairytales discovered in Germany"},{"date": "2012-03-04T18:24:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has run out of patience. It was obvious at the EU summit on Friday when the German delegation let it be known that the second rescue package for Greece must be the final word. If it proves too small, and Greece cannot afford to pay public sector wages, then it must default on its debts.Talking to senior German negotiators last week, I found a change in attitude that was shocking for its clear and cold-hearted resolution.Not so long ago Berlin was concerned to be viewed as a champion of European unity. There was a genuine fear that a Greek default would terminate 50 years of building towards a European super state.Now Greece, in its enfeebled state, fails two tests. First, German officials are convinced it remains riddled with corruption, grift and racketeering such that it is impossible to make any agreements stick. Second, there is a better firewall to protect the eurozone from further shocks. The firewall is the \u20ac440bn European financial stability facility and the prospect of accelerated payments by member states into its successor the ESM, which is enough to insure against a Greek bankruptcy when placed alongside the \u20ac219bn of sovereign loans by the European Central Bank and \u20ac1 trillion in ECB loans to tide the banking system through the worst of the crisis.With a firewall in place and no confidence Athens can implement a serious reform agenda, Greece is robbed of its negotiating power.\"There is no standing still for Greece. It must either move forward with reforms or leave,\" said one official.This leaves Greece in an impossible position. With sky-high debts, a five year recession stretching into at least another two and loan interest to pay, there is no way Athens can meet Brussel's demands.Even after the deal to write down its private sector debt to 120% of GDP, the economic situation can only improve with the kind of asset fire sale and mass wage cuts that leaves the political situation desperately unstable.As Terry Smith of money broker Tullet Prebon recently wrote: \"Greek budget numbers show government revenue decreased 4.9% in January and spending rose 8%. Revenues fell from \u20ac5.122bn to \u20ac4.872bn. Spending rose from \u20ac4.967bn to \u20ac5.362bn. Apparently this is a different budget to the one that the Euro budget police look at.\"The German finance ministry under Wolfgang Schaeuble knows it has failed to put Greece in a sustainable position \u2013 with a platform from which it can bring forward reforms \u2013 but it doesn't care.In a tragi-comic twist, the view from Berlin echoes that of many Greeks, including Taki, the Spectator's High Life columnist, who took time out in his 25 February article to document his compatriots' faults. He said: \"They still believe in the most thieving politicians this side of Nigeria,\" who, in turn, protect a vast army of overpaid civil servants that operate through patronage and bribes.The German foreign ministry is of a similar view.Zsolt Darvas, an economist at the Breugel research institute in Brussels agrees that the Germans have done enough to isolate Greece, but says their argument that the eurozone can now plan for growth is flawed.There are the Spanish youth unemployment figures, at 49.9%. No wonder prime minister Mariano Rajoy has already told his German counterpart Angela Merkel he needs respite from her demands for cuts. Not for more than a century has medical science recommended bleeding patients to make them better, yet some economic scientists cling to this remedy. Germans, keen to protect their wealth, are slavish adherents.In Italy, where a clampdown on spending has brought plaudits, unemployment is rising and national politics is becoming more polarised. The technocrat in charge, Mario Monti, has plans to end age-old restrictive practices, but there are plenty of politicians in Silvio Berlusconi's party and the leftist New Democracy waiting to wreck them: not because they are delinquent, but because they represent people who will suffer huge falls in living standards.Portugal, the Germans reassure themselves, is knuckling down in a way the Greeks can only dream of. Likewise the Irish. Yet while many Irish politicians consider the pain of austerity a much deserved penance for past sins, the Portuguese are clear they have nothing to apologise for.Willem Buiter, chief economist at Citigroup, points out that weaker members of the eurozone collectively need to borrow some \u20ac2tn over the next two years. He argues that the only way to borrow this sum is for a more collective plan. One that entails some form of joint liability for countries' debts. \"A proposal from the German council of economic experts for a European debt redemption fund, which would mutualise all eurozone members' debts above 60% of GDP, with strict rules to pay them off over 25 years, is gaining traction in some quarters. Germany itself remains staunchly opposed to anything that smells of Eurobonds, and the current period of calm has only reinforced that resistance.\"Everything the Germans want could be undone without a more forgiving attitude. If the EU presses ahead with fines for countries that fail to meet new tough deficit targets, the riots in Barcelona last week could be the first round in a widespread revolt.", "tags": ["Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Europe", "Greece", "Germany"], "title": "Germany has run out of patience"},{"date": "2012-03-02T19:05:46Z", "country": "germany", "content": "You can have too much of a good thing, it turns out. The German government has said it has been forced to cut subsidies for solar panels, because demand was so high it could no longer afford to support the green technology.Friday's announcement has left Germans rushing to install solar panels on buildings ahead of the planned cut in subsidies of up to 30%.The government has explained its decision as a way of slowing the rapid growth in the sector, saying it was one of Germany's success stories, but had been allowed to grow too fast and had been too heavily subsidised.\"We've already seen a huge reduction in the incentives in the past few years but the incentives were still too high,\" the environment minister, Norbert R\u00f6ttgen, said. \"Solar is a success story made in Germany. We want it to be an acceptable technology not only in the future but right now but the cost factor has to be at acceptable levels.\"Environmentalists, renewable energy experts and industry representatives have expressed incredulity at the 30% cut from 9 March, following earlier cuts of up to 50% over the past three years. They said it was a huge blow for the fledgling industry and a contradiction in terms for a country planning to phase out nuclear power.\"This plan amounts to nothing less than a solar phase-out law,\" said David Wedepohl, spokesman for the German Solar Industry Association, which represents 800 solar companies. \"Under these circumstances there's no way that the transition of the energy industry can be successful. It's also putting tens of thousands of jobs at risk, and it's tough both on investors and on citizens who want to be part of the energy transformation.\"Germany is the world's top installer of photovoltaic power, with a capacity of around 25,000 megawatts, almost as much as the rest of the world put together. It added a record 7,500 megawatts in 2011.The sun provides from 3.2% to \u2013 on sunny days at midday\u2013 up to 25% of Germany's energy.Wedepohl admitted: \"You could say we are the victims of our own success. The costs of solar energy have come down immensely due to technological development and scaleability so we're scratching our heads and wondering: why stop supporting this now?\"Germany has seen a huge increase in use of solar panels over the last two years, thanks to a subsidy system that utility companies are obliged to pay to people who generate their own solar power, which is then pumped into the grid. Power companies pass on the costs to their customers in their electricity bill. At a time of rising prices the government argues that it has to lessen the financial impact on consumers by decreasing the subsidies.The solar sector boom has seen everyone from farms to kindergartens making the most of the opportunities to erect solar panels on their roofs. There has even been a trend to form co-operatives and rent space on the roof of public buildings that have installed panels, such as swimming pools or schools. There are now 1.1m such systems in Germany.The proposed cuts would see the feed in tariff subsidy falling to 19.5 cents per kilowatt hour (kWh) for small plants, and to 13.5 cents for plants of up to 10 megawatts. German retail electricity prices are between 21 and 24 cents per kWh.The decision must still pass through the cabinet and parliament but political observers believe it is likely to be approved.On Monday thousands of demonstrators are planning to gather at Berlin's Brandenburg Gate to protest under the banner \"Stop the Solar Phase Out\".At a time when solar power is on the verge of costing the same as conventional power, due in large part to the fall in the costs of solar panels and their installation, renewable energy sector representatives have expressed their suspicions that the cuts are an attempt to appease the major energy companies who are losing out greatly to renewables, particularly since the decision last year to phase out nuclear power following the Fukishima disaster in Japan.\"We're taking a part of the market away for large electricity suppliers,\" said Wedepohl. \"But as a country we made a decision after Fukishima to phase out nuclear energy, so we need a lot of power.\"", "tags": ["Solar power", "Germany", "Renewable energy", "Energy", "Environment", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany to cut solar power subsidies"},{"date": "2012-02-27T17:07:27Z", "country": "germany", "content": "What's interesting in looking through newsreel archives is how the editorial policy of the day differs from what is now received history. So, although rock'n'roll arrived in Britain in the winter of 1955-6 with the success of Bill Haley and the Comets' Rock Around the Clock (No 1 in early January), there is comparatively little material relating to rock'n'roll in Path\u00e9's archive from 1956.Nowhere is there anything about Elvis Presley, who had four major hits that year, nor anything about the late-summer furore that accompanied the release of the film Rock Around the Clock \u2013 a heady brew of excited newspaper reports and censorious local councils reacting to a bit of gang warfare and youthful high spirits.Rock'n'roll's impact went way beyond the music, which was exciting enough. It provided a focus for an emerging youth subculture that, once twinned with the commercial success of Elvis, Bill Haley, Gene Vincent et al, became ever more confident, assertive and visible. In Britain, rock'n'roll hooked into the already established teddy boy style, the adherents of which needed no lessons in disorder.The Teds, as the singer and pop historian Ian Whitcomb later remembered, took to the beat's implied violence like ducks to water. On the London underground one day in 1956, he \"saw marching towards me in uneven ranks a mass of costumed youths, flaying their arms out, and reciting their war chant: 'One, two, three o'clock, four o'clock fuck! We're gonna fuck around the clock tonight!' They had found their martial rallying music and it was Bill's.\"However, this late 1956 footage comes not from the UK but from Hamburg, Germany. The opening phrase \"the rock'n'roll craze\" suggests this was already a media trope, and the corny jive terminology (\"They ain't squares\") is Path\u00e9 business as usual, as is the rather stagey nature of what they decide to film.The music is that peculiar big band/jazz/rock hybrid that was popular at that time in Europe, as players struggled to adjust to the demands of the big beat. The first British rock'n'roll bands were formed by jazzers such as Tony Crombie \u2013 as a drummer, he understood how the beat had to come first \u2013 and Don Lang, who fronted the house band on the very first post-rock'n'roll BBC show, Six-Five Special.Today, the footage \u2013 cracker barrel, the same old shots that have since been rolled out again and again \u2013 looks all too familiar. But this was the first time many Path\u00e9 viewers would have seen rock'n'roll. What's routine to us now after years of music documentaries, all building up to an agreed (though often incorrect) history, would have seemed very different in 1956.So you have to use fresh eyes, and try to recapture the feeling. The dancing is actually pretty great: check out the slide at 0:47 and the rigid spasms at 0:49. The crowd shots are fabulous, and that's where you see the excitement: whole hordes of Halbstarken (half-strongs, the German equivalent of Teds) coming alive in front of the camera. You can see the light in their eyes.There's no trouble here, but lots of frantic movement and the sense of something barely contained. Something did change in 1956, and the contrast between the Path\u00e9 voiceover and the actual images is part of the story in itself. Youthful hi-jinks would set the tone for all future rock'n'roll newsreels, but that's only because it really happened. The crowd shot at the end is a portent of future disturbances to come.(If you're interested in music and youth culture from this period, please read Pete Frame's The Restless Generation: How Rock Music Changed the Face of 1950's Britain \u2013 published in 2007 by Rogan House. It's a proper social history, containing many interviews with key musicians, a clear time-line, a sense of the outside world and just the right amount of personal engagement. I can't recommend it highly enough.)", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Elvis Presley", "Music documentary", "Film", "Culture"], "title": "Pop at the pictures: Rock'n'roll hits Germany"},{"date": "2012-03-05T15:25:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A whole new world of magic animals, brave young princes and evil witches has come to light with the discovery of 500 new fairytales, which were locked away in an archive in Regensburg, Germany for over 150 years. The tales are part of a collection of myths, legends and fairytales, gathered by the local historian Franz Xaver von Sch\u00f6nwerth (1810\u20131886) in the Bavarian region of Oberpfalz at about the same time as the Grimm brothers were collecting the fairytales that have since charmed adults and children around the world.Last year, the Oberpfalz cultural curator Erika Eichenseer published a selection of fairytales from Von Sch\u00f6nwerth's collection, calling the book Prinz Ro\u00dfzwifl. This is local dialect for \"scarab beetle\". The scarab, also known as the \"dung beetle\", buries its most valuable possession, its eggs, in dung, which it then rolls into a ball using its back legs. Eichenseer sees this as symbolic for fairytales, which she says hold the most valuable treasure known to man: ancient knowledge and wisdom to do with human development, testing our limits and salvation.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth spent decades asking country folk, labourers and servants about local habits, traditions, customs and history, and putting down on paper what had only been passed on by word of mouth. In 1885, Jacob Grimm said this about him: \"Nowhere in the whole of Germany is anyone collecting [folklore] so accurately, thoroughly and with such a sensitive ear.\" Grimm went so far as to tell King Maximilian II of Bavaria that the only person who could replace him in his and his brother's work was Von Sch\u00f6nwerth.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth compiled his research into a book called Aus der Oberpfalz \u2013 Sitten und Sagen, which came out in three volumes in 1857, 1858 and 1859. The book never gained prominence and faded into obscurity.While sifting through Von Sch\u00f6nwerth's work, Eichenseer found 500 fairytales, many of which do not appear in other European fairytale collections. For example, there is the tale of a maiden who escapes a witch by transforming herself into a pond. The witch then lies on her stomach and drinks all the water, swallowing the young girl, who uses a knife to cut her way out of the witch. However, the collection also includes local versions of the tales children all over the world have grown up with including Cinderella and Rumpelstiltskin, and which appear in many different versions across Europe.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth was a historian and recorded what he heard faithfully, making no attempt to put a literary gloss on it, which is where he differs from the Grimm brothers. However, says Eichenseer, this factual recording adds to the charm and authenticity of the material. What delights her most about the tales is that they are unpolished. \"There is no romanticising or attempt by Sch\u00f6nwerth to interpret or develop his own style,\" she says.Eichenseer says the fairytales are not for children alone. \"Their main purpose was to help young adults on their path to adulthood, showing them that dangers and challenges can be overcome through virtue, prudence and courage.\"In 2008, Eichenseer helped to found the Franz Xaver von Sch\u00f6nwerth Society, an interdisciplinary committee devoted to analysing his work and publicising it. She is keen to see the tales available in English, and a Munich-based English translator, Dan Szabo, has already begun work on stories ranging from a miserly farmer and a money-mill to a turnip princess.\"Sch\u00f6nwerth's legacy counts as the most significant collection in the German-speaking world in the 19th century,\" says Daniel Drascek, a member of the society and a professor in the faculty of language, literature and cultural sciences at the University of Regensburg.", "tags": ["Fairytales", "Books", "Culture", "Germany"], "title": "Five hundred new fairytales discovered in Germany"},{"date": "2012-03-04T18:24:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has run out of patience. It was obvious at the EU summit on Friday when the German delegation let it be known that the second rescue package for Greece must be the final word. If it proves too small, and Greece cannot afford to pay public sector wages, then it must default on its debts.Talking to senior German negotiators last week, I found a change in attitude that was shocking for its clear and cold-hearted resolution.Not so long ago Berlin was concerned to be viewed as a champion of European unity. There was a genuine fear that a Greek default would terminate 50 years of building towards a European super state.Now Greece, in its enfeebled state, fails two tests. First, German officials are convinced it remains riddled with corruption, grift and racketeering such that it is impossible to make any agreements stick. Second, there is a better firewall to protect the eurozone from further shocks. The firewall is the \u20ac440bn European financial stability facility and the prospect of accelerated payments by member states into its successor the ESM, which is enough to insure against a Greek bankruptcy when placed alongside the \u20ac219bn of sovereign loans by the European Central Bank and \u20ac1 trillion in ECB loans to tide the banking system through the worst of the crisis.With a firewall in place and no confidence Athens can implement a serious reform agenda, Greece is robbed of its negotiating power.\"There is no standing still for Greece. It must either move forward with reforms or leave,\" said one official.This leaves Greece in an impossible position. With sky-high debts, a five year recession stretching into at least another two and loan interest to pay, there is no way Athens can meet Brussel's demands.Even after the deal to write down its private sector debt to 120% of GDP, the economic situation can only improve with the kind of asset fire sale and mass wage cuts that leaves the political situation desperately unstable.As Terry Smith of money broker Tullet Prebon recently wrote: \"Greek budget numbers show government revenue decreased 4.9% in January and spending rose 8%. Revenues fell from \u20ac5.122bn to \u20ac4.872bn. Spending rose from \u20ac4.967bn to \u20ac5.362bn. Apparently this is a different budget to the one that the Euro budget police look at.\"The German finance ministry under Wolfgang Schaeuble knows it has failed to put Greece in a sustainable position \u2013 with a platform from which it can bring forward reforms \u2013 but it doesn't care.In a tragi-comic twist, the view from Berlin echoes that of many Greeks, including Taki, the Spectator's High Life columnist, who took time out in his 25 February article to document his compatriots' faults. He said: \"They still believe in the most thieving politicians this side of Nigeria,\" who, in turn, protect a vast army of overpaid civil servants that operate through patronage and bribes.The German foreign ministry is of a similar view.Zsolt Darvas, an economist at the Breugel research institute in Brussels agrees that the Germans have done enough to isolate Greece, but says their argument that the eurozone can now plan for growth is flawed.There are the Spanish youth unemployment figures, at 49.9%. No wonder prime minister Mariano Rajoy has already told his German counterpart Angela Merkel he needs respite from her demands for cuts. Not for more than a century has medical science recommended bleeding patients to make them better, yet some economic scientists cling to this remedy. Germans, keen to protect their wealth, are slavish adherents.In Italy, where a clampdown on spending has brought plaudits, unemployment is rising and national politics is becoming more polarised. The technocrat in charge, Mario Monti, has plans to end age-old restrictive practices, but there are plenty of politicians in Silvio Berlusconi's party and the leftist New Democracy waiting to wreck them: not because they are delinquent, but because they represent people who will suffer huge falls in living standards.Portugal, the Germans reassure themselves, is knuckling down in a way the Greeks can only dream of. Likewise the Irish. Yet while many Irish politicians consider the pain of austerity a much deserved penance for past sins, the Portuguese are clear they have nothing to apologise for.Willem Buiter, chief economist at Citigroup, points out that weaker members of the eurozone collectively need to borrow some \u20ac2tn over the next two years. He argues that the only way to borrow this sum is for a more collective plan. One that entails some form of joint liability for countries' debts. \"A proposal from the German council of economic experts for a European debt redemption fund, which would mutualise all eurozone members' debts above 60% of GDP, with strict rules to pay them off over 25 years, is gaining traction in some quarters. Germany itself remains staunchly opposed to anything that smells of Eurobonds, and the current period of calm has only reinforced that resistance.\"Everything the Germans want could be undone without a more forgiving attitude. If the EU presses ahead with fines for countries that fail to meet new tough deficit targets, the riots in Barcelona last week could be the first round in a widespread revolt.", "tags": ["Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Europe", "Greece", "Germany"], "title": "Germany has run out of patience"},{"date": "2012-03-02T19:05:46Z", "country": "germany", "content": "You can have too much of a good thing, it turns out. The German government has said it has been forced to cut subsidies for solar panels, because demand was so high it could no longer afford to support the green technology.Friday's announcement has left Germans rushing to install solar panels on buildings ahead of the planned cut in subsidies of up to 30%.The government has explained its decision as a way of slowing the rapid growth in the sector, saying it was one of Germany's success stories, but had been allowed to grow too fast and had been too heavily subsidised.\"We've already seen a huge reduction in the incentives in the past few years but the incentives were still too high,\" the environment minister, Norbert R\u00f6ttgen, said. \"Solar is a success story made in Germany. We want it to be an acceptable technology not only in the future but right now but the cost factor has to be at acceptable levels.\"Environmentalists, renewable energy experts and industry representatives have expressed incredulity at the 30% cut from 9 March, following earlier cuts of up to 50% over the past three years. They said it was a huge blow for the fledgling industry and a contradiction in terms for a country planning to phase out nuclear power.\"This plan amounts to nothing less than a solar phase-out law,\" said David Wedepohl, spokesman for the German Solar Industry Association, which represents 800 solar companies. \"Under these circumstances there's no way that the transition of the energy industry can be successful. It's also putting tens of thousands of jobs at risk, and it's tough both on investors and on citizens who want to be part of the energy transformation.\"Germany is the world's top installer of photovoltaic power, with a capacity of around 25,000 megawatts, almost as much as the rest of the world put together. It added a record 7,500 megawatts in 2011.The sun provides from 3.2% to \u2013 on sunny days at midday\u2013 up to 25% of Germany's energy.Wedepohl admitted: \"You could say we are the victims of our own success. The costs of solar energy have come down immensely due to technological development and scaleability so we're scratching our heads and wondering: why stop supporting this now?\"Germany has seen a huge increase in use of solar panels over the last two years, thanks to a subsidy system that utility companies are obliged to pay to people who generate their own solar power, which is then pumped into the grid. Power companies pass on the costs to their customers in their electricity bill. At a time of rising prices the government argues that it has to lessen the financial impact on consumers by decreasing the subsidies.The solar sector boom has seen everyone from farms to kindergartens making the most of the opportunities to erect solar panels on their roofs. There has even been a trend to form co-operatives and rent space on the roof of public buildings that have installed panels, such as swimming pools or schools. There are now 1.1m such systems in Germany.The proposed cuts would see the feed in tariff subsidy falling to 19.5 cents per kilowatt hour (kWh) for small plants, and to 13.5 cents for plants of up to 10 megawatts. German retail electricity prices are between 21 and 24 cents per kWh.The decision must still pass through the cabinet and parliament but political observers believe it is likely to be approved.On Monday thousands of demonstrators are planning to gather at Berlin's Brandenburg Gate to protest under the banner \"Stop the Solar Phase Out\".At a time when solar power is on the verge of costing the same as conventional power, due in large part to the fall in the costs of solar panels and their installation, renewable energy sector representatives have expressed their suspicions that the cuts are an attempt to appease the major energy companies who are losing out greatly to renewables, particularly since the decision last year to phase out nuclear power following the Fukishima disaster in Japan.\"We're taking a part of the market away for large electricity suppliers,\" said Wedepohl. \"But as a country we made a decision after Fukishima to phase out nuclear energy, so we need a lot of power.\"", "tags": ["Solar power", "Germany", "Renewable energy", "Energy", "Environment", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany to cut solar power subsidies"},{"date": "2012-02-27T17:07:27Z", "country": "germany", "content": "What's interesting in looking through newsreel archives is how the editorial policy of the day differs from what is now received history. So, although rock'n'roll arrived in Britain in the winter of 1955-6 with the success of Bill Haley and the Comets' Rock Around the Clock (No 1 in early January), there is comparatively little material relating to rock'n'roll in Path\u00e9's archive from 1956.Nowhere is there anything about Elvis Presley, who had four major hits that year, nor anything about the late-summer furore that accompanied the release of the film Rock Around the Clock \u2013 a heady brew of excited newspaper reports and censorious local councils reacting to a bit of gang warfare and youthful high spirits.Rock'n'roll's impact went way beyond the music, which was exciting enough. It provided a focus for an emerging youth subculture that, once twinned with the commercial success of Elvis, Bill Haley, Gene Vincent et al, became ever more confident, assertive and visible. In Britain, rock'n'roll hooked into the already established teddy boy style, the adherents of which needed no lessons in disorder.The Teds, as the singer and pop historian Ian Whitcomb later remembered, took to the beat's implied violence like ducks to water. On the London underground one day in 1956, he \"saw marching towards me in uneven ranks a mass of costumed youths, flaying their arms out, and reciting their war chant: 'One, two, three o'clock, four o'clock fuck! We're gonna fuck around the clock tonight!' They had found their martial rallying music and it was Bill's.\"However, this late 1956 footage comes not from the UK but from Hamburg, Germany. The opening phrase \"the rock'n'roll craze\" suggests this was already a media trope, and the corny jive terminology (\"They ain't squares\") is Path\u00e9 business as usual, as is the rather stagey nature of what they decide to film.The music is that peculiar big band/jazz/rock hybrid that was popular at that time in Europe, as players struggled to adjust to the demands of the big beat. The first British rock'n'roll bands were formed by jazzers such as Tony Crombie \u2013 as a drummer, he understood how the beat had to come first \u2013 and Don Lang, who fronted the house band on the very first post-rock'n'roll BBC show, Six-Five Special.Today, the footage \u2013 cracker barrel, the same old shots that have since been rolled out again and again \u2013 looks all too familiar. But this was the first time many Path\u00e9 viewers would have seen rock'n'roll. What's routine to us now after years of music documentaries, all building up to an agreed (though often incorrect) history, would have seemed very different in 1956.So you have to use fresh eyes, and try to recapture the feeling. The dancing is actually pretty great: check out the slide at 0:47 and the rigid spasms at 0:49. The crowd shots are fabulous, and that's where you see the excitement: whole hordes of Halbstarken (half-strongs, the German equivalent of Teds) coming alive in front of the camera. You can see the light in their eyes.There's no trouble here, but lots of frantic movement and the sense of something barely contained. Something did change in 1956, and the contrast between the Path\u00e9 voiceover and the actual images is part of the story in itself. Youthful hi-jinks would set the tone for all future rock'n'roll newsreels, but that's only because it really happened. The crowd shot at the end is a portent of future disturbances to come.(If you're interested in music and youth culture from this period, please read Pete Frame's The Restless Generation: How Rock Music Changed the Face of 1950's Britain \u2013 published in 2007 by Rogan House. It's a proper social history, containing many interviews with key musicians, a clear time-line, a sense of the outside world and just the right amount of personal engagement. I can't recommend it highly enough.)", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Elvis Presley", "Music documentary", "Film", "Culture"], "title": "Pop at the pictures: Rock'n'roll hits Germany"},{"date": "2012-02-10T14:15:11Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Germans want the Greeks out. That is the clear message from the decision by Europe's finance ministers to reject the offer of a fresh package of austerity measures in return for a \u20ac130bn (\u00a3108bn) bailout. Over the past few days it has been painfully evident that Greece's coalition government was having real trouble securing agreement on the deal but it has now been told to cut some more. Berlin wants a full pound of flesh.The Germans would say that the tough approach is justified by Greece's record in making promises and then not keeping them. After the mass downgrade by Standard & Poor's of European sovereigns last month, the remaining AAA-rated countries \u2013 including Germany \u2013 are more determined than ever to show their fiscal mettle. There is visceral loathing of Greece in Germany.Mind you, the Greeks are not too keen on the Germans either. They believe that the draconian terms for financial assistance are condemning the economy to permanent recession, and by killing off growth ensuring that the country's debt problem cannot be cured. Being asked to cut further when you know it is pointless may be one humiliation too far.The question, therefore, is whether the Greeks are being forced into a position where they reject the Carthaginian peace terms presented to them by the rest of Europe and decide that, however tough life is going to be outside the single currency (and make no mistake, it would be), it can be no worse than sticking to the status quo.With one important caveat, this would be a good outcome for Angela Merkel. If Greece decided to quit the euro of its own volition, she could say she had done all she could to keep the single currency intact but, in the end, the Greeks themselves had decided it was time to go.The caveat is, of course, that a Greek departure would be orderly rather than disruptive. If the Germans, and the other hardliners, are trying to force the issue it is because they believe that the actions taken by the European Central Bank over the past couple of months have been sufficient to ensure no contagion effects from Greece to the other debt-stricken eurozone members and, just as importantly, to the fragile European banking system.That is one heck of a gamble, and don't be surprised if it fails. Ever since it became obvious in late 2009 that Greece had a whopping debt problem, the crisis has been handled ham-fistedly. Nothing has been learned along the way, obviously.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "Economics", "Greece", "Germany", "European monetary union"], "title": "European debt crisis pitches Germany against Greece"},{"date": "2012-03-05T15:25:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A whole new world of magic animals, brave young princes and evil witches has come to light with the discovery of 500 new fairytales, which were locked away in an archive in Regensburg, Germany for over 150 years. The tales are part of a collection of myths, legends and fairytales, gathered by the local historian Franz Xaver von Sch\u00f6nwerth (1810\u20131886) in the Bavarian region of Oberpfalz at about the same time as the Grimm brothers were collecting the fairytales that have since charmed adults and children around the world.Last year, the Oberpfalz cultural curator Erika Eichenseer published a selection of fairytales from Von Sch\u00f6nwerth's collection, calling the book Prinz Ro\u00dfzwifl. This is local dialect for \"scarab beetle\". The scarab, also known as the \"dung beetle\", buries its most valuable possession, its eggs, in dung, which it then rolls into a ball using its back legs. Eichenseer sees this as symbolic for fairytales, which she says hold the most valuable treasure known to man: ancient knowledge and wisdom to do with human development, testing our limits and salvation.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth spent decades asking country folk, labourers and servants about local habits, traditions, customs and history, and putting down on paper what had only been passed on by word of mouth. In 1885, Jacob Grimm said this about him: \"Nowhere in the whole of Germany is anyone collecting [folklore] so accurately, thoroughly and with such a sensitive ear.\" Grimm went so far as to tell King Maximilian II of Bavaria that the only person who could replace him in his and his brother's work was Von Sch\u00f6nwerth.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth compiled his research into a book called Aus der Oberpfalz \u2013 Sitten und Sagen, which came out in three volumes in 1857, 1858 and 1859. The book never gained prominence and faded into obscurity.While sifting through Von Sch\u00f6nwerth's work, Eichenseer found 500 fairytales, many of which do not appear in other European fairytale collections. For example, there is the tale of a maiden who escapes a witch by transforming herself into a pond. The witch then lies on her stomach and drinks all the water, swallowing the young girl, who uses a knife to cut her way out of the witch. However, the collection also includes local versions of the tales children all over the world have grown up with including Cinderella and Rumpelstiltskin, and which appear in many different versions across Europe.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth was a historian and recorded what he heard faithfully, making no attempt to put a literary gloss on it, which is where he differs from the Grimm brothers. However, says Eichenseer, this factual recording adds to the charm and authenticity of the material. What delights her most about the tales is that they are unpolished. \"There is no romanticising or attempt by Sch\u00f6nwerth to interpret or develop his own style,\" she says.Eichenseer says the fairytales are not for children alone. \"Their main purpose was to help young adults on their path to adulthood, showing them that dangers and challenges can be overcome through virtue, prudence and courage.\"In 2008, Eichenseer helped to found the Franz Xaver von Sch\u00f6nwerth Society, an interdisciplinary committee devoted to analysing his work and publicising it. She is keen to see the tales available in English, and a Munich-based English translator, Dan Szabo, has already begun work on stories ranging from a miserly farmer and a money-mill to a turnip princess.\"Sch\u00f6nwerth's legacy counts as the most significant collection in the German-speaking world in the 19th century,\" says Daniel Drascek, a member of the society and a professor in the faculty of language, literature and cultural sciences at the University of Regensburg.", "tags": ["Fairytales", "Books", "Culture", "Germany"], "title": "Five hundred new fairytales discovered in Germany"},{"date": "2012-03-04T18:24:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has run out of patience. It was obvious at the EU summit on Friday when the German delegation let it be known that the second rescue package for Greece must be the final word. If it proves too small, and Greece cannot afford to pay public sector wages, then it must default on its debts.Talking to senior German negotiators last week, I found a change in attitude that was shocking for its clear and cold-hearted resolution.Not so long ago Berlin was concerned to be viewed as a champion of European unity. There was a genuine fear that a Greek default would terminate 50 years of building towards a European super state.Now Greece, in its enfeebled state, fails two tests. First, German officials are convinced it remains riddled with corruption, grift and racketeering such that it is impossible to make any agreements stick. Second, there is a better firewall to protect the eurozone from further shocks. The firewall is the \u20ac440bn European financial stability facility and the prospect of accelerated payments by member states into its successor the ESM, which is enough to insure against a Greek bankruptcy when placed alongside the \u20ac219bn of sovereign loans by the European Central Bank and \u20ac1 trillion in ECB loans to tide the banking system through the worst of the crisis.With a firewall in place and no confidence Athens can implement a serious reform agenda, Greece is robbed of its negotiating power.\"There is no standing still for Greece. It must either move forward with reforms or leave,\" said one official.This leaves Greece in an impossible position. With sky-high debts, a five year recession stretching into at least another two and loan interest to pay, there is no way Athens can meet Brussel's demands.Even after the deal to write down its private sector debt to 120% of GDP, the economic situation can only improve with the kind of asset fire sale and mass wage cuts that leaves the political situation desperately unstable.As Terry Smith of money broker Tullet Prebon recently wrote: \"Greek budget numbers show government revenue decreased 4.9% in January and spending rose 8%. Revenues fell from \u20ac5.122bn to \u20ac4.872bn. Spending rose from \u20ac4.967bn to \u20ac5.362bn. Apparently this is a different budget to the one that the Euro budget police look at.\"The German finance ministry under Wolfgang Schaeuble knows it has failed to put Greece in a sustainable position \u2013 with a platform from which it can bring forward reforms \u2013 but it doesn't care.In a tragi-comic twist, the view from Berlin echoes that of many Greeks, including Taki, the Spectator's High Life columnist, who took time out in his 25 February article to document his compatriots' faults. He said: \"They still believe in the most thieving politicians this side of Nigeria,\" who, in turn, protect a vast army of overpaid civil servants that operate through patronage and bribes.The German foreign ministry is of a similar view.Zsolt Darvas, an economist at the Breugel research institute in Brussels agrees that the Germans have done enough to isolate Greece, but says their argument that the eurozone can now plan for growth is flawed.There are the Spanish youth unemployment figures, at 49.9%. No wonder prime minister Mariano Rajoy has already told his German counterpart Angela Merkel he needs respite from her demands for cuts. Not for more than a century has medical science recommended bleeding patients to make them better, yet some economic scientists cling to this remedy. Germans, keen to protect their wealth, are slavish adherents.In Italy, where a clampdown on spending has brought plaudits, unemployment is rising and national politics is becoming more polarised. The technocrat in charge, Mario Monti, has plans to end age-old restrictive practices, but there are plenty of politicians in Silvio Berlusconi's party and the leftist New Democracy waiting to wreck them: not because they are delinquent, but because they represent people who will suffer huge falls in living standards.Portugal, the Germans reassure themselves, is knuckling down in a way the Greeks can only dream of. Likewise the Irish. Yet while many Irish politicians consider the pain of austerity a much deserved penance for past sins, the Portuguese are clear they have nothing to apologise for.Willem Buiter, chief economist at Citigroup, points out that weaker members of the eurozone collectively need to borrow some \u20ac2tn over the next two years. He argues that the only way to borrow this sum is for a more collective plan. One that entails some form of joint liability for countries' debts. \"A proposal from the German council of economic experts for a European debt redemption fund, which would mutualise all eurozone members' debts above 60% of GDP, with strict rules to pay them off over 25 years, is gaining traction in some quarters. Germany itself remains staunchly opposed to anything that smells of Eurobonds, and the current period of calm has only reinforced that resistance.\"Everything the Germans want could be undone without a more forgiving attitude. If the EU presses ahead with fines for countries that fail to meet new tough deficit targets, the riots in Barcelona last week could be the first round in a widespread revolt.", "tags": ["Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Europe", "Greece", "Germany"], "title": "Germany has run out of patience"},{"date": "2012-03-02T19:05:46Z", "country": "germany", "content": "You can have too much of a good thing, it turns out. The German government has said it has been forced to cut subsidies for solar panels, because demand was so high it could no longer afford to support the green technology.Friday's announcement has left Germans rushing to install solar panels on buildings ahead of the planned cut in subsidies of up to 30%.The government has explained its decision as a way of slowing the rapid growth in the sector, saying it was one of Germany's success stories, but had been allowed to grow too fast and had been too heavily subsidised.\"We've already seen a huge reduction in the incentives in the past few years but the incentives were still too high,\" the environment minister, Norbert R\u00f6ttgen, said. \"Solar is a success story made in Germany. We want it to be an acceptable technology not only in the future but right now but the cost factor has to be at acceptable levels.\"Environmentalists, renewable energy experts and industry representatives have expressed incredulity at the 30% cut from 9 March, following earlier cuts of up to 50% over the past three years. They said it was a huge blow for the fledgling industry and a contradiction in terms for a country planning to phase out nuclear power.\"This plan amounts to nothing less than a solar phase-out law,\" said David Wedepohl, spokesman for the German Solar Industry Association, which represents 800 solar companies. \"Under these circumstances there's no way that the transition of the energy industry can be successful. It's also putting tens of thousands of jobs at risk, and it's tough both on investors and on citizens who want to be part of the energy transformation.\"Germany is the world's top installer of photovoltaic power, with a capacity of around 25,000 megawatts, almost as much as the rest of the world put together. It added a record 7,500 megawatts in 2011.The sun provides from 3.2% to \u2013 on sunny days at midday\u2013 up to 25% of Germany's energy.Wedepohl admitted: \"You could say we are the victims of our own success. The costs of solar energy have come down immensely due to technological development and scaleability so we're scratching our heads and wondering: why stop supporting this now?\"Germany has seen a huge increase in use of solar panels over the last two years, thanks to a subsidy system that utility companies are obliged to pay to people who generate their own solar power, which is then pumped into the grid. Power companies pass on the costs to their customers in their electricity bill. At a time of rising prices the government argues that it has to lessen the financial impact on consumers by decreasing the subsidies.The solar sector boom has seen everyone from farms to kindergartens making the most of the opportunities to erect solar panels on their roofs. There has even been a trend to form co-operatives and rent space on the roof of public buildings that have installed panels, such as swimming pools or schools. There are now 1.1m such systems in Germany.The proposed cuts would see the feed in tariff subsidy falling to 19.5 cents per kilowatt hour (kWh) for small plants, and to 13.5 cents for plants of up to 10 megawatts. German retail electricity prices are between 21 and 24 cents per kWh.The decision must still pass through the cabinet and parliament but political observers believe it is likely to be approved.On Monday thousands of demonstrators are planning to gather at Berlin's Brandenburg Gate to protest under the banner \"Stop the Solar Phase Out\".At a time when solar power is on the verge of costing the same as conventional power, due in large part to the fall in the costs of solar panels and their installation, renewable energy sector representatives have expressed their suspicions that the cuts are an attempt to appease the major energy companies who are losing out greatly to renewables, particularly since the decision last year to phase out nuclear power following the Fukishima disaster in Japan.\"We're taking a part of the market away for large electricity suppliers,\" said Wedepohl. \"But as a country we made a decision after Fukishima to phase out nuclear energy, so we need a lot of power.\"", "tags": ["Solar power", "Germany", "Renewable energy", "Energy", "Environment", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany to cut solar power subsidies"},{"date": "2012-02-27T17:07:27Z", "country": "germany", "content": "What's interesting in looking through newsreel archives is how the editorial policy of the day differs from what is now received history. So, although rock'n'roll arrived in Britain in the winter of 1955-6 with the success of Bill Haley and the Comets' Rock Around the Clock (No 1 in early January), there is comparatively little material relating to rock'n'roll in Path\u00e9's archive from 1956.Nowhere is there anything about Elvis Presley, who had four major hits that year, nor anything about the late-summer furore that accompanied the release of the film Rock Around the Clock \u2013 a heady brew of excited newspaper reports and censorious local councils reacting to a bit of gang warfare and youthful high spirits.Rock'n'roll's impact went way beyond the music, which was exciting enough. It provided a focus for an emerging youth subculture that, once twinned with the commercial success of Elvis, Bill Haley, Gene Vincent et al, became ever more confident, assertive and visible. In Britain, rock'n'roll hooked into the already established teddy boy style, the adherents of which needed no lessons in disorder.The Teds, as the singer and pop historian Ian Whitcomb later remembered, took to the beat's implied violence like ducks to water. On the London underground one day in 1956, he \"saw marching towards me in uneven ranks a mass of costumed youths, flaying their arms out, and reciting their war chant: 'One, two, three o'clock, four o'clock fuck! We're gonna fuck around the clock tonight!' They had found their martial rallying music and it was Bill's.\"However, this late 1956 footage comes not from the UK but from Hamburg, Germany. The opening phrase \"the rock'n'roll craze\" suggests this was already a media trope, and the corny jive terminology (\"They ain't squares\") is Path\u00e9 business as usual, as is the rather stagey nature of what they decide to film.The music is that peculiar big band/jazz/rock hybrid that was popular at that time in Europe, as players struggled to adjust to the demands of the big beat. The first British rock'n'roll bands were formed by jazzers such as Tony Crombie \u2013 as a drummer, he understood how the beat had to come first \u2013 and Don Lang, who fronted the house band on the very first post-rock'n'roll BBC show, Six-Five Special.Today, the footage \u2013 cracker barrel, the same old shots that have since been rolled out again and again \u2013 looks all too familiar. But this was the first time many Path\u00e9 viewers would have seen rock'n'roll. What's routine to us now after years of music documentaries, all building up to an agreed (though often incorrect) history, would have seemed very different in 1956.So you have to use fresh eyes, and try to recapture the feeling. The dancing is actually pretty great: check out the slide at 0:47 and the rigid spasms at 0:49. The crowd shots are fabulous, and that's where you see the excitement: whole hordes of Halbstarken (half-strongs, the German equivalent of Teds) coming alive in front of the camera. You can see the light in their eyes.There's no trouble here, but lots of frantic movement and the sense of something barely contained. Something did change in 1956, and the contrast between the Path\u00e9 voiceover and the actual images is part of the story in itself. Youthful hi-jinks would set the tone for all future rock'n'roll newsreels, but that's only because it really happened. The crowd shot at the end is a portent of future disturbances to come.(If you're interested in music and youth culture from this period, please read Pete Frame's The Restless Generation: How Rock Music Changed the Face of 1950's Britain \u2013 published in 2007 by Rogan House. It's a proper social history, containing many interviews with key musicians, a clear time-line, a sense of the outside world and just the right amount of personal engagement. I can't recommend it highly enough.)", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Elvis Presley", "Music documentary", "Film", "Culture"], "title": "Pop at the pictures: Rock'n'roll hits Germany"},{"date": "2012-02-10T14:15:11Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Germans want the Greeks out. That is the clear message from the decision by Europe's finance ministers to reject the offer of a fresh package of austerity measures in return for a \u20ac130bn (\u00a3108bn) bailout. Over the past few days it has been painfully evident that Greece's coalition government was having real trouble securing agreement on the deal but it has now been told to cut some more. Berlin wants a full pound of flesh.The Germans would say that the tough approach is justified by Greece's record in making promises and then not keeping them. After the mass downgrade by Standard & Poor's of European sovereigns last month, the remaining AAA-rated countries \u2013 including Germany \u2013 are more determined than ever to show their fiscal mettle. There is visceral loathing of Greece in Germany.Mind you, the Greeks are not too keen on the Germans either. They believe that the draconian terms for financial assistance are condemning the economy to permanent recession, and by killing off growth ensuring that the country's debt problem cannot be cured. Being asked to cut further when you know it is pointless may be one humiliation too far.The question, therefore, is whether the Greeks are being forced into a position where they reject the Carthaginian peace terms presented to them by the rest of Europe and decide that, however tough life is going to be outside the single currency (and make no mistake, it would be), it can be no worse than sticking to the status quo.With one important caveat, this would be a good outcome for Angela Merkel. If Greece decided to quit the euro of its own volition, she could say she had done all she could to keep the single currency intact but, in the end, the Greeks themselves had decided it was time to go.The caveat is, of course, that a Greek departure would be orderly rather than disruptive. If the Germans, and the other hardliners, are trying to force the issue it is because they believe that the actions taken by the European Central Bank over the past couple of months have been sufficient to ensure no contagion effects from Greece to the other debt-stricken eurozone members and, just as importantly, to the fragile European banking system.That is one heck of a gamble, and don't be surprised if it fails. Ever since it became obvious in late 2009 that Greece had a whopping debt problem, the crisis has been handled ham-fistedly. Nothing has been learned along the way, obviously.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "Economics", "Greece", "Germany", "European monetary union"], "title": "European debt crisis pitches Germany against Greece"},{"date": "2012-01-25T19:23:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Donald Tusk is the victor on the Vistula, Poland's pre-eminent politician, untroubled by opposition or dissent on the domestic stage. Re-elected late last year with an enhanced majority, Tusk does not even have to worry about the voters.The prime minister is clearly aware of his impregnable position. So sure of himself in fact that he openly humiliates party rivals whom once he might have tolerated. He has also given up his former reticence over attacking the opposition, and now goes at them in a manner that has been described as below the belt.As communism fell apart at the end of the 1980s, Tusk belonged to a group of young intellectuals around the Solidarity union who saw Poland's place in the European union. After 1989, he became one of the leading lights of the liberal movement, which espoused the market economy and declared war on the state bureaucracy. He agitated for an end to prejudice and wrote a book about the good interactions between Germans and Poles in the city of Gdansk, before it became a 20th-century bone of contention.But Tusk was to discover that his vision of modernisation was a bit too radical for the majority. The liberals were politically marginalised and it took him years to find his way back into the political big time. He transformed himself into a conservative and made his peace with the Catholic church, finally having his civil partnership blessed in church. These days, he demands a strong state; his old mantra about slimming it down has long since been forgotten. He also does not let himself get deflected by issues such as the church's place in society or the ban on abortion, because he doesn't want to get bogged down in battles he knows he can't win.Instead, his absolute priority is Poland's deeper integration into Europe. If there is such a thing in Poland as a pro-European, Tusk is it. He stresses at every opportunity that a well-functioning EU lies in Poland's interests. The overwhelming majority of his compatriots see things the same way. They understand that Poland is a big beneficiary of the EU's internal largesse \u2013 Poland is by some distance the biggest net receiver of EU funding. Even provincial folk who once were nervous of the EU have come round. Farmers benefit from strong demand for foodstuffs from other EU countries.But this concept brings its own difficulties. Tusk, who speaks good German, has taken up close collaboration with the Germans, something a large proportion of his countrymen view with some scepticism.He has long been on familiar terms with Angela Merkel. While the first-ever Polish president of the EU in the second half of last year, he supported the position of the German chancellor, who demanded austerity measures from the crisis-hit EU countries. But at the same time, his government tried to build an alliance of EU nations who are net recipients from the EU budget, against net contributor nations.Berlin and Paris were not pleased. Tusk cannot afford a diminution of EU funds for Poland. In his first term in office, Poland's budget deficit more than doubled. He is therefore two things: a European from inner conviction, and out of need.", "tags": ["Poland", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Donald Tusk"], "title": "Donald Tusk \u2013 the view from Germany"},{"date": "2012-03-05T15:25:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A whole new world of magic animals, brave young princes and evil witches has come to light with the discovery of 500 new fairytales, which were locked away in an archive in Regensburg, Germany for over 150 years. The tales are part of a collection of myths, legends and fairytales, gathered by the local historian Franz Xaver von Sch\u00f6nwerth (1810\u20131886) in the Bavarian region of Oberpfalz at about the same time as the Grimm brothers were collecting the fairytales that have since charmed adults and children around the world.Last year, the Oberpfalz cultural curator Erika Eichenseer published a selection of fairytales from Von Sch\u00f6nwerth's collection, calling the book Prinz Ro\u00dfzwifl. This is local dialect for \"scarab beetle\". The scarab, also known as the \"dung beetle\", buries its most valuable possession, its eggs, in dung, which it then rolls into a ball using its back legs. Eichenseer sees this as symbolic for fairytales, which she says hold the most valuable treasure known to man: ancient knowledge and wisdom to do with human development, testing our limits and salvation.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth spent decades asking country folk, labourers and servants about local habits, traditions, customs and history, and putting down on paper what had only been passed on by word of mouth. In 1885, Jacob Grimm said this about him: \"Nowhere in the whole of Germany is anyone collecting [folklore] so accurately, thoroughly and with such a sensitive ear.\" Grimm went so far as to tell King Maximilian II of Bavaria that the only person who could replace him in his and his brother's work was Von Sch\u00f6nwerth.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth compiled his research into a book called Aus der Oberpfalz \u2013 Sitten und Sagen, which came out in three volumes in 1857, 1858 and 1859. The book never gained prominence and faded into obscurity.While sifting through Von Sch\u00f6nwerth's work, Eichenseer found 500 fairytales, many of which do not appear in other European fairytale collections. For example, there is the tale of a maiden who escapes a witch by transforming herself into a pond. The witch then lies on her stomach and drinks all the water, swallowing the young girl, who uses a knife to cut her way out of the witch. However, the collection also includes local versions of the tales children all over the world have grown up with including Cinderella and Rumpelstiltskin, and which appear in many different versions across Europe.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth was a historian and recorded what he heard faithfully, making no attempt to put a literary gloss on it, which is where he differs from the Grimm brothers. However, says Eichenseer, this factual recording adds to the charm and authenticity of the material. What delights her most about the tales is that they are unpolished. \"There is no romanticising or attempt by Sch\u00f6nwerth to interpret or develop his own style,\" she says.Eichenseer says the fairytales are not for children alone. \"Their main purpose was to help young adults on their path to adulthood, showing them that dangers and challenges can be overcome through virtue, prudence and courage.\"In 2008, Eichenseer helped to found the Franz Xaver von Sch\u00f6nwerth Society, an interdisciplinary committee devoted to analysing his work and publicising it. She is keen to see the tales available in English, and a Munich-based English translator, Dan Szabo, has already begun work on stories ranging from a miserly farmer and a money-mill to a turnip princess.\"Sch\u00f6nwerth's legacy counts as the most significant collection in the German-speaking world in the 19th century,\" says Daniel Drascek, a member of the society and a professor in the faculty of language, literature and cultural sciences at the University of Regensburg.", "tags": ["Fairytales", "Books", "Culture", "Germany"], "title": "Five hundred new fairytales discovered in Germany"},{"date": "2012-03-04T18:24:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has run out of patience. It was obvious at the EU summit on Friday when the German delegation let it be known that the second rescue package for Greece must be the final word. If it proves too small, and Greece cannot afford to pay public sector wages, then it must default on its debts.Talking to senior German negotiators last week, I found a change in attitude that was shocking for its clear and cold-hearted resolution.Not so long ago Berlin was concerned to be viewed as a champion of European unity. There was a genuine fear that a Greek default would terminate 50 years of building towards a European super state.Now Greece, in its enfeebled state, fails two tests. First, German officials are convinced it remains riddled with corruption, grift and racketeering such that it is impossible to make any agreements stick. Second, there is a better firewall to protect the eurozone from further shocks. The firewall is the \u20ac440bn European financial stability facility and the prospect of accelerated payments by member states into its successor the ESM, which is enough to insure against a Greek bankruptcy when placed alongside the \u20ac219bn of sovereign loans by the European Central Bank and \u20ac1 trillion in ECB loans to tide the banking system through the worst of the crisis.With a firewall in place and no confidence Athens can implement a serious reform agenda, Greece is robbed of its negotiating power.\"There is no standing still for Greece. It must either move forward with reforms or leave,\" said one official.This leaves Greece in an impossible position. With sky-high debts, a five year recession stretching into at least another two and loan interest to pay, there is no way Athens can meet Brussel's demands.Even after the deal to write down its private sector debt to 120% of GDP, the economic situation can only improve with the kind of asset fire sale and mass wage cuts that leaves the political situation desperately unstable.As Terry Smith of money broker Tullet Prebon recently wrote: \"Greek budget numbers show government revenue decreased 4.9% in January and spending rose 8%. Revenues fell from \u20ac5.122bn to \u20ac4.872bn. Spending rose from \u20ac4.967bn to \u20ac5.362bn. Apparently this is a different budget to the one that the Euro budget police look at.\"The German finance ministry under Wolfgang Schaeuble knows it has failed to put Greece in a sustainable position \u2013 with a platform from which it can bring forward reforms \u2013 but it doesn't care.In a tragi-comic twist, the view from Berlin echoes that of many Greeks, including Taki, the Spectator's High Life columnist, who took time out in his 25 February article to document his compatriots' faults. He said: \"They still believe in the most thieving politicians this side of Nigeria,\" who, in turn, protect a vast army of overpaid civil servants that operate through patronage and bribes.The German foreign ministry is of a similar view.Zsolt Darvas, an economist at the Breugel research institute in Brussels agrees that the Germans have done enough to isolate Greece, but says their argument that the eurozone can now plan for growth is flawed.There are the Spanish youth unemployment figures, at 49.9%. No wonder prime minister Mariano Rajoy has already told his German counterpart Angela Merkel he needs respite from her demands for cuts. Not for more than a century has medical science recommended bleeding patients to make them better, yet some economic scientists cling to this remedy. Germans, keen to protect their wealth, are slavish adherents.In Italy, where a clampdown on spending has brought plaudits, unemployment is rising and national politics is becoming more polarised. The technocrat in charge, Mario Monti, has plans to end age-old restrictive practices, but there are plenty of politicians in Silvio Berlusconi's party and the leftist New Democracy waiting to wreck them: not because they are delinquent, but because they represent people who will suffer huge falls in living standards.Portugal, the Germans reassure themselves, is knuckling down in a way the Greeks can only dream of. Likewise the Irish. Yet while many Irish politicians consider the pain of austerity a much deserved penance for past sins, the Portuguese are clear they have nothing to apologise for.Willem Buiter, chief economist at Citigroup, points out that weaker members of the eurozone collectively need to borrow some \u20ac2tn over the next two years. He argues that the only way to borrow this sum is for a more collective plan. One that entails some form of joint liability for countries' debts. \"A proposal from the German council of economic experts for a European debt redemption fund, which would mutualise all eurozone members' debts above 60% of GDP, with strict rules to pay them off over 25 years, is gaining traction in some quarters. Germany itself remains staunchly opposed to anything that smells of Eurobonds, and the current period of calm has only reinforced that resistance.\"Everything the Germans want could be undone without a more forgiving attitude. If the EU presses ahead with fines for countries that fail to meet new tough deficit targets, the riots in Barcelona last week could be the first round in a widespread revolt.", "tags": ["Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Europe", "Greece", "Germany"], "title": "Germany has run out of patience"},{"date": "2012-03-02T19:05:46Z", "country": "germany", "content": "You can have too much of a good thing, it turns out. The German government has said it has been forced to cut subsidies for solar panels, because demand was so high it could no longer afford to support the green technology.Friday's announcement has left Germans rushing to install solar panels on buildings ahead of the planned cut in subsidies of up to 30%.The government has explained its decision as a way of slowing the rapid growth in the sector, saying it was one of Germany's success stories, but had been allowed to grow too fast and had been too heavily subsidised.\"We've already seen a huge reduction in the incentives in the past few years but the incentives were still too high,\" the environment minister, Norbert R\u00f6ttgen, said. \"Solar is a success story made in Germany. We want it to be an acceptable technology not only in the future but right now but the cost factor has to be at acceptable levels.\"Environmentalists, renewable energy experts and industry representatives have expressed incredulity at the 30% cut from 9 March, following earlier cuts of up to 50% over the past three years. They said it was a huge blow for the fledgling industry and a contradiction in terms for a country planning to phase out nuclear power.\"This plan amounts to nothing less than a solar phase-out law,\" said David Wedepohl, spokesman for the German Solar Industry Association, which represents 800 solar companies. \"Under these circumstances there's no way that the transition of the energy industry can be successful. It's also putting tens of thousands of jobs at risk, and it's tough both on investors and on citizens who want to be part of the energy transformation.\"Germany is the world's top installer of photovoltaic power, with a capacity of around 25,000 megawatts, almost as much as the rest of the world put together. It added a record 7,500 megawatts in 2011.The sun provides from 3.2% to \u2013 on sunny days at midday\u2013 up to 25% of Germany's energy.Wedepohl admitted: \"You could say we are the victims of our own success. The costs of solar energy have come down immensely due to technological development and scaleability so we're scratching our heads and wondering: why stop supporting this now?\"Germany has seen a huge increase in use of solar panels over the last two years, thanks to a subsidy system that utility companies are obliged to pay to people who generate their own solar power, which is then pumped into the grid. Power companies pass on the costs to their customers in their electricity bill. At a time of rising prices the government argues that it has to lessen the financial impact on consumers by decreasing the subsidies.The solar sector boom has seen everyone from farms to kindergartens making the most of the opportunities to erect solar panels on their roofs. There has even been a trend to form co-operatives and rent space on the roof of public buildings that have installed panels, such as swimming pools or schools. There are now 1.1m such systems in Germany.The proposed cuts would see the feed in tariff subsidy falling to 19.5 cents per kilowatt hour (kWh) for small plants, and to 13.5 cents for plants of up to 10 megawatts. German retail electricity prices are between 21 and 24 cents per kWh.The decision must still pass through the cabinet and parliament but political observers believe it is likely to be approved.On Monday thousands of demonstrators are planning to gather at Berlin's Brandenburg Gate to protest under the banner \"Stop the Solar Phase Out\".At a time when solar power is on the verge of costing the same as conventional power, due in large part to the fall in the costs of solar panels and their installation, renewable energy sector representatives have expressed their suspicions that the cuts are an attempt to appease the major energy companies who are losing out greatly to renewables, particularly since the decision last year to phase out nuclear power following the Fukishima disaster in Japan.\"We're taking a part of the market away for large electricity suppliers,\" said Wedepohl. \"But as a country we made a decision after Fukishima to phase out nuclear energy, so we need a lot of power.\"", "tags": ["Solar power", "Germany", "Renewable energy", "Energy", "Environment", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany to cut solar power subsidies"},{"date": "2012-02-27T17:07:27Z", "country": "germany", "content": "What's interesting in looking through newsreel archives is how the editorial policy of the day differs from what is now received history. So, although rock'n'roll arrived in Britain in the winter of 1955-6 with the success of Bill Haley and the Comets' Rock Around the Clock (No 1 in early January), there is comparatively little material relating to rock'n'roll in Path\u00e9's archive from 1956.Nowhere is there anything about Elvis Presley, who had four major hits that year, nor anything about the late-summer furore that accompanied the release of the film Rock Around the Clock \u2013 a heady brew of excited newspaper reports and censorious local councils reacting to a bit of gang warfare and youthful high spirits.Rock'n'roll's impact went way beyond the music, which was exciting enough. It provided a focus for an emerging youth subculture that, once twinned with the commercial success of Elvis, Bill Haley, Gene Vincent et al, became ever more confident, assertive and visible. In Britain, rock'n'roll hooked into the already established teddy boy style, the adherents of which needed no lessons in disorder.The Teds, as the singer and pop historian Ian Whitcomb later remembered, took to the beat's implied violence like ducks to water. On the London underground one day in 1956, he \"saw marching towards me in uneven ranks a mass of costumed youths, flaying their arms out, and reciting their war chant: 'One, two, three o'clock, four o'clock fuck! We're gonna fuck around the clock tonight!' They had found their martial rallying music and it was Bill's.\"However, this late 1956 footage comes not from the UK but from Hamburg, Germany. The opening phrase \"the rock'n'roll craze\" suggests this was already a media trope, and the corny jive terminology (\"They ain't squares\") is Path\u00e9 business as usual, as is the rather stagey nature of what they decide to film.The music is that peculiar big band/jazz/rock hybrid that was popular at that time in Europe, as players struggled to adjust to the demands of the big beat. The first British rock'n'roll bands were formed by jazzers such as Tony Crombie \u2013 as a drummer, he understood how the beat had to come first \u2013 and Don Lang, who fronted the house band on the very first post-rock'n'roll BBC show, Six-Five Special.Today, the footage \u2013 cracker barrel, the same old shots that have since been rolled out again and again \u2013 looks all too familiar. But this was the first time many Path\u00e9 viewers would have seen rock'n'roll. What's routine to us now after years of music documentaries, all building up to an agreed (though often incorrect) history, would have seemed very different in 1956.So you have to use fresh eyes, and try to recapture the feeling. The dancing is actually pretty great: check out the slide at 0:47 and the rigid spasms at 0:49. The crowd shots are fabulous, and that's where you see the excitement: whole hordes of Halbstarken (half-strongs, the German equivalent of Teds) coming alive in front of the camera. You can see the light in their eyes.There's no trouble here, but lots of frantic movement and the sense of something barely contained. Something did change in 1956, and the contrast between the Path\u00e9 voiceover and the actual images is part of the story in itself. Youthful hi-jinks would set the tone for all future rock'n'roll newsreels, but that's only because it really happened. The crowd shot at the end is a portent of future disturbances to come.(If you're interested in music and youth culture from this period, please read Pete Frame's The Restless Generation: How Rock Music Changed the Face of 1950's Britain \u2013 published in 2007 by Rogan House. It's a proper social history, containing many interviews with key musicians, a clear time-line, a sense of the outside world and just the right amount of personal engagement. I can't recommend it highly enough.)", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Elvis Presley", "Music documentary", "Film", "Culture"], "title": "Pop at the pictures: Rock'n'roll hits Germany"},{"date": "2012-02-10T14:15:11Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Germans want the Greeks out. That is the clear message from the decision by Europe's finance ministers to reject the offer of a fresh package of austerity measures in return for a \u20ac130bn (\u00a3108bn) bailout. Over the past few days it has been painfully evident that Greece's coalition government was having real trouble securing agreement on the deal but it has now been told to cut some more. Berlin wants a full pound of flesh.The Germans would say that the tough approach is justified by Greece's record in making promises and then not keeping them. After the mass downgrade by Standard & Poor's of European sovereigns last month, the remaining AAA-rated countries \u2013 including Germany \u2013 are more determined than ever to show their fiscal mettle. There is visceral loathing of Greece in Germany.Mind you, the Greeks are not too keen on the Germans either. They believe that the draconian terms for financial assistance are condemning the economy to permanent recession, and by killing off growth ensuring that the country's debt problem cannot be cured. Being asked to cut further when you know it is pointless may be one humiliation too far.The question, therefore, is whether the Greeks are being forced into a position where they reject the Carthaginian peace terms presented to them by the rest of Europe and decide that, however tough life is going to be outside the single currency (and make no mistake, it would be), it can be no worse than sticking to the status quo.With one important caveat, this would be a good outcome for Angela Merkel. If Greece decided to quit the euro of its own volition, she could say she had done all she could to keep the single currency intact but, in the end, the Greeks themselves had decided it was time to go.The caveat is, of course, that a Greek departure would be orderly rather than disruptive. If the Germans, and the other hardliners, are trying to force the issue it is because they believe that the actions taken by the European Central Bank over the past couple of months have been sufficient to ensure no contagion effects from Greece to the other debt-stricken eurozone members and, just as importantly, to the fragile European banking system.That is one heck of a gamble, and don't be surprised if it fails. Ever since it became obvious in late 2009 that Greece had a whopping debt problem, the crisis has been handled ham-fistedly. Nothing has been learned along the way, obviously.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "Economics", "Greece", "Germany", "European monetary union"], "title": "European debt crisis pitches Germany against Greece"},{"date": "2012-01-25T19:23:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Donald Tusk is the victor on the Vistula, Poland's pre-eminent politician, untroubled by opposition or dissent on the domestic stage. Re-elected late last year with an enhanced majority, Tusk does not even have to worry about the voters.The prime minister is clearly aware of his impregnable position. So sure of himself in fact that he openly humiliates party rivals whom once he might have tolerated. He has also given up his former reticence over attacking the opposition, and now goes at them in a manner that has been described as below the belt.As communism fell apart at the end of the 1980s, Tusk belonged to a group of young intellectuals around the Solidarity union who saw Poland's place in the European union. After 1989, he became one of the leading lights of the liberal movement, which espoused the market economy and declared war on the state bureaucracy. He agitated for an end to prejudice and wrote a book about the good interactions between Germans and Poles in the city of Gdansk, before it became a 20th-century bone of contention.But Tusk was to discover that his vision of modernisation was a bit too radical for the majority. The liberals were politically marginalised and it took him years to find his way back into the political big time. He transformed himself into a conservative and made his peace with the Catholic church, finally having his civil partnership blessed in church. These days, he demands a strong state; his old mantra about slimming it down has long since been forgotten. He also does not let himself get deflected by issues such as the church's place in society or the ban on abortion, because he doesn't want to get bogged down in battles he knows he can't win.Instead, his absolute priority is Poland's deeper integration into Europe. If there is such a thing in Poland as a pro-European, Tusk is it. He stresses at every opportunity that a well-functioning EU lies in Poland's interests. The overwhelming majority of his compatriots see things the same way. They understand that Poland is a big beneficiary of the EU's internal largesse \u2013 Poland is by some distance the biggest net receiver of EU funding. Even provincial folk who once were nervous of the EU have come round. Farmers benefit from strong demand for foodstuffs from other EU countries.But this concept brings its own difficulties. Tusk, who speaks good German, has taken up close collaboration with the Germans, something a large proportion of his countrymen view with some scepticism.He has long been on familiar terms with Angela Merkel. While the first-ever Polish president of the EU in the second half of last year, he supported the position of the German chancellor, who demanded austerity measures from the crisis-hit EU countries. But at the same time, his government tried to build an alliance of EU nations who are net recipients from the EU budget, against net contributor nations.Berlin and Paris were not pleased. Tusk cannot afford a diminution of EU funds for Poland. In his first term in office, Poland's budget deficit more than doubled. He is therefore two things: a European from inner conviction, and out of need.", "tags": ["Poland", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Donald Tusk"], "title": "Donald Tusk \u2013 the view from Germany"},{"date": "2012-03-30T15:36:20Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Does Angela Merkel know more about La France profonde than the rest of us? Or is she simply being her usual shrewd, canny self, a hedger of bets when it comes to Europe's election of the year?Merkel has, of course, already pinned her colours firmly to Sarkozy's mast, controversially offering to campaign for him and then feeling miffed when Sarkozy said thanks but no thanks after going all eurosceptic in the hunt for votes.But Der Spiegel today shows the Merkel camp discreetly putting out feelers to the people around Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the first signs from Berlin of fence-mending with the man who might be president.\"There are no official links, just messages being exchanged between aides,\" Jean-Marc Ayrault, the French Socialists' parliamentary leader who is close to Hollande, is quoted as saying.It looks like the beginnings of a thaw in what for the past few weeks has been a frosty climate. There remain acute policy differences, but the likelihood is strong that, in terms of personal chemistry at least, a President Hollande and Chancellor Merkel will rub along fine.The intensity of the postwar Franco-German relationship tends to prevail despite, rather than because, of who happens to be in office on either side of the Rhine. There is no love lost between Merkel and Sarkozy, the one methodical, the other mercurial. They irritate one another. But they bury their distaste for what they see as the greater European good.That's very much in the tradition of French and German leaders condemned to get along in public while privately often loathing one another.Jacques Chirac and Gerhard Schr\u00f6der had infamous middle-of-the-night screaming matches at EU summits. Fran\u00e7ois Mitterrand (like Margaret Thatcher) tried to sabotage Helmut K\u00f6hl's German reunification.But the deeply embedded alignment of the French and German states rumbles on regardless of who's in power and whether the leaders like one another.That alignment is currently embodied by Merkel's close aide and EU adviser, Nikolaus Meyer-Landrut (uncle of the eponymous Eurovision song winner Lena). He is a serious francophile. As Der Spiegel points out, he is married to a Frenchwoman, completed his academic thesis on France and German unification, and worked as spokesman for Valery Giscard D'Estaing, the former French president when he was heading the doomed attempt to write a constitution for Europe.And if the Merkel-Sarkozy relationship is one of pure expediency, on the surface and at the personal level she might like Hollande much more. In the WikiLeaks files, US diplomats in Berlin characterised Merkel as \"risk-averse\". Aides to Ed Miliband, following a recent lunch with Hollande in London, use exactly the same term to describe the presidential contender.", "tags": ["Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "French elections 2012", "Angela Merkel", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Europe", "World news", "France", "Germany"], "title": "France, Germany and Hollande - the new m\u00e9nage \u00e0 trois?"},{"date": "2012-03-05T15:25:38Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A whole new world of magic animals, brave young princes and evil witches has come to light with the discovery of 500 new fairytales, which were locked away in an archive in Regensburg, Germany for over 150 years. The tales are part of a collection of myths, legends and fairytales, gathered by the local historian Franz Xaver von Sch\u00f6nwerth (1810\u20131886) in the Bavarian region of Oberpfalz at about the same time as the Grimm brothers were collecting the fairytales that have since charmed adults and children around the world.Last year, the Oberpfalz cultural curator Erika Eichenseer published a selection of fairytales from Von Sch\u00f6nwerth's collection, calling the book Prinz Ro\u00dfzwifl. This is local dialect for \"scarab beetle\". The scarab, also known as the \"dung beetle\", buries its most valuable possession, its eggs, in dung, which it then rolls into a ball using its back legs. Eichenseer sees this as symbolic for fairytales, which she says hold the most valuable treasure known to man: ancient knowledge and wisdom to do with human development, testing our limits and salvation.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth spent decades asking country folk, labourers and servants about local habits, traditions, customs and history, and putting down on paper what had only been passed on by word of mouth. In 1885, Jacob Grimm said this about him: \"Nowhere in the whole of Germany is anyone collecting [folklore] so accurately, thoroughly and with such a sensitive ear.\" Grimm went so far as to tell King Maximilian II of Bavaria that the only person who could replace him in his and his brother's work was Von Sch\u00f6nwerth.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth compiled his research into a book called Aus der Oberpfalz \u2013 Sitten und Sagen, which came out in three volumes in 1857, 1858 and 1859. The book never gained prominence and faded into obscurity.While sifting through Von Sch\u00f6nwerth's work, Eichenseer found 500 fairytales, many of which do not appear in other European fairytale collections. For example, there is the tale of a maiden who escapes a witch by transforming herself into a pond. The witch then lies on her stomach and drinks all the water, swallowing the young girl, who uses a knife to cut her way out of the witch. However, the collection also includes local versions of the tales children all over the world have grown up with including Cinderella and Rumpelstiltskin, and which appear in many different versions across Europe.Von Sch\u00f6nwerth was a historian and recorded what he heard faithfully, making no attempt to put a literary gloss on it, which is where he differs from the Grimm brothers. However, says Eichenseer, this factual recording adds to the charm and authenticity of the material. What delights her most about the tales is that they are unpolished. \"There is no romanticising or attempt by Sch\u00f6nwerth to interpret or develop his own style,\" she says.Eichenseer says the fairytales are not for children alone. \"Their main purpose was to help young adults on their path to adulthood, showing them that dangers and challenges can be overcome through virtue, prudence and courage.\"In 2008, Eichenseer helped to found the Franz Xaver von Sch\u00f6nwerth Society, an interdisciplinary committee devoted to analysing his work and publicising it. She is keen to see the tales available in English, and a Munich-based English translator, Dan Szabo, has already begun work on stories ranging from a miserly farmer and a money-mill to a turnip princess.\"Sch\u00f6nwerth's legacy counts as the most significant collection in the German-speaking world in the 19th century,\" says Daniel Drascek, a member of the society and a professor in the faculty of language, literature and cultural sciences at the University of Regensburg.", "tags": ["Fairytales", "Books", "Culture", "Germany"], "title": "Five hundred new fairytales discovered in Germany"},{"date": "2012-03-04T18:24:22Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German government has run out of patience. It was obvious at the EU summit on Friday when the German delegation let it be known that the second rescue package for Greece must be the final word. If it proves too small, and Greece cannot afford to pay public sector wages, then it must default on its debts.Talking to senior German negotiators last week, I found a change in attitude that was shocking for its clear and cold-hearted resolution.Not so long ago Berlin was concerned to be viewed as a champion of European unity. There was a genuine fear that a Greek default would terminate 50 years of building towards a European super state.Now Greece, in its enfeebled state, fails two tests. First, German officials are convinced it remains riddled with corruption, grift and racketeering such that it is impossible to make any agreements stick. Second, there is a better firewall to protect the eurozone from further shocks. The firewall is the \u20ac440bn European financial stability facility and the prospect of accelerated payments by member states into its successor the ESM, which is enough to insure against a Greek bankruptcy when placed alongside the \u20ac219bn of sovereign loans by the European Central Bank and \u20ac1 trillion in ECB loans to tide the banking system through the worst of the crisis.With a firewall in place and no confidence Athens can implement a serious reform agenda, Greece is robbed of its negotiating power.\"There is no standing still for Greece. It must either move forward with reforms or leave,\" said one official.This leaves Greece in an impossible position. With sky-high debts, a five year recession stretching into at least another two and loan interest to pay, there is no way Athens can meet Brussel's demands.Even after the deal to write down its private sector debt to 120% of GDP, the economic situation can only improve with the kind of asset fire sale and mass wage cuts that leaves the political situation desperately unstable.As Terry Smith of money broker Tullet Prebon recently wrote: \"Greek budget numbers show government revenue decreased 4.9% in January and spending rose 8%. Revenues fell from \u20ac5.122bn to \u20ac4.872bn. Spending rose from \u20ac4.967bn to \u20ac5.362bn. Apparently this is a different budget to the one that the Euro budget police look at.\"The German finance ministry under Wolfgang Schaeuble knows it has failed to put Greece in a sustainable position \u2013 with a platform from which it can bring forward reforms \u2013 but it doesn't care.In a tragi-comic twist, the view from Berlin echoes that of many Greeks, including Taki, the Spectator's High Life columnist, who took time out in his 25 February article to document his compatriots' faults. He said: \"They still believe in the most thieving politicians this side of Nigeria,\" who, in turn, protect a vast army of overpaid civil servants that operate through patronage and bribes.The German foreign ministry is of a similar view.Zsolt Darvas, an economist at the Breugel research institute in Brussels agrees that the Germans have done enough to isolate Greece, but says their argument that the eurozone can now plan for growth is flawed.There are the Spanish youth unemployment figures, at 49.9%. No wonder prime minister Mariano Rajoy has already told his German counterpart Angela Merkel he needs respite from her demands for cuts. Not for more than a century has medical science recommended bleeding patients to make them better, yet some economic scientists cling to this remedy. Germans, keen to protect their wealth, are slavish adherents.In Italy, where a clampdown on spending has brought plaudits, unemployment is rising and national politics is becoming more polarised. The technocrat in charge, Mario Monti, has plans to end age-old restrictive practices, but there are plenty of politicians in Silvio Berlusconi's party and the leftist New Democracy waiting to wreck them: not because they are delinquent, but because they represent people who will suffer huge falls in living standards.Portugal, the Germans reassure themselves, is knuckling down in a way the Greeks can only dream of. Likewise the Irish. Yet while many Irish politicians consider the pain of austerity a much deserved penance for past sins, the Portuguese are clear they have nothing to apologise for.Willem Buiter, chief economist at Citigroup, points out that weaker members of the eurozone collectively need to borrow some \u20ac2tn over the next two years. He argues that the only way to borrow this sum is for a more collective plan. One that entails some form of joint liability for countries' debts. \"A proposal from the German council of economic experts for a European debt redemption fund, which would mutualise all eurozone members' debts above 60% of GDP, with strict rules to pay them off over 25 years, is gaining traction in some quarters. Germany itself remains staunchly opposed to anything that smells of Eurobonds, and the current period of calm has only reinforced that resistance.\"Everything the Germans want could be undone without a more forgiving attitude. If the EU presses ahead with fines for countries that fail to meet new tough deficit targets, the riots in Barcelona last week could be the first round in a widespread revolt.", "tags": ["Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Europe", "Greece", "Germany"], "title": "Germany has run out of patience"},{"date": "2012-03-02T19:05:46Z", "country": "germany", "content": "You can have too much of a good thing, it turns out. The German government has said it has been forced to cut subsidies for solar panels, because demand was so high it could no longer afford to support the green technology.Friday's announcement has left Germans rushing to install solar panels on buildings ahead of the planned cut in subsidies of up to 30%.The government has explained its decision as a way of slowing the rapid growth in the sector, saying it was one of Germany's success stories, but had been allowed to grow too fast and had been too heavily subsidised.\"We've already seen a huge reduction in the incentives in the past few years but the incentives were still too high,\" the environment minister, Norbert R\u00f6ttgen, said. \"Solar is a success story made in Germany. We want it to be an acceptable technology not only in the future but right now but the cost factor has to be at acceptable levels.\"Environmentalists, renewable energy experts and industry representatives have expressed incredulity at the 30% cut from 9 March, following earlier cuts of up to 50% over the past three years. They said it was a huge blow for the fledgling industry and a contradiction in terms for a country planning to phase out nuclear power.\"This plan amounts to nothing less than a solar phase-out law,\" said David Wedepohl, spokesman for the German Solar Industry Association, which represents 800 solar companies. \"Under these circumstances there's no way that the transition of the energy industry can be successful. It's also putting tens of thousands of jobs at risk, and it's tough both on investors and on citizens who want to be part of the energy transformation.\"Germany is the world's top installer of photovoltaic power, with a capacity of around 25,000 megawatts, almost as much as the rest of the world put together. It added a record 7,500 megawatts in 2011.The sun provides from 3.2% to \u2013 on sunny days at midday\u2013 up to 25% of Germany's energy.Wedepohl admitted: \"You could say we are the victims of our own success. The costs of solar energy have come down immensely due to technological development and scaleability so we're scratching our heads and wondering: why stop supporting this now?\"Germany has seen a huge increase in use of solar panels over the last two years, thanks to a subsidy system that utility companies are obliged to pay to people who generate their own solar power, which is then pumped into the grid. Power companies pass on the costs to their customers in their electricity bill. At a time of rising prices the government argues that it has to lessen the financial impact on consumers by decreasing the subsidies.The solar sector boom has seen everyone from farms to kindergartens making the most of the opportunities to erect solar panels on their roofs. There has even been a trend to form co-operatives and rent space on the roof of public buildings that have installed panels, such as swimming pools or schools. There are now 1.1m such systems in Germany.The proposed cuts would see the feed in tariff subsidy falling to 19.5 cents per kilowatt hour (kWh) for small plants, and to 13.5 cents for plants of up to 10 megawatts. German retail electricity prices are between 21 and 24 cents per kWh.The decision must still pass through the cabinet and parliament but political observers believe it is likely to be approved.On Monday thousands of demonstrators are planning to gather at Berlin's Brandenburg Gate to protest under the banner \"Stop the Solar Phase Out\".At a time when solar power is on the verge of costing the same as conventional power, due in large part to the fall in the costs of solar panels and their installation, renewable energy sector representatives have expressed their suspicions that the cuts are an attempt to appease the major energy companies who are losing out greatly to renewables, particularly since the decision last year to phase out nuclear power following the Fukishima disaster in Japan.\"We're taking a part of the market away for large electricity suppliers,\" said Wedepohl. \"But as a country we made a decision after Fukishima to phase out nuclear energy, so we need a lot of power.\"", "tags": ["Solar power", "Germany", "Renewable energy", "Energy", "Environment", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany to cut solar power subsidies"},{"date": "2012-02-27T17:07:27Z", "country": "germany", "content": "What's interesting in looking through newsreel archives is how the editorial policy of the day differs from what is now received history. So, although rock'n'roll arrived in Britain in the winter of 1955-6 with the success of Bill Haley and the Comets' Rock Around the Clock (No 1 in early January), there is comparatively little material relating to rock'n'roll in Path\u00e9's archive from 1956.Nowhere is there anything about Elvis Presley, who had four major hits that year, nor anything about the late-summer furore that accompanied the release of the film Rock Around the Clock \u2013 a heady brew of excited newspaper reports and censorious local councils reacting to a bit of gang warfare and youthful high spirits.Rock'n'roll's impact went way beyond the music, which was exciting enough. It provided a focus for an emerging youth subculture that, once twinned with the commercial success of Elvis, Bill Haley, Gene Vincent et al, became ever more confident, assertive and visible. In Britain, rock'n'roll hooked into the already established teddy boy style, the adherents of which needed no lessons in disorder.The Teds, as the singer and pop historian Ian Whitcomb later remembered, took to the beat's implied violence like ducks to water. On the London underground one day in 1956, he \"saw marching towards me in uneven ranks a mass of costumed youths, flaying their arms out, and reciting their war chant: 'One, two, three o'clock, four o'clock fuck! We're gonna fuck around the clock tonight!' They had found their martial rallying music and it was Bill's.\"However, this late 1956 footage comes not from the UK but from Hamburg, Germany. The opening phrase \"the rock'n'roll craze\" suggests this was already a media trope, and the corny jive terminology (\"They ain't squares\") is Path\u00e9 business as usual, as is the rather stagey nature of what they decide to film.The music is that peculiar big band/jazz/rock hybrid that was popular at that time in Europe, as players struggled to adjust to the demands of the big beat. The first British rock'n'roll bands were formed by jazzers such as Tony Crombie \u2013 as a drummer, he understood how the beat had to come first \u2013 and Don Lang, who fronted the house band on the very first post-rock'n'roll BBC show, Six-Five Special.Today, the footage \u2013 cracker barrel, the same old shots that have since been rolled out again and again \u2013 looks all too familiar. But this was the first time many Path\u00e9 viewers would have seen rock'n'roll. What's routine to us now after years of music documentaries, all building up to an agreed (though often incorrect) history, would have seemed very different in 1956.So you have to use fresh eyes, and try to recapture the feeling. The dancing is actually pretty great: check out the slide at 0:47 and the rigid spasms at 0:49. The crowd shots are fabulous, and that's where you see the excitement: whole hordes of Halbstarken (half-strongs, the German equivalent of Teds) coming alive in front of the camera. You can see the light in their eyes.There's no trouble here, but lots of frantic movement and the sense of something barely contained. Something did change in 1956, and the contrast between the Path\u00e9 voiceover and the actual images is part of the story in itself. Youthful hi-jinks would set the tone for all future rock'n'roll newsreels, but that's only because it really happened. The crowd shot at the end is a portent of future disturbances to come.(If you're interested in music and youth culture from this period, please read Pete Frame's The Restless Generation: How Rock Music Changed the Face of 1950's Britain \u2013 published in 2007 by Rogan House. It's a proper social history, containing many interviews with key musicians, a clear time-line, a sense of the outside world and just the right amount of personal engagement. I can't recommend it highly enough.)", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Elvis Presley", "Music documentary", "Film", "Culture"], "title": "Pop at the pictures: Rock'n'roll hits Germany"},{"date": "2012-02-10T14:15:11Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The Germans want the Greeks out. That is the clear message from the decision by Europe's finance ministers to reject the offer of a fresh package of austerity measures in return for a \u20ac130bn (\u00a3108bn) bailout. Over the past few days it has been painfully evident that Greece's coalition government was having real trouble securing agreement on the deal but it has now been told to cut some more. Berlin wants a full pound of flesh.The Germans would say that the tough approach is justified by Greece's record in making promises and then not keeping them. After the mass downgrade by Standard & Poor's of European sovereigns last month, the remaining AAA-rated countries \u2013 including Germany \u2013 are more determined than ever to show their fiscal mettle. There is visceral loathing of Greece in Germany.Mind you, the Greeks are not too keen on the Germans either. They believe that the draconian terms for financial assistance are condemning the economy to permanent recession, and by killing off growth ensuring that the country's debt problem cannot be cured. Being asked to cut further when you know it is pointless may be one humiliation too far.The question, therefore, is whether the Greeks are being forced into a position where they reject the Carthaginian peace terms presented to them by the rest of Europe and decide that, however tough life is going to be outside the single currency (and make no mistake, it would be), it can be no worse than sticking to the status quo.With one important caveat, this would be a good outcome for Angela Merkel. If Greece decided to quit the euro of its own volition, she could say she had done all she could to keep the single currency intact but, in the end, the Greeks themselves had decided it was time to go.The caveat is, of course, that a Greek departure would be orderly rather than disruptive. If the Germans, and the other hardliners, are trying to force the issue it is because they believe that the actions taken by the European Central Bank over the past couple of months have been sufficient to ensure no contagion effects from Greece to the other debt-stricken eurozone members and, just as importantly, to the fragile European banking system.That is one heck of a gamble, and don't be surprised if it fails. Ever since it became obvious in late 2009 that Greece had a whopping debt problem, the crisis has been handled ham-fistedly. Nothing has been learned along the way, obviously.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "European Union", "Economics", "Greece", "Germany", "European monetary union"], "title": "European debt crisis pitches Germany against Greece"},{"date": "2012-01-25T19:23:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Donald Tusk is the victor on the Vistula, Poland's pre-eminent politician, untroubled by opposition or dissent on the domestic stage. Re-elected late last year with an enhanced majority, Tusk does not even have to worry about the voters.The prime minister is clearly aware of his impregnable position. So sure of himself in fact that he openly humiliates party rivals whom once he might have tolerated. He has also given up his former reticence over attacking the opposition, and now goes at them in a manner that has been described as below the belt.As communism fell apart at the end of the 1980s, Tusk belonged to a group of young intellectuals around the Solidarity union who saw Poland's place in the European union. After 1989, he became one of the leading lights of the liberal movement, which espoused the market economy and declared war on the state bureaucracy. He agitated for an end to prejudice and wrote a book about the good interactions between Germans and Poles in the city of Gdansk, before it became a 20th-century bone of contention.But Tusk was to discover that his vision of modernisation was a bit too radical for the majority. The liberals were politically marginalised and it took him years to find his way back into the political big time. He transformed himself into a conservative and made his peace with the Catholic church, finally having his civil partnership blessed in church. These days, he demands a strong state; his old mantra about slimming it down has long since been forgotten. He also does not let himself get deflected by issues such as the church's place in society or the ban on abortion, because he doesn't want to get bogged down in battles he knows he can't win.Instead, his absolute priority is Poland's deeper integration into Europe. If there is such a thing in Poland as a pro-European, Tusk is it. He stresses at every opportunity that a well-functioning EU lies in Poland's interests. The overwhelming majority of his compatriots see things the same way. They understand that Poland is a big beneficiary of the EU's internal largesse \u2013 Poland is by some distance the biggest net receiver of EU funding. Even provincial folk who once were nervous of the EU have come round. Farmers benefit from strong demand for foodstuffs from other EU countries.But this concept brings its own difficulties. Tusk, who speaks good German, has taken up close collaboration with the Germans, something a large proportion of his countrymen view with some scepticism.He has long been on familiar terms with Angela Merkel. While the first-ever Polish president of the EU in the second half of last year, he supported the position of the German chancellor, who demanded austerity measures from the crisis-hit EU countries. But at the same time, his government tried to build an alliance of EU nations who are net recipients from the EU budget, against net contributor nations.Berlin and Paris were not pleased. Tusk cannot afford a diminution of EU funds for Poland. In his first term in office, Poland's budget deficit more than doubled. He is therefore two things: a European from inner conviction, and out of need.", "tags": ["Poland", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Donald Tusk"], "title": "Donald Tusk \u2013 the view from Germany"},{"date": "2012-03-30T15:36:20Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Does Angela Merkel know more about La France profonde than the rest of us? Or is she simply being her usual shrewd, canny self, a hedger of bets when it comes to Europe's election of the year?Merkel has, of course, already pinned her colours firmly to Sarkozy's mast, controversially offering to campaign for him and then feeling miffed when Sarkozy said thanks but no thanks after going all eurosceptic in the hunt for votes.But Der Spiegel today shows the Merkel camp discreetly putting out feelers to the people around Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the first signs from Berlin of fence-mending with the man who might be president.\"There are no official links, just messages being exchanged between aides,\" Jean-Marc Ayrault, the French Socialists' parliamentary leader who is close to Hollande, is quoted as saying.It looks like the beginnings of a thaw in what for the past few weeks has been a frosty climate. There remain acute policy differences, but the likelihood is strong that, in terms of personal chemistry at least, a President Hollande and Chancellor Merkel will rub along fine.The intensity of the postwar Franco-German relationship tends to prevail despite, rather than because, of who happens to be in office on either side of the Rhine. There is no love lost between Merkel and Sarkozy, the one methodical, the other mercurial. They irritate one another. But they bury their distaste for what they see as the greater European good.That's very much in the tradition of French and German leaders condemned to get along in public while privately often loathing one another.Jacques Chirac and Gerhard Schr\u00f6der had infamous middle-of-the-night screaming matches at EU summits. Fran\u00e7ois Mitterrand (like Margaret Thatcher) tried to sabotage Helmut K\u00f6hl's German reunification.But the deeply embedded alignment of the French and German states rumbles on regardless of who's in power and whether the leaders like one another.That alignment is currently embodied by Merkel's close aide and EU adviser, Nikolaus Meyer-Landrut (uncle of the eponymous Eurovision song winner Lena). He is a serious francophile. As Der Spiegel points out, he is married to a Frenchwoman, completed his academic thesis on France and German unification, and worked as spokesman for Valery Giscard D'Estaing, the former French president when he was heading the doomed attempt to write a constitution for Europe.And if the Merkel-Sarkozy relationship is one of pure expediency, on the surface and at the personal level she might like Hollande much more. In the WikiLeaks files, US diplomats in Berlin characterised Merkel as \"risk-averse\". Aides to Ed Miliband, following a recent lunch with Hollande in London, use exactly the same term to describe the presidential contender.", "tags": ["Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "French elections 2012", "Angela Merkel", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Europe", "World news", "France", "Germany"], "title": "France, Germany and Hollande - the new m\u00e9nage \u00e0 trois?"},{"date": "2012-03-16T20:05:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Everyone agrees: the future of Europe lies in German hands. Berlin is now the de facto capital of the European Union, the place where the crucial decisions are taken. They speak about this shift in Brussels and Paris and certainly in Athens, Rome and Madrid. Everywhere in fact \u2013 except Germany.The Germans don't dispute the facts. They know that they alone can afford to bail out the Greeks and that everyone else in the eurozone, including France, has lost their triple-A rating. They know that it has fallen to Germany to establish the near \u20ac500bn (\u00a3416bn) fund that will deal with future debt crises, the catchily named European Stability Mechanism that starts in July. They know that the new rules that David Cameron \"vetoed\" but did not stop in December will see Germany's 16 fellow eurozone members have their budgets checked \u2013 \"their homework marked\" as one Eurocrat put it \u2013 in Berlin.If fate had played out differently, if Nicolas Sarkozy had emerged as the master of Europe, we would never hear the end of it. If Britain somehow found itself atop the European pile, its prime minister determining the political future of the continent, the British press would revel in the glory. But there is no such triumphalism in Germany. The change in fortune is barely discussed and certainly not celebrated. In the Europe of 2012, Germany stands as a reluctant Goliath.In conversations with politicians, journalists and others this week, no one denied that a shift had taken place \u2013 that the \"Merkozy\" notion of France and Germany in joint charge no longer fits the current situation of solo German strength. But they also agreed that this was a change few in the country wanted to trumpet.Could that be because this new power comes at a heavy price, in the form of the billions Berlin will have to shovel towards ailing Greece? No. Dieter Janecek, a Green rising star who leads the party in Bavaria, told me the Greek bailout still feels \"abstract\" to most Germans. The standard of living remains high, with unemployment falling. Germany came through the post-2008 downturn all but unscathed. This week VW workers each received a \u20ac6,000 bonus, reward for another good year. So Germans are not hurting.Besides, the Greek economy is no bigger than that of Hessen, a middling German province. So long as the contagion doesn't spread to Spain or beyond, bailing out Greece is manageable. And, even if some Germans do resent the Greeks, thanks to the pro-EU consensus that unites the main parties, there are few politicians around to exploit or even articulate that resentment.So it's not the cost that makes Germany keep quiet about its current dominance. The explanation goes deeper. \"It's because of our history,\" says Janecek. Later a leading publisher tells me power makes her fellow Germans \"uneasy\", that the message drummed into them from childhood is that \"a powerful Germany is a dangerous Germany\". When I meet Jochen Arntz, features editor of S\u00fcddeutsche Zeitung, he says: \"We make ourselves smaller than we are. This is a German habit that we've learned over the last 50 or 60 years \u2013 for reasons we all know.\"The war ended closer to 70 years ago, but the shadow it casts is still long and inescapable. Stroll to the Marienplatz in the centre of Munich and you'll find branches of Diesel, Zara and the inevitable Starbucks. But you'll also see a tour guide addressing a group of students from across Europe, holding up an archive photo of a Marienplatz rally in the 1920s. There, circled, is the face of Adolf Hitler. Nearby, a klezmer quartet play the haunting melodies of a European Jewish culture whose extinction was sought by the movement Hitler launched on these very streets.That legacy informs every aspect of German political culture. On Sunday the German parliament will elect Joachim Gauck as the country's new president. A previous incumbent, Horst K\u00f6hler, resigned in 2010 after he had made a statement that in Britain or France would have barely turned a hair: he said that sometimes military force is needed to protect the country's economic interests, defending sea lanes and the like. Meanwhile, a defence minister, who also later resigned, became embattled over his refusal to use the word \"war\" to describe German combat in Afghanistan. \"War is a four-letter word in Germany,\" says Arntz.Both episodes turned on an ingrained post-1945 German wariness of anything that might smack of aggression or a desire to dominate, anything that might smack of the Nazi past. In German politics the key divide over Libya last year was whether the country should cast its UN vote against intervention or merely abstain (it did the latter). The attitude extends even to personal conduct. When the chief executive of Deutsche Bank flashed a V-for-victory sign after a successful court verdict, he was roundly condemned for such a crass display of arrogance, for behaving as what one pundit describes as \"the ugly German\".Some of this is a fear of what the rest of the world will think, but much of it is a German fear of itself \u2013 of what Germany is capable of. This helps account for Merkel's durable popularity\u00a0\u2013 her low-key, cautious style is suitably unthreatening \u2013 and explains why the politician who remarked last year that \"Suddenly Europe is speaking German\" was so hastily shut up.That same fear is also why Germany needs Europe. For them, Europe is not just a matter of trade arrangements, it is also a solution to a deeper problem. As one observer told me, \"a European identity is more comfortable than a German identity\", given the bloody history. Postwar Germany has been Europe's willing Gulliver, happy to be tied down by the bonds of commerce and shared sovereignty, hoping that those EU strictures might save it from its darkest self. That is why there is alarm at signs that both Britain and, in a different way, Turkey are walking away from the European project. Germany needs the European dream to endure.There is a risk that Germany's neighbours, including us, are forgetting this need of the Germans. That amid all the talk of bailouts and fiscal tightening, we forget what the European community was for and the demons that made it necessary. But Germany has not forgotten. Goliath is still scared of his own strength.Twitter: @j_freedland", "tags": ["Germany", "Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Financial crisis", "Euro", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany, Europe's reluctant Goliath, is\u00a0hiding its true strength | Jonathan Freedland"},{"date": "2012-05-23T12:44:32Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Markets bounced on Tuesday as the magic word \"eurobonds\" was heard \u2013 new French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, is keen and Christine Lagarde at the International Monetary Fund has endorsed the principle of more debt-sharing in the eurozone. On Wednesday share prices are down partly because investors have remembered that we've been round the houses on eurobonds several times already during this crisis and the debate always comes back to the same point: Germany is reluctant to underwrite the debts of its neighbours. That reluctance looks entrenched as ever, whatever Hollande and Lagarde might wish.In what circumstances might Germany budge? Gary Silverman of Swordfish Research has the answer: \"Only at one minute to midnight if the alternative was a complete collapse of the system.\"That is surely correct. There was an almighty struggle within the German parliament even to get the current fire-fighting funds, such as the European Stability Mechanism, equipped with commitments. Eurobonds are of another order altogether. In their purest incarnation as a full sharing of debt among eurozone members, they imply a pan-eurozone treasury and something close to full fiscal and political union. Without those ingredients, Germany will continue to regard eurobonds as \"the equivalent of ringing the bell for a happy hour so the inebriated can postpone their hangover indefinitely\", as Reuters quotes one EU official as saying.Of course, Germany is deluding itself it believes a breakup of the eurozone would be a pain-free experience for it. Demand for German-built BMWs and machine-tools would fall dramatically if buyers were obliged to pay in new, soaraway Deutsche marks or a new, slimmer \"northern\" euro. So, maybe, Germany can be bludgeoned into accepting some form of debt-sharing eventually if its neighbours agree to submit to ever-greater fiscal control from the centre. The point, though, is that it is simply not going to happen overnight, even if one could be confident that eurozone voters would approve (a distinctly unsafe assumption in any case). The most that could realistically be achieved quickly is some form of \"eurobond-lite\" \u2013 perhaps a pooling of only the riskiest slices of debt. But the appearance of such an instrument might merely reinforce the idea that real eurobonds remain over the horizon.Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for economic affairs, calls for a \"roadmap\" to set out the steps towards eurobonds.Markets, though, are weary of roadmaps. The Greek election is on 17 June. Investors want to be confident that the contagion from a possible Greek departure from the euro can be contained. The fixation with eurobonds suggests policymakers are not prepared for an exit that could take place before summer is out. No wonder these relief rallies in markets fade in no time at all.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Business", "Euro", "Economics", "European monetary union"], "title": "Germany and its eurobonds resistance"},{"date": "2012-05-23T12:44:32Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Markets bounced on Tuesday as the magic word \"eurobonds\" was heard \u2013 new French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, is keen and Christine Lagarde at the International Monetary Fund has endorsed the principle of more debt-sharing in the eurozone. On Wednesday share prices are down partly because investors have remembered that we've been round the houses on eurobonds several times already during this crisis and the debate always comes back to the same point: Germany is reluctant to underwrite the debts of its neighbours. That reluctance looks entrenched as ever, whatever Hollande and Lagarde might wish.In what circumstances might Germany budge? Gary Silverman of Swordfish Research has the answer: \"Only at one minute to midnight if the alternative was a complete collapse of the system.\"That is surely correct. There was an almighty struggle within the German parliament even to get the current fire-fighting funds, such as the European Stability Mechanism, equipped with commitments. Eurobonds are of another order altogether. In their purest incarnation as a full sharing of debt among eurozone members, they imply a pan-eurozone treasury and something close to full fiscal and political union. Without those ingredients, Germany will continue to regard eurobonds as \"the equivalent of ringing the bell for a happy hour so the inebriated can postpone their hangover indefinitely\", as Reuters quotes one EU official as saying.Of course, Germany is deluding itself it believes a breakup of the eurozone would be a pain-free experience for it. Demand for German-built BMWs and machine-tools would fall dramatically if buyers were obliged to pay in new, soaraway Deutsche marks or a new, slimmer \"northern\" euro. So, maybe, Germany can be bludgeoned into accepting some form of debt-sharing eventually if its neighbours agree to submit to ever-greater fiscal control from the centre. The point, though, is that it is simply not going to happen overnight, even if one could be confident that eurozone voters would approve (a distinctly unsafe assumption in any case). The most that could realistically be achieved quickly is some form of \"eurobond-lite\" \u2013 perhaps a pooling of only the riskiest slices of debt. But the appearance of such an instrument might merely reinforce the idea that real eurobonds remain over the horizon.Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for economic affairs, calls for a \"roadmap\" to set out the steps towards eurobonds.Markets, though, are weary of roadmaps. The Greek election is on 17 June. Investors want to be confident that the contagion from a possible Greek departure from the euro can be contained. The fixation with eurobonds suggests policymakers are not prepared for an exit that could take place before summer is out. No wonder these relief rallies in markets fade in no time at all.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Business", "Euro", "Economics", "European monetary union"], "title": "Germany and its eurobonds resistance"},{"date": "2012-05-14T21:50:52Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Elections in the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia always carry special political resonance for Germany as a whole \u2013 and even for Europe. That's partly because NRW is the most populated of Germany's federal L\u00e4nder, and partly because of the state's economic clout. The area was the home of the German industrial revolution of the 19th century and became the crucible of the postwar German industrial miracle. Even today, it is responsible for a quarter of Germany's GDP.But NRW also resonates because it has sometimes been a political bellwether. Though always more naturally social democratic than many other L\u00e4nder, North-Rhine Westphalia has often signalled the emergence of governing alliances, whose participants have then consolidated their grip in subsequent national elections. This happened with the SDP-Green coalition in the state in 1995, and with the Christian Democrat-FDP coalition that ousted it there in 2005. So it is naturally tempting to see the weekend re-election of North-Rhine Westphalia's current SDP-Green coalition and the eclipse of the CDU, Angela Merkel's party, as a harbinger for next year's federal elections too. Perhaps not even Mrs Merkel is safe from the anti-incumbent, anti-austerity electoral mood across Europe right now.That may be simplistic thinking. The CDU certainly did very badly on Sunday, with its share of the vote slumping eight points to an all-time record low of 26%. The SDP did well, boosting its share by five points to 39%, though that is still a poor result by the historical standards of the party in this state. But local campaign factors were crucial in both cases, and Mrs Merkel remains more popular than other party leaders on the national stage. Other parties of the left, meanwhile, did badly, with the Greens slipping back a little and the Left party falling out of the NRW Landtag altogether. The gainers on Sunday were the free-market FDP, Mrs Merkel's federal coalition partner, which had done abysmally in many recent state elections, and the hard-to-classify Pirate party, which may be on course to break into the Bundestag next year too.Sunday's NRW election is a reminder of a larger fact. Germany now has six main political parties vying for votes, not three as in the 1970s. Single-party victories at state or federal level are now very much the exception. All German elections are about choosing coalitions. Mrs Merkel can take comfort from the rise of the Pirates, which may make leftwing coalition majorities more difficult. But Sunday's good performance in North-Rhine Westphalia by both the SDP and the FDP will revive talk of a possible traffic-light alliance between them and the Greens if Mrs Merkel is judged to have lost her grip on the eurozone crisis in the months ahead.", "tags": ["Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Euro", "Business"], "title": "Germany: watching on the Rhine | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-05-23T12:44:32Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Markets bounced on Tuesday as the magic word \"eurobonds\" was heard \u2013 new French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, is keen and Christine Lagarde at the International Monetary Fund has endorsed the principle of more debt-sharing in the eurozone. On Wednesday share prices are down partly because investors have remembered that we've been round the houses on eurobonds several times already during this crisis and the debate always comes back to the same point: Germany is reluctant to underwrite the debts of its neighbours. That reluctance looks entrenched as ever, whatever Hollande and Lagarde might wish.In what circumstances might Germany budge? Gary Silverman of Swordfish Research has the answer: \"Only at one minute to midnight if the alternative was a complete collapse of the system.\"That is surely correct. There was an almighty struggle within the German parliament even to get the current fire-fighting funds, such as the European Stability Mechanism, equipped with commitments. Eurobonds are of another order altogether. In their purest incarnation as a full sharing of debt among eurozone members, they imply a pan-eurozone treasury and something close to full fiscal and political union. Without those ingredients, Germany will continue to regard eurobonds as \"the equivalent of ringing the bell for a happy hour so the inebriated can postpone their hangover indefinitely\", as Reuters quotes one EU official as saying.Of course, Germany is deluding itself it believes a breakup of the eurozone would be a pain-free experience for it. Demand for German-built BMWs and machine-tools would fall dramatically if buyers were obliged to pay in new, soaraway Deutsche marks or a new, slimmer \"northern\" euro. So, maybe, Germany can be bludgeoned into accepting some form of debt-sharing eventually if its neighbours agree to submit to ever-greater fiscal control from the centre. The point, though, is that it is simply not going to happen overnight, even if one could be confident that eurozone voters would approve (a distinctly unsafe assumption in any case). The most that could realistically be achieved quickly is some form of \"eurobond-lite\" \u2013 perhaps a pooling of only the riskiest slices of debt. But the appearance of such an instrument might merely reinforce the idea that real eurobonds remain over the horizon.Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for economic affairs, calls for a \"roadmap\" to set out the steps towards eurobonds.Markets, though, are weary of roadmaps. The Greek election is on 17 June. Investors want to be confident that the contagion from a possible Greek departure from the euro can be contained. The fixation with eurobonds suggests policymakers are not prepared for an exit that could take place before summer is out. No wonder these relief rallies in markets fade in no time at all.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Business", "Euro", "Economics", "European monetary union"], "title": "Germany and its eurobonds resistance"},{"date": "2012-05-14T21:50:52Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Elections in the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia always carry special political resonance for Germany as a whole \u2013 and even for Europe. That's partly because NRW is the most populated of Germany's federal L\u00e4nder, and partly because of the state's economic clout. The area was the home of the German industrial revolution of the 19th century and became the crucible of the postwar German industrial miracle. Even today, it is responsible for a quarter of Germany's GDP.But NRW also resonates because it has sometimes been a political bellwether. Though always more naturally social democratic than many other L\u00e4nder, North-Rhine Westphalia has often signalled the emergence of governing alliances, whose participants have then consolidated their grip in subsequent national elections. This happened with the SDP-Green coalition in the state in 1995, and with the Christian Democrat-FDP coalition that ousted it there in 2005. So it is naturally tempting to see the weekend re-election of North-Rhine Westphalia's current SDP-Green coalition and the eclipse of the CDU, Angela Merkel's party, as a harbinger for next year's federal elections too. Perhaps not even Mrs Merkel is safe from the anti-incumbent, anti-austerity electoral mood across Europe right now.That may be simplistic thinking. The CDU certainly did very badly on Sunday, with its share of the vote slumping eight points to an all-time record low of 26%. The SDP did well, boosting its share by five points to 39%, though that is still a poor result by the historical standards of the party in this state. But local campaign factors were crucial in both cases, and Mrs Merkel remains more popular than other party leaders on the national stage. Other parties of the left, meanwhile, did badly, with the Greens slipping back a little and the Left party falling out of the NRW Landtag altogether. The gainers on Sunday were the free-market FDP, Mrs Merkel's federal coalition partner, which had done abysmally in many recent state elections, and the hard-to-classify Pirate party, which may be on course to break into the Bundestag next year too.Sunday's NRW election is a reminder of a larger fact. Germany now has six main political parties vying for votes, not three as in the 1970s. Single-party victories at state or federal level are now very much the exception. All German elections are about choosing coalitions. Mrs Merkel can take comfort from the rise of the Pirates, which may make leftwing coalition majorities more difficult. But Sunday's good performance in North-Rhine Westphalia by both the SDP and the FDP will revive talk of a possible traffic-light alliance between them and the Greens if Mrs Merkel is judged to have lost her grip on the eurozone crisis in the months ahead.", "tags": ["Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Euro", "Business"], "title": "Germany: watching on the Rhine | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-05-01T12:38:19Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany's finance minister Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble has re-affirmed his belief that Spain is on the right track. He says the only way to achieve economic growth is to continue with spending cuts that will quickly bring down its budget deficit. He praised a tough new budget that contains \u20ac27bn (\u00a322.1bn) in new taxes and spending cuts as an example of the big bazooka Mariano Rajoy's administration must use to blast away a growing debt mountain.Why is the man who effectively pulls the EU's purse strings wedded to extreme austerity? Does he not care about Spain's 50%-plus youth unemployment, the misery brought by dramatic rises in health charges and the poverty triggered by overnight benefit cuts? And where does growth come from when the consumer is crippled by higher taxes, education charges and cuts in welfare benefits.For one thing, Sch\u00e4uble represents the fears of Germans who worry that inflation is the travelling companion of extra borrowing. Spain must generate its own \"real\" money while it recovers. If it borrows, it cannot be from the private markets. It must come from the European Central Bank or a pool of funds created by Brussels. That means printing more money. The euro will be devalued and hyper-inflation will result.\"The first precondition in order to have sustainable growth everywhere in Europe is fiscal consolidation,\" Sch\u00e4uble said at a press conference with his Spanish counterpart, Luis de Guindos, on Monday. \"If now we talk about growth, it shouldn't be understood as a change of direction. That would be a mistake.\"Sch\u00e4uble has another reason for turning the screw on Madrid and it dates back to the key role he claims for himself in German reunification. Trained as a lawyer, he spent several years before the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 negotiating with the communist leadership in East Germany and Mikhail Gorbachov's administration in Moscow. As interior minister in Helmut Kohl's centre-right government, Sch\u00e4uble agreed on a draft unification treaty with his opposite number in the GDR in the months after the wall came down.As he explains it, he embarked on a campaign of tough love. This was enshrined in the one-for-one exchange rate with the east.Few East German businesses could compete with their better equipped rivals in the west after an appreciation of their currency of something like three times.Despite fund transfers that amount to \u20ac1.3tn over 20 years that have upgraded the infrastructure in Saxony and western Pomerania, the currency debacle left the local economy in a sorry state.Per capita economic output in the east is only 71% of the western level, with much of that attributable to the public sector. The east has slower growth, a population that is declining at a faster rate and more people on welfare.According to Der Spiegel, of Germany's 100 largest industrial companies and 100 largest service providers, not one has its headquarters in eastern Germany.The lesson you would expect Sch\u00e4uble to draw from this would be that Spain cannot cope with tough love, except as a welfare dependent slave of Berlin, unable to devalue or leave the single currency.East Germany has its bright spots, but without huge contributions from the Berlin exchequer it would be in a parlous state and even then the outcome is not great. Locals go along with it because in the end they are German.Replicating the same policy for Spain and the rest of Club Med is not going to last. While the Spanish may be European, they are certainly not German.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Business", "World news", "European Union", "Economics", "Euro", "Europe", "Spain", "Austerity"], "title": "Germany praises pain in Spain"},{"date": "2012-05-23T12:44:32Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Markets bounced on Tuesday as the magic word \"eurobonds\" was heard \u2013 new French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, is keen and Christine Lagarde at the International Monetary Fund has endorsed the principle of more debt-sharing in the eurozone. On Wednesday share prices are down partly because investors have remembered that we've been round the houses on eurobonds several times already during this crisis and the debate always comes back to the same point: Germany is reluctant to underwrite the debts of its neighbours. That reluctance looks entrenched as ever, whatever Hollande and Lagarde might wish.In what circumstances might Germany budge? Gary Silverman of Swordfish Research has the answer: \"Only at one minute to midnight if the alternative was a complete collapse of the system.\"That is surely correct. There was an almighty struggle within the German parliament even to get the current fire-fighting funds, such as the European Stability Mechanism, equipped with commitments. Eurobonds are of another order altogether. In their purest incarnation as a full sharing of debt among eurozone members, they imply a pan-eurozone treasury and something close to full fiscal and political union. Without those ingredients, Germany will continue to regard eurobonds as \"the equivalent of ringing the bell for a happy hour so the inebriated can postpone their hangover indefinitely\", as Reuters quotes one EU official as saying.Of course, Germany is deluding itself it believes a breakup of the eurozone would be a pain-free experience for it. Demand for German-built BMWs and machine-tools would fall dramatically if buyers were obliged to pay in new, soaraway Deutsche marks or a new, slimmer \"northern\" euro. So, maybe, Germany can be bludgeoned into accepting some form of debt-sharing eventually if its neighbours agree to submit to ever-greater fiscal control from the centre. The point, though, is that it is simply not going to happen overnight, even if one could be confident that eurozone voters would approve (a distinctly unsafe assumption in any case). The most that could realistically be achieved quickly is some form of \"eurobond-lite\" \u2013 perhaps a pooling of only the riskiest slices of debt. But the appearance of such an instrument might merely reinforce the idea that real eurobonds remain over the horizon.Olli Rehn, the European commissioner for economic affairs, calls for a \"roadmap\" to set out the steps towards eurobonds.Markets, though, are weary of roadmaps. The Greek election is on 17 June. Investors want to be confident that the contagion from a possible Greek departure from the euro can be contained. The fixation with eurobonds suggests policymakers are not prepared for an exit that could take place before summer is out. No wonder these relief rallies in markets fade in no time at all.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Business", "Euro", "Economics", "European monetary union"], "title": "Germany and its eurobonds resistance"},{"date": "2012-05-14T21:50:52Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Elections in the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia always carry special political resonance for Germany as a whole \u2013 and even for Europe. That's partly because NRW is the most populated of Germany's federal L\u00e4nder, and partly because of the state's economic clout. The area was the home of the German industrial revolution of the 19th century and became the crucible of the postwar German industrial miracle. Even today, it is responsible for a quarter of Germany's GDP.But NRW also resonates because it has sometimes been a political bellwether. Though always more naturally social democratic than many other L\u00e4nder, North-Rhine Westphalia has often signalled the emergence of governing alliances, whose participants have then consolidated their grip in subsequent national elections. This happened with the SDP-Green coalition in the state in 1995, and with the Christian Democrat-FDP coalition that ousted it there in 2005. So it is naturally tempting to see the weekend re-election of North-Rhine Westphalia's current SDP-Green coalition and the eclipse of the CDU, Angela Merkel's party, as a harbinger for next year's federal elections too. Perhaps not even Mrs Merkel is safe from the anti-incumbent, anti-austerity electoral mood across Europe right now.That may be simplistic thinking. The CDU certainly did very badly on Sunday, with its share of the vote slumping eight points to an all-time record low of 26%. The SDP did well, boosting its share by five points to 39%, though that is still a poor result by the historical standards of the party in this state. But local campaign factors were crucial in both cases, and Mrs Merkel remains more popular than other party leaders on the national stage. Other parties of the left, meanwhile, did badly, with the Greens slipping back a little and the Left party falling out of the NRW Landtag altogether. The gainers on Sunday were the free-market FDP, Mrs Merkel's federal coalition partner, which had done abysmally in many recent state elections, and the hard-to-classify Pirate party, which may be on course to break into the Bundestag next year too.Sunday's NRW election is a reminder of a larger fact. Germany now has six main political parties vying for votes, not three as in the 1970s. Single-party victories at state or federal level are now very much the exception. All German elections are about choosing coalitions. Mrs Merkel can take comfort from the rise of the Pirates, which may make leftwing coalition majorities more difficult. But Sunday's good performance in North-Rhine Westphalia by both the SDP and the FDP will revive talk of a possible traffic-light alliance between them and the Greens if Mrs Merkel is judged to have lost her grip on the eurozone crisis in the months ahead.", "tags": ["Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Euro", "Business"], "title": "Germany: watching on the Rhine | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-05-01T12:38:19Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany's finance minister Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble has re-affirmed his belief that Spain is on the right track. He says the only way to achieve economic growth is to continue with spending cuts that will quickly bring down its budget deficit. He praised a tough new budget that contains \u20ac27bn (\u00a322.1bn) in new taxes and spending cuts as an example of the big bazooka Mariano Rajoy's administration must use to blast away a growing debt mountain.Why is the man who effectively pulls the EU's purse strings wedded to extreme austerity? Does he not care about Spain's 50%-plus youth unemployment, the misery brought by dramatic rises in health charges and the poverty triggered by overnight benefit cuts? And where does growth come from when the consumer is crippled by higher taxes, education charges and cuts in welfare benefits.For one thing, Sch\u00e4uble represents the fears of Germans who worry that inflation is the travelling companion of extra borrowing. Spain must generate its own \"real\" money while it recovers. If it borrows, it cannot be from the private markets. It must come from the European Central Bank or a pool of funds created by Brussels. That means printing more money. The euro will be devalued and hyper-inflation will result.\"The first precondition in order to have sustainable growth everywhere in Europe is fiscal consolidation,\" Sch\u00e4uble said at a press conference with his Spanish counterpart, Luis de Guindos, on Monday. \"If now we talk about growth, it shouldn't be understood as a change of direction. That would be a mistake.\"Sch\u00e4uble has another reason for turning the screw on Madrid and it dates back to the key role he claims for himself in German reunification. Trained as a lawyer, he spent several years before the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 negotiating with the communist leadership in East Germany and Mikhail Gorbachov's administration in Moscow. As interior minister in Helmut Kohl's centre-right government, Sch\u00e4uble agreed on a draft unification treaty with his opposite number in the GDR in the months after the wall came down.As he explains it, he embarked on a campaign of tough love. This was enshrined in the one-for-one exchange rate with the east.Few East German businesses could compete with their better equipped rivals in the west after an appreciation of their currency of something like three times.Despite fund transfers that amount to \u20ac1.3tn over 20 years that have upgraded the infrastructure in Saxony and western Pomerania, the currency debacle left the local economy in a sorry state.Per capita economic output in the east is only 71% of the western level, with much of that attributable to the public sector. The east has slower growth, a population that is declining at a faster rate and more people on welfare.According to Der Spiegel, of Germany's 100 largest industrial companies and 100 largest service providers, not one has its headquarters in eastern Germany.The lesson you would expect Sch\u00e4uble to draw from this would be that Spain cannot cope with tough love, except as a welfare dependent slave of Berlin, unable to devalue or leave the single currency.East Germany has its bright spots, but without huge contributions from the Berlin exchequer it would be in a parlous state and even then the outcome is not great. Locals go along with it because in the end they are German.Replicating the same policy for Spain and the rest of Club Med is not going to last. While the Spanish may be European, they are certainly not German.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Business", "World news", "European Union", "Economics", "Euro", "Europe", "Spain", "Austerity"], "title": "Germany praises pain in Spain"},{"date": "2012-06-27T23:06:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has flatly ruled out any pooling of eurozone debt in response to the single currency crisis, seeming to set the scene for clashes at an EU summit that looks unlikely to take any big decisions to quickly stabilise the euro.The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, sharply criticised a seven-page blueprint drawn up by four senior EU leaders on opening the way to a eurozone political federation.She made it clear she would not yield to pressure to move towards the common issuance of eurozone debt in the form of eurobonds, to lower the cost of borrowing for vulnerable countries such as Spain and Italy.Merkel's tough stance appeared to open up the prospects of a clash with Mario Monti, the Italian prime minister, who is trying to restructure Italy's creaking economy but is impotent in the face of the financial markets raising the price he pays to borrow. Italy was forced to offer a yield of 2.96% to sell six-month bills, up from 2.1% a month ago. Its benchmark 10-year yield was up slightly at 6.22% and faces an important test with an auction of \u20ac5.5bn (\u00a34.4bn) of five and 10-year bonds.There were also no signs of any concessions from Merkel towards President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande of France, who will use the summit to claim he has forced the EU or the eurozone to adopt policies shifting the emphasis from austerity and spending cuts to a growth and jobs agenda.The summit is likely to agree a \"growth pact,\" nominally dedicating \u20ac130bn to foster job creation and infrastructure projects. But the scheme is essentially an exercise in repackaging already agreed measures or re-directing already committed EU funds.Merkel told parliament in Berlin, before going off to Paris to see Hollande, that she would not allow \"Germany to be overstretched\" by bankrolling borrowing to save the euro. Unusually, she predicted \"controversial discussions\" at the two-day summit, signalling that she was ready for a row.\"I fear that at [the summit] there will again be far too much talk about all possible ideas for common liability and far too little about better controls and structural measures,\" she said. Eurobonds, eurobills, or a debt redemption fund \u2013 all ways of pooling eurozone debt liability \u2013 were illegal and counter-productive, Merkel said.On Tuesday, Herman Van Rompuy, the president of the European Council who chairs the summits, announced an ambitious plan to build a eurozone political union within a decade, entailing the surrender of national powers to Brussels.Merkel attacked the plan as again being too keen on pooling liability with not enough emphasis on fiscal discipline.Senior French officials said, by contrast, that Hollande was \"at ease\" with the blueprint, which was \"balanced.\"\"The Germans say it is a French report. The French say it is a German report,\" said a senior EU official involved in the summit preparations. \"The truth is it's somewhere in-between.\"EU and French officials agreed that the two-day summit is the most important in years, probably since the 1990s, but that it could end in a stalemate that rattles the markets and increases the pressure on the euro from Monday. There was talk in Brussels of coming up with short-term measures to relieve the market pressure on Spain and Italy.The summit is likely to take the first steps towards establishing an EU or eurozone banking union, with the aim of setting up common systems for winding up bad banks, recapitalising them, and standing behind savers' deposits under the overall authority of the European Central Bank in Frankfurt.Britain wants nothing to do with it and there are certain to be conflicts in the months ahead as the Cameron government seeks to quarantine the City from the new regime's remit.But the banking union proposal is hugely complex. The devil is in the detail. While many of the governments say they support it, they will be at odds over its scope and powers.A third of EU countries also look likely to press ahead with moves to launch a levy on financial transactions or Tobin tax. The tax is strongly supported by Hollande and by Austria. Merkel said that the Germans had signed up nine countries, the number required for so-called \"enhanced cooperation\" policies under the Lisbon Treaty.Critics say introducing the tax in only nine countries will distort the market and trigger an exodus of financial institutions to other places. Adherents say you have to start somewhere and more will join later.Britain is prepared to provide more than \u00a31bn to help recapitalise the European Investment bank to stimulate growth in the EU. The summit in Brussels will examine proposals to increase the \"paid-in capital\" of the EIB, which underwrites investment projects, by \u00a38bn. Britain has a 16% shareholding in the EIB which means it would provide \u00a31.28bn.The eurosceptic Open Europe thinktank questioned the move. Mats Persson, the director, said: \"In principle this could be a positive idea for Europe if investment is well targeted. But in practice it's not clear whether the additional EIB cash will actually do anything to stem the crisis, in particular since the ECB just flushed Europe with \u20ac1tn worth of credit without achieving a major boost to investment. Unfortunately this feels a bit like spending for the sake of spending \u2013 which is exactly what the coalition opposes at home.\"Treasury sources said Britain's contribution would amount to a contingent liability. This would affect Britain's debt but not the deficit.Sources said that strengthening the EIB would benefit the UK because many of its projects are in Britain. They said supporting the EIB, which underwrites risk, is consistent with the approach adopted by the government and the Bank of England in Britain.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European banks", "Europe", "European monetary union", "Business", "World news", "Angela Merkel", "Banking", "European Union", "France", "Germany", "Spain", "Mario Monti", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande"], "title": "Germany rules out pooling of eurozone debt"},{"date": "2012-09-19T14:39:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "While snap, poker and bridge are the card games favoured in the UK, Germans prefer the trick-taking \"brain game\" skat. Played for more than 200 years, this 32-card game got its first official mention in 1813 and is now a national institution.\"It is a game that everyone can play,\" said the president of the German Skat Association, Peter Tripmaker. \"There is a real cross-section of society, from those collecting Hartz IV [jobseekers' allowance] to the professor.\"Skat is a game for three players, using cards from a traditional 52-card pack with cards below seven removed.A dealer and two opposing players are each dealt 10 cards, with two skat cards left to the side, from which dealers can exchange their two worst as well as having the choice of trump suit. Each card is given a value and to win the dealer must make 61 points or the opposing players 60.The history of this popular pastime dates to the early 1800s when Napoleonic soldiers and Saxony students created it as a common-ground game between them in the German town of Altenburg.While there are about 26,000 members of the national skat association, about a quarter of Germany's population plays with friends and family.But in recent years skat has faced an existential crisis, with clubs struggling to attract the young.\"We are fighting to get young people playing skat and come into clubs,\" said Tripmaker. \"It is the young people who are mostly playing on computers, but we are starting in the early years. We have children of eight playing cards already and if you see this, you get tears in your eyes seeing how excited they are about playing the game.\"Still, over the years, the game has been exported by travelling Germans to the United States, Canada and Thailand, and players hope it will keep going strong.Much like tightrope-walking, slacklining involves balancing along a line between two fixed points. The difference, however, is that instead of a tight steel rope to walk along, there is a loosely hung strip of nylon webbing \u2013 creating a further challenge as the webbing swings underfoot.\"It's completely different from other sports,\" said Jonas Weidemann, who runs SlacklinerBerlin.de, a project started in 2009 with the idea of bringing the sport to Germany.\"You are always with other people in a community and there is the really important mixture of being calm with inner focus while exhausting your muscles.\"Slacklining is thought to have originated during the 1970s in Yosemite national park, California, when climbers spent free days balancing across ropes and lines, according to the Slackliner Berlin website.However, the sport has only become popular in Germany in the past few years, with fans taking to parks to hang lines between trees, or \u2013 more daringly \u2013 walking between high towers and ledges on some of Berlin's abandoned buildings.While there has been controversy over damage the sport could do to trees, some groups have been trying to curb the harm by creating dedicated slackline areas with material used to protect tree trunks.\"It's becoming more popular and more common, and the more people try it the more they want to do it again,\" said Weidemann.This is another old tradition that has acquired fresh popularity, with more than 4 million people now \"digging for Germany\". The plots of lands with neat little cabins perched on the lawn, known as Schreberg\u00e4rten, are impossible to miss if you travel around Germany by train.\"There are people who search for a piece of greenery outside their house's front door, which is within walking distance and which they can go to after work or in the summer,\" said Norbert Franke, president of the German Association of Garden Friends.The first German garden allotments can be traced back to 1814, when a pastor leased out 24 garden plots. In the 1860s the gardens came to be named after Daniel Gottlob Moritz Schreber, a doctor from Leipzig, who encouraged children's play outside. Today more than 1m \u00a0allotments are leased out by various societies across Germany. \"We have a tiny, postage-stamp-size terrace and it's nice to have a few plants, but myself and my wife really wanted somewhere we could really do some gardening,\" said Thomas Marzahl, a translator living in Berlin.\"We now have a Schrebergarten and it's somewhere we can hang out with friends, grow some nice flowers and some fruit trees.\"", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Allotments", "Berlin holidays"], "title": "Germany: games and pastimes"},{"date": "2012-12-07T12:58:53Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany, Europe's economic powerhouse, is rapidly losing steam, with the country's central bank slashing its growth forecasts for this year and next.The Bundesbank lowered its growth forecast for this year to 0.7% from the 1% it predicted in June. It cut its 2013 prediction even more sharply, to 0.4% from 1.6%, but is expecting growth to bounce back to 1.9% in 2014.The news shocked markets on Friday morning. \"Investors have become accustomed to continuing woes in the eurozone periphery but Germany, Europe's largest economy, is considered the backbone of the shared currency zone and was previously viewed as the beacon of stability,\" said Lee McDarby of Investec.The eurozone remains mired in recession and the Bundesbank's revisions came a day after the European Central Bank said it expected that to continue next year, cutting its 2013 forecast for the 17-nation bloc from 0.5% growth to a 0.3% decline.Germany's export-driven economy has been slowing amid falling orders from the eurozone. New figures showed on Friday that industrial production in Germany crashed by 2.6% in October. This meant that a contraction of its economy in the fourth quarter had become almost inevitable, economists said.\"Even a technical recession of two consecutive quarters cannot be excluded entirely, particularly if the fiscal cliff negotiations in the US disappoint and hamper the US recovery,\" said ING economist Carsten Brzeski. \"Looking beyond the next one or two quarters, however, the German economy should be able to pick up speed relatively quickly.\"", "tags": ["European monetary union", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "Euro", "European Central Bank", "Business", "Global recession", "Global economy"], "title": "Germany slashes growth forecasts"},{"date": "2013-03-03T18:55:26Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany conducted safety tests on milk over the weekend, after it emerged that thousands of farms had given animals feed contaminated with high levels of the dangerous carcinogen aflatoxin B1.Thousands of tonnes of poisonous animal feed was delivered to 4,467 farms in Lower Saxony alone, including 968 dairy farms, the state's agricultural ministry confirmed on Sunday.Aflatoxin B1, one of the strongest known naturally-occuring carcinogens, is produced by the Aspergillus mould, which can develop on grains when left in warm and damp conditions. German authorities banned milk deliveries from hundreds of dairy farms on Friday, fearing that milk from cows fed up to 30 times the accepted levels of aflatoxin could also contain the cancer-causing substance.\"Aflatoxins are especially dangerous in milk,\" said Udo Paschedag, state secretary of the ministry, adding that they did not pose a problem in meat or eggs.The ministry said it believed there was no risk to consumers after initial test results on Saturday showed milk from 79 of the affected dairy farms contained only low traces of the carcinogen. Tests are now being carried out on the remaining farms.The ministry said it had tracked the breach to a shipment of 40,000 tonnes of maize from Serbia, 10,000 tonnes of which was processed into animal feed for chickens, cows and pigs.While authorities say meat and eggs from animals which have ingested the cancer-causing substance are not dangerous to human health, they have yet to confirm whether offal from the affected animals is safe to eat.Anger among consumers grew as the scale of the breach became known, the third food scandal to hit Germany in under a month. As well as horse meat being passed off as beef, 200 German egg farmers are currently under investigation for allegedly falsely labelling battery chickens' eggs as organic. ", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany tests milk in carcinogen scare"},{"date": "2013-09-22T22:18:45Z", "country": "germany", "content": " 11.18pm BST OK, geschwind zu Pferde, or in my case, a train.What we know: Merkel wins, as predicted, everyone else has a rather poor night, umlauts take ages to cut and paste into liveblogs.What we don't know: who she governs with, how Europe reacts, whether Greece gets its third bailout, whether Cameron has a partner for shaking down Brussels, and plenty more besides. But's that all business for another day.For now it's Feierabend. Tsch\u00fcss 11.13pm BST A couple of last bits of telling data to leave you with...First of all, our own Wolfgang Blau points to some crunchy data from ARD showing how voters migrated from one party to another. I think the jaw-dropping number is the 2.2m FDP voters who drifted into the CDU camp.The result of that, and other psephological shifts (i love that word, though it's tricky to type when you've been staring at a screen for 10 hours) is that the electoral map of Germany now looks something like this, where black = Merkel 11.06pm BST  10.43pm BST Not all over for FDP - creeping closer to five percent. And so the best joke of the night might end up looking rather feeble. (What's the difference between the FDP and a Smart Car? The Smart car has two seats).Also, outright majority looking less likely for Merkel now, but I'm not sure how relevant that whole 'majority' thing was. Only about 55 constituencies to go now. To keep us going, let's have another FDP joke, this time from @chrisjcottrellUpdated at 10.54pm BST 9.57pm BST I want at this point to go off on a tangent, so if you're not up for that, go and do the washing up or something. Oh, and if you could make me a cup of tea and email it over, that would be nice.This graphic tells a pretty interesting story. Yes, it's in German, but bear with me. What it shows is that Germany is BY FAR China's largest trading partner in Europe. China is now almost as big a market for German exports as the UK. And it's catching up fast. And when it comes to imports, China is only just behind France as Germany's biggest purveyor of goods and services.What this suggests is that in her third term, Merkel will have one eye on Brussels but the other on Beijing. I'm not sure if this is even physically possible from Berlin without getting an excruciating headache. 9.49pm BST Let's have another skip through the party HQs, test the mood.Philip Oltermann is clearly having far too good a time with the victors, and like me has been unable to avoiding lapse into footballing analogy. Well, at least we know Angie is a fan.When Merkel took the stage at the CDU headquarters for one final time, shecould barely get a word in for the euphoric masses clad in orange \"Angie\" T-shirts shouting her name (\"Ruhig bleiben, Kanzlerin waehlen\", a take on the Keep Calm and Carry On slogan, was another favourite). As her ministers and advisers around her swayed and clapped in tune to the music, Merkel looked remarkably reserved. The song pumping out of the speakers was a schlager called \"Schachmatt\" (\"Check mate\"), but you could sense that for Merkel the game of coalition chess was just beginning.\"Tonight we can celebrate, but tomorrow we have to go back to work\", she said, but her followers didn't have any of it. \"The day after tomorrow\", they hollered back. And then: \"Oh, wie ist das sch\u00f6n\", as if they had just watched their football team win the Champions League \u2013 which in a way, they almost had. Once the music stopped, Merkel was the first to leave the stage and head straight for the exit.\"Meanwhile, over at the Left party's thing, several cadres have a good look round to spot the missing discoIndebted to The Local and its own blogging antics this evening for a glimpse inside the Green party do. Not much to celebrate here, I think, though they could still end up with around 60 MPs, which is 59 more than we have in the UK. 9.12pm BST One thing is for certain: Merkel is promising to stay on for another full four years. That will take her past Margaret Thatcher as Europe's longest serving female elected head of government. Last week, we drew up some bald comparisons, slapped them on a couple of cards, and got lots of stick from readers for it. Undaunted, we hereby re-present the item and the link to the full page, certain in the knowledge that much will be written in the coming days about Merkel and her amazing political longevity. 8.46pm BST Getting plenty of analysis now as to what this all means. First up, Stefan Kornelius, Merkel biographer, S\u00fcddeutsche foreign editor and a man who once bought me a large beer in a Munich Kneipe, He just wrote me this:Merkel is basking in triumph. What a day for her. This usually distant and unemotional women is grinning and cheering all evening. Finally she gets the reward she was denied for two consecutive elections. But she knows the traps: Sitting with her challengers and all the other party chairs in the traditional TV roundup, she is not giving a hint about her next steps. Certainly her party is that close to an overall majority - the first time since Adenauer in 1957. But waking up tomorrow morning with all votes counted she might need to find a coalition partner anyway.Even if she could govern on her own, she will need the Social Democrats' vote in the second chamber, the Bundesrat, for major domestic legislation. Also, the most pressing issues in Europe require a larger consent in the Bundestag. Merkel's big goal will be a major structural reform within the EU. To achieve this she might even be forced to change the German constitution and put it to a vote to the German people.Experience tells Merkel that political success is always followed by disappointment. She doesn't believe in a linear way to triumph. So her joyful mood will quickly fade and the old, cautious Merkel will return. Don't expect too much change. Merkel might win big, but that won't change her character.Next we have Mats Persson, director of the Open Europe think tank:Whatever happens this is a massive public endorsement for Angela Merkel, who has established herself as the most powerful female politician ever. Part of her resounding victory must also be seen as a validation of her eurozone policy \u2013 expect more of the same.Whether or not the anti-euro Afd makes it into parliament, its strong showing means it could become a force to be reckoned with in the European elections.No matter the coalition outcome, there will have to be a lot of soul searching by the FDP and centre-left. In the end the leadership of these parties could well end up paying the price for their poor showing.Also more from our own Ian Traynor, whose full piece is here:There will be little quick change in her policies on Europe, unless there are major developments in a big ailing country such as Italy or France.She is under no pressure at home to change in any case. The main opposition Social Democrats and Greens might bicker and attack her policies, but where and when it matters, in the chamber of the Bundestag in Berlin, they have always voted with her on the key decisions. 7.40pm BST While we wait for dust to settle, it's time for a bite to eat. I'm indebted to Nils for sending me a picture of his electoral dinner, and would encourage others to do likewise to @markriceoxley69. I may post more in the space, depending on how mouthwatering they are.Meanwhile, Philip Oltermann is at CDU HQ. He says that if this election was just about the food, then the CDU would once again win hands down.There's rather a nice goulash here, while the food at the AfD HQ ran out within two minutesThough judging from the pix he's sent through, I'm not so sure that this can be called a culinary triumph for Merkel. An astronomical victory, but not necessarily a gastronomical one.And here, just for the record is my own meal, which I'm sort of live-scoffing while I do thisUpdated at 10.01pm BST 7.35pm BST So here's what we've got so farAngela MerkelThis is a super result. Together, we will do all we can to make the next four years successful ones for Germany.We are not obligated as conservatives to campaign for the FDP.The party leadership will discuss everything when we have a final result but we can already celebrate tonight.Asked if she would serve a full third term:Yes, I am completely certain about that.Peer Steinbr\u00fcck, SPD candidateWe did not achieve the result we wanted.Philipp R\u00f6sler, FDP chairThe bitterest, saddest hour in the history of the FDP.Updated at 9.21pm BST 7.19pm BST In Athens, Helena Smith says the prospect of a grand coalition (CDU+SPD=GOVT) has met with a certain amount of relief, und zwar:Tassos Telloglou, veteran interpreter of German affairs:\u201cThe most likely scenario, that of a grand coalition between the CDU and the Social Democrats, is also the most positive scenario for Greece. The SDP has put much more emphasis on the policies of growth.\u201dJorgo Chatzimarkakis, Greek-German MEP\u201cThere are two pieces of good news from this election for Greece. The first is that it looks very likely that the alliance with the FDP won\u2019t continue. The other is that the SDP, which has the best views regarding policies of austerity and has even talked of a Marshall plan will likely join forces to form a government and if that is the case I would not expect austerity to continue as we have seen it. A grand coalition would be good for Greece. The bad news is that the anti-Greek Alternative fuer Deutschland party may enter parliament and if that is the case it will add to the pressure on Merkel to take a tough stance on the question of helping out the south and especially Greece.\u201d 6.59pm BST Here's some lively footage of scenes inside the various campaign HQs. The voiceover is in German, but then I think that's allowable as this is after all a German election. You get the idea: CDU chanting like a football crowd, SPD scratching heads, FDP wondering where it all went wrong.Updated at 7.21pm BST 6.46pm BST France eagerly wanted to be the first to congratulate Merkel on her victory, et voil\u00e0...Angelique Chrisafis in Paris writes:Francois Hollande, whose advisors had hinted he was likely to be the first world leader to congratulate Angela Merkel, has called her and invited her to Paris for talks as soon as the new government is formed. The Elysee said the two leaders vowed to work \u201ctirelessly\u201d to pursue \u201cclose cooperation\u201d on the \u201cnew challenges for European construction.\u201dThe political relationship between the Socialist Hollande and conservative Merkel has often been fraught \u2013 far from the \u201cMerkozy\u201d common front of Nicolas Sarkozy's presidency. But while Merkel actively pledged her support for the right-wing Sarkozy in the 2012 French presidential campaign - which Hollande went on to win - Hollande pointedly did not campaign for the centre left's Peer Steinbr\u00fcck of the SPD during this election.French media said Merkel's solid victory confirmed her status as the leader of Europe. French Socialists will be eagerly watching the final results to see whether Merkel has won an absolute majority or whether she will need a coalition and what form that might take. Before the result, French Socialists had hoped that if the centre-left took part in a German coalition, it could mark a move closer to Hollande's positions on Europe and social policies versus one-size-fits-all austerity.\u00a0I don't know if the response from Spanish or Greek socialists will be quite as effusive... watch this spaceFirst reaction coming through from Greece's main opposition radical left Syriza party, says Helena SmithI just caught Panos Skourletis, Syriza's spokesman, going into a television studio. Rather breathlessly he told me that Angela Merkel's strong performance diluted the prospect of a grand coalition being \"particularly positive\" for Greece. \"The only thing that will make a difference is if there is a different government in Greece and by that I mean a Syriza government,\" he said. Syriza, now leading in polls, says Greece will only revive economically is if its debt load is forgiven and austerity is replaced by growth enhancing measures. Tellingly, Syriza's leader, Alexis Tsipras, was in Germany throwing his weight behind the lelftist Die Linke party in the run-up to today's election, to drive that message home. Updated at 7.50pm BST 6.32pm BST Have just got off the phone with Frauke Petry, one of the leaders of the Alternative fur Deutschland (excuse missing umlaut - no time for accents now). Again I recorded our conversation, but because I am a technoramus, my shrewd incisive questions did not record. So here's what was said:Me: What's the mood like?FP: It's very exciting and we're still waiting to see if we get above the 5% markMe: You've only been around six months and have a shoestring budget, so how have you managed to make the breakthrough? FP: We have been out on the streets talking about the topics that many Germans regard as important topics. And the big parties have tried to exclude these issues from the election campaign, and so they have pushed people towards the AfD.Me: What's your big idea?FP: We have to rethink the euro crisis. We have to allow weaker countries like Greece and Spain and Portugal to leave the euro and rebuild their economies and then maybe return. We don't think we should pay for debts that have been accumulated by these countriesMe: I don't want to take the wind out of your sails or anything, but even if you do get into parliament, you won't be numerous enough to affect policy.FP: We are not so sure. We think we will be able to push CDU and SPD towards new positions. Many members of the CDU quite agree with us but haven't said so in publicMe: What's happening now?FP: Of course people hope for 5pc and still wait for the 5pc to appear on the screens, but are still very proud of what we have achieved over the past six months 6.22pm BST As the night proceeds and the votes are counted, those percentages above will nibble around a bit. And the CDU projection is going up as we speak, such that some are beginning to wonder about whether Merkel could secure an absolute majority.If she did, it would be the first in Germany since the days of Konrad Adenauer. And if you've no idea who he is, read in hereFor now, all that Merkel is saying is \"It's a super result\", and that she'll do everything to make the next four years successful for Germany. But what about Europe? 5.58pm BST Ian Traynor, our Europe editor, offers the following view of Merkel's win:More than three years into the European Union\u2019s worst ever nightmare, Merkel, uniquely in the Eurozone, has been hugely rewarded for her handling of the currency and sovereign debt crisis. Everywhere else voters have punished governments.Her victory demonstrates the gulf between Germany and the rest of the EU and the Eurozone, although it is not clear what impact her third term will have on the direction of the crisis.Her victory, with an increased share of the vote for her Christian democrats than in 2009 no less, will vindicate her confidence in the way she has dealt with the euro challenge. She will be encouraged to carry on as before, not least since she is confident that the heat is going out of the crisis and that her emphasis on savings, cuts, and structural reforms in the stricken eurozone economies is beginning to pay off. 5.52pm BST I've just got off the phone to Anna-Catherina Muller, a rank and file FDPer, who describes the fear and loathing at the Berlin HQ, and tries to figure out what went wrong. For some reason my questions don't come through, but they were pretty poor anyway, so don't worry about that 5.28pm BST Let's get some rapid-fire reaction to those exit pollsHere's AP scooping up the initial response from the big guns:Volker Kauder, the leader of her party's parliamentary group:We have a clear mandate from voters to form a government. (The outcome shows that) voters want Angela Merkel to remain chancellor.Senior Social Democrat Thomas Oppermann:The ball is in Merkel's court.Updated at 5.48pm BST 5.03pm BST Right then, according to ARD:CDU 42.0 %; SPD 26.0%; FDP 4.7%; Greens 8.0%; Linke 8.5%; AfD 4.9%, Piraten 2.5%Kate Connolly's snap judgement on that:A fantastic result for the CDU, but the SPD's second worst result of all time. We could end up with just four parties in the Bundestag, making coalition building interesting. At the moment it looks like it has to be a grand coalition.ARD TV showing grim-faced FDP cadres: could this be the first time they fall out of national parliament in 60 years? AfD by contrast overjoyed, some brandishing rather withered looking sunflowers. Not sure of significance of that...Updated at 5.08pm BST 4.32pm BST Now before we get to results, here's a quick briefing on how it all works. Kate Connolly says the rules of voting in Germany are as complicated as the rules of cricket. While I find myself wondering what the psephological equivalent of LBW is, Kate saysGermany's system is best described as a combination of the first past the post system (as used in Britain) and the proportional representation model. Voters are given two choices. On the left (black) side of their ballot paper they vote for an individual from their local constituency (there are 299 districts in Germany). On the right (blue) side, they vote for a party (34 are running this year). Added up, the second votes allow the parties to fill up a further 299 seats from the lists. Each of the parties receives a share of the 598 Bundestag seats proportionate to the number of second votes it has secured.Sometimes, a party wins more seats through the direct vote than it would get under the second vote. In the past, it has been allowed to keep these \"overhang\" seats. But now, under new rules ALL parties are rewarded if the direct votes for any party exceed their second vote quotient so that the Bundestag ratios reflect precisely the second votes cast.But under this system, the Bundestag could swell to an even greater size than before. In theory to as high as 700 seats. The party that is likely to lose out most of all is Merkel's CDU, which gained most from the old system.Another crucial factor is that Germany also exercises a 5 per cent threshold rule, (to prevent an extreme amount of political fragmentation, as happened during the Weimar era) by which no party that secures less than 5 per cent can enter parliament. This is of particular interest this time round because Merkel's junior coalition partners, the Free Democrats (FDP) have been polling dangerously close to the threshold, as have the anti-Euro newcomers, the Alternative fur (umlaut over u) Deutschland.Got that? 4.14pm BST Only an hour to go til exit polls. I know you can't wait. But there are hefty fines for anyone who breathes a word about results before the witching hour. So we'll have to get a sense of winners and losers by skedaddling quickly around the party HQs.At the FDP shindig, @josieleblond reportsNow I don't know about you, but tense and nervous is not where I want to be on election night.Meanwhile, over at the AfD headquarters, a sense of anticipation and expectation. Hugh Bronson, candidate for Charlottenburg in Berlin and 4th on the party, told us:We've done all we could. The party doesn't have great funds but I'm very confident that we've got above the 5pc threshold.If it gets into parliament, the AfD would immediately table debates on the euro bailouts that Germany has sanctioned.It has to be discussed in public and in parliament. We want to show how dangerous this rescue policy isUpdated at 4.48pm BST 4.00pm BST Philip Oltermann writes:Peer Steinbr\u00fcck cast his vote in Bonn early this morning, claiming that he had had a good night's sleep. Merkel went to vote at 1.30pm at Humboldt University, close to her flat in Berlin Mitte. Steinbr\u00fcck wore a red tie and a black jacket, Merkel a copper-red jacket and black trousers, triggering plenty of jokes about the two politicians getting in the mood for a black-red \u201cgrand\u201d coalition (black being the traditional colour of Merkel's CDU). 61.8m Germans are eligible to vote, 400,000 fewer than in 2009. There are 3m first-time voters. 3.50pm BST Meanwhile, the Germans are not the only Europeans casting votes today. Across the Schwarzwald, the Swiss are deciding whether to scrap military conscription, like so many other European countries before them (including Germany http://www.theguardian.com/world/2011/mar/16/conscription-germany-army.)The Swiss are great for their Sunday referendums. Last year they even voted on whether to have longer holidays. For some reason they rejected this. Turnout was low. Too many people on holiday, probably. I'm not sure the conscription thing will pass either: they've rejected it twice before. But I digress... 3.39pm BST A snap from Berlin, where the early indications are that turnout is pretty strong. This, Philip Oltermann tells me, would favour the SPD, who always seem to do well when more people turn out.Bundeswahlleiter - Bis 14.00 Uhr betrug die Wahlbeteiligung 41,4% (ohne Briefw\u00e4hler). 2009 waren es 36,1%. #btw13The tweet, from the federal stats office, says that the turnout rate was five percentage points higher by 2pm that it was at the same time four years ago.Which leads me to wonder: much is written about apathy in western democracies, and how we don't vote in the number we used to. But perhaps the last three years of crisis have galvanised electorates somewhat. Thoughts people?Updated at 3.41pm BST 3.23pm BST First things first: the pecking order. Merkel's CDU have won the past two elections and are likely to get around two in five votes tonight, putting her in pole position to form another government. The SPD, a centre left party, is predicted to get around 25% - but it's what happens after that that gets interesting.The lefter left Linke group could well end up as the third largest party, ahead of the Greens and FDP, a liberal party, which have both endured miserable campaigns.The biggest imponderable is perhaps whether the AfD, an anti-euro party, makes it into parliament. Read what Josie Le Blond discovered about this maverick new group on the German scene. The other question we'll be looking to answer soon after 6pm CET (1600 GMT) is whether the FDP get more than 5% of the votes, which would enable Merkel to persist with the current coalition. More of the same would be greeted with relief on financial markets - but hefty sighs from Mediterranean countries tired of Berlin-inflicted austerity. An epic fail by the FDP would probably mean the SPD joining Merkel in a grand coalition. And that could have intriguing implications, as Philip Oltermann argued at the end of last week in this piece. 3.03pm BST Don't you just love election night? There is nothing quite like it for drama, upset and late-night suspense. Apart from perhaps an England-Germany semifinal that ends in a penalty shootout. But let's not go there. Tonight there will be German winners again, I can confidently report, but also some German losers too, so it might be worth staying tuned for that. Schadenfreude and Weltschmerz in equal measure.As for outcomes, this is both a foregone conclusion and gloriously unpredictable. Angela Merkel's CDU-CSU grouping will win. There are few doubts about that. But with enough margin? And who will she try to partner with in government? That, and not to be or not to be, is the question tonight.Now then, a confession: I'm actually 1,000 miles away from the action, but don't let that deter you. I did once work on a building site in West Germany and also spent a dismal night sleeping rough in Berlin in 1989, so I know a thing or two about Teutonic triumph and disaster. Well disaster at least. And we have our correspondents, Kate Connolly and Philip Oltermann, ready to feed us their election night nuggets of wisdom. There's a fancy vote counter coming soon, if I can manage to embed the thing, and lots of reaction from around the party HQs in Berlin.Updated at 3.24pm BST", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany election results  "},{"date": "2013-09-22T22:18:45Z", "country": "germany", "content": " 11.18pm BST OK, geschwind zu Pferde, or in my case, a train.What we know: Merkel wins, as predicted, everyone else has a rather poor night, umlauts take ages to cut and paste into liveblogs.What we don't know: who she governs with, how Europe reacts, whether Greece gets its third bailout, whether Cameron has a partner for shaking down Brussels, and plenty more besides. But's that all business for another day.For now it's Feierabend. Tsch\u00fcss 11.13pm BST A couple of last bits of telling data to leave you with...First of all, our own Wolfgang Blau points to some crunchy data from ARD showing how voters migrated from one party to another. I think the jaw-dropping number is the 2.2m FDP voters who drifted into the CDU camp.The result of that, and other psephological shifts (i love that word, though it's tricky to type when you've been staring at a screen for 10 hours) is that the electoral map of Germany now looks something like this, where black = Merkel 11.06pm BST  10.43pm BST Not all over for FDP - creeping closer to five percent. And so the best joke of the night might end up looking rather feeble. (What's the difference between the FDP and a Smart Car? The Smart car has two seats).Also, outright majority looking less likely for Merkel now, but I'm not sure how relevant that whole 'majority' thing was. Only about 55 constituencies to go now. To keep us going, let's have another FDP joke, this time from @chrisjcottrellUpdated at 10.54pm BST 9.57pm BST I want at this point to go off on a tangent, so if you're not up for that, go and do the washing up or something. Oh, and if you could make me a cup of tea and email it over, that would be nice.This graphic tells a pretty interesting story. Yes, it's in German, but bear with me. What it shows is that Germany is BY FAR China's largest trading partner in Europe. China is now almost as big a market for German exports as the UK. And it's catching up fast. And when it comes to imports, China is only just behind France as Germany's biggest purveyor of goods and services.What this suggests is that in her third term, Merkel will have one eye on Brussels but the other on Beijing. I'm not sure if this is even physically possible from Berlin without getting an excruciating headache. 9.49pm BST Let's have another skip through the party HQs, test the mood.Philip Oltermann is clearly having far too good a time with the victors, and like me has been unable to avoiding lapse into footballing analogy. Well, at least we know Angie is a fan.When Merkel took the stage at the CDU headquarters for one final time, shecould barely get a word in for the euphoric masses clad in orange \"Angie\" T-shirts shouting her name (\"Ruhig bleiben, Kanzlerin waehlen\", a take on the Keep Calm and Carry On slogan, was another favourite). As her ministers and advisers around her swayed and clapped in tune to the music, Merkel looked remarkably reserved. The song pumping out of the speakers was a schlager called \"Schachmatt\" (\"Check mate\"), but you could sense that for Merkel the game of coalition chess was just beginning.\"Tonight we can celebrate, but tomorrow we have to go back to work\", she said, but her followers didn't have any of it. \"The day after tomorrow\", they hollered back. And then: \"Oh, wie ist das sch\u00f6n\", as if they had just watched their football team win the Champions League \u2013 which in a way, they almost had. Once the music stopped, Merkel was the first to leave the stage and head straight for the exit.\"Meanwhile, over at the Left party's thing, several cadres have a good look round to spot the missing discoIndebted to The Local and its own blogging antics this evening for a glimpse inside the Green party do. Not much to celebrate here, I think, though they could still end up with around 60 MPs, which is 59 more than we have in the UK. 9.12pm BST One thing is for certain: Merkel is promising to stay on for another full four years. That will take her past Margaret Thatcher as Europe's longest serving female elected head of government. Last week, we drew up some bald comparisons, slapped them on a couple of cards, and got lots of stick from readers for it. Undaunted, we hereby re-present the item and the link to the full page, certain in the knowledge that much will be written in the coming days about Merkel and her amazing political longevity. 8.46pm BST Getting plenty of analysis now as to what this all means. First up, Stefan Kornelius, Merkel biographer, S\u00fcddeutsche foreign editor and a man who once bought me a large beer in a Munich Kneipe, He just wrote me this:Merkel is basking in triumph. What a day for her. This usually distant and unemotional women is grinning and cheering all evening. Finally she gets the reward she was denied for two consecutive elections. But she knows the traps: Sitting with her challengers and all the other party chairs in the traditional TV roundup, she is not giving a hint about her next steps. Certainly her party is that close to an overall majority - the first time since Adenauer in 1957. But waking up tomorrow morning with all votes counted she might need to find a coalition partner anyway.Even if she could govern on her own, she will need the Social Democrats' vote in the second chamber, the Bundesrat, for major domestic legislation. Also, the most pressing issues in Europe require a larger consent in the Bundestag. Merkel's big goal will be a major structural reform within the EU. To achieve this she might even be forced to change the German constitution and put it to a vote to the German people.Experience tells Merkel that political success is always followed by disappointment. She doesn't believe in a linear way to triumph. So her joyful mood will quickly fade and the old, cautious Merkel will return. Don't expect too much change. Merkel might win big, but that won't change her character.Next we have Mats Persson, director of the Open Europe think tank:Whatever happens this is a massive public endorsement for Angela Merkel, who has established herself as the most powerful female politician ever. Part of her resounding victory must also be seen as a validation of her eurozone policy \u2013 expect more of the same.Whether or not the anti-euro Afd makes it into parliament, its strong showing means it could become a force to be reckoned with in the European elections.No matter the coalition outcome, there will have to be a lot of soul searching by the FDP and centre-left. In the end the leadership of these parties could well end up paying the price for their poor showing.Also more from our own Ian Traynor, whose full piece is here:There will be little quick change in her policies on Europe, unless there are major developments in a big ailing country such as Italy or France.She is under no pressure at home to change in any case. The main opposition Social Democrats and Greens might bicker and attack her policies, but where and when it matters, in the chamber of the Bundestag in Berlin, they have always voted with her on the key decisions. 7.40pm BST While we wait for dust to settle, it's time for a bite to eat. I'm indebted to Nils for sending me a picture of his electoral dinner, and would encourage others to do likewise to @markriceoxley69. I may post more in the space, depending on how mouthwatering they are.Meanwhile, Philip Oltermann is at CDU HQ. He says that if this election was just about the food, then the CDU would once again win hands down.There's rather a nice goulash here, while the food at the AfD HQ ran out within two minutesThough judging from the pix he's sent through, I'm not so sure that this can be called a culinary triumph for Merkel. An astronomical victory, but not necessarily a gastronomical one.And here, just for the record is my own meal, which I'm sort of live-scoffing while I do thisUpdated at 10.01pm BST 7.35pm BST So here's what we've got so farAngela MerkelThis is a super result. Together, we will do all we can to make the next four years successful ones for Germany.We are not obligated as conservatives to campaign for the FDP.The party leadership will discuss everything when we have a final result but we can already celebrate tonight.Asked if she would serve a full third term:Yes, I am completely certain about that.Peer Steinbr\u00fcck, SPD candidateWe did not achieve the result we wanted.Philipp R\u00f6sler, FDP chairThe bitterest, saddest hour in the history of the FDP.Updated at 9.21pm BST 7.19pm BST In Athens, Helena Smith says the prospect of a grand coalition (CDU+SPD=GOVT) has met with a certain amount of relief, und zwar:Tassos Telloglou, veteran interpreter of German affairs:\u201cThe most likely scenario, that of a grand coalition between the CDU and the Social Democrats, is also the most positive scenario for Greece. The SDP has put much more emphasis on the policies of growth.\u201dJorgo Chatzimarkakis, Greek-German MEP\u201cThere are two pieces of good news from this election for Greece. The first is that it looks very likely that the alliance with the FDP won\u2019t continue. The other is that the SDP, which has the best views regarding policies of austerity and has even talked of a Marshall plan will likely join forces to form a government and if that is the case I would not expect austerity to continue as we have seen it. A grand coalition would be good for Greece. The bad news is that the anti-Greek Alternative fuer Deutschland party may enter parliament and if that is the case it will add to the pressure on Merkel to take a tough stance on the question of helping out the south and especially Greece.\u201d 6.59pm BST Here's some lively footage of scenes inside the various campaign HQs. The voiceover is in German, but then I think that's allowable as this is after all a German election. You get the idea: CDU chanting like a football crowd, SPD scratching heads, FDP wondering where it all went wrong.Updated at 7.21pm BST 6.46pm BST France eagerly wanted to be the first to congratulate Merkel on her victory, et voil\u00e0...Angelique Chrisafis in Paris writes:Francois Hollande, whose advisors had hinted he was likely to be the first world leader to congratulate Angela Merkel, has called her and invited her to Paris for talks as soon as the new government is formed. The Elysee said the two leaders vowed to work \u201ctirelessly\u201d to pursue \u201cclose cooperation\u201d on the \u201cnew challenges for European construction.\u201dThe political relationship between the Socialist Hollande and conservative Merkel has often been fraught \u2013 far from the \u201cMerkozy\u201d common front of Nicolas Sarkozy's presidency. But while Merkel actively pledged her support for the right-wing Sarkozy in the 2012 French presidential campaign - which Hollande went on to win - Hollande pointedly did not campaign for the centre left's Peer Steinbr\u00fcck of the SPD during this election.French media said Merkel's solid victory confirmed her status as the leader of Europe. French Socialists will be eagerly watching the final results to see whether Merkel has won an absolute majority or whether she will need a coalition and what form that might take. Before the result, French Socialists had hoped that if the centre-left took part in a German coalition, it could mark a move closer to Hollande's positions on Europe and social policies versus one-size-fits-all austerity.\u00a0I don't know if the response from Spanish or Greek socialists will be quite as effusive... watch this spaceFirst reaction coming through from Greece's main opposition radical left Syriza party, says Helena SmithI just caught Panos Skourletis, Syriza's spokesman, going into a television studio. Rather breathlessly he told me that Angela Merkel's strong performance diluted the prospect of a grand coalition being \"particularly positive\" for Greece. \"The only thing that will make a difference is if there is a different government in Greece and by that I mean a Syriza government,\" he said. Syriza, now leading in polls, says Greece will only revive economically is if its debt load is forgiven and austerity is replaced by growth enhancing measures. Tellingly, Syriza's leader, Alexis Tsipras, was in Germany throwing his weight behind the lelftist Die Linke party in the run-up to today's election, to drive that message home. Updated at 7.50pm BST 6.32pm BST Have just got off the phone with Frauke Petry, one of the leaders of the Alternative fur Deutschland (excuse missing umlaut - no time for accents now). Again I recorded our conversation, but because I am a technoramus, my shrewd incisive questions did not record. So here's what was said:Me: What's the mood like?FP: It's very exciting and we're still waiting to see if we get above the 5% markMe: You've only been around six months and have a shoestring budget, so how have you managed to make the breakthrough? FP: We have been out on the streets talking about the topics that many Germans regard as important topics. And the big parties have tried to exclude these issues from the election campaign, and so they have pushed people towards the AfD.Me: What's your big idea?FP: We have to rethink the euro crisis. We have to allow weaker countries like Greece and Spain and Portugal to leave the euro and rebuild their economies and then maybe return. We don't think we should pay for debts that have been accumulated by these countriesMe: I don't want to take the wind out of your sails or anything, but even if you do get into parliament, you won't be numerous enough to affect policy.FP: We are not so sure. We think we will be able to push CDU and SPD towards new positions. Many members of the CDU quite agree with us but haven't said so in publicMe: What's happening now?FP: Of course people hope for 5pc and still wait for the 5pc to appear on the screens, but are still very proud of what we have achieved over the past six months 6.22pm BST As the night proceeds and the votes are counted, those percentages above will nibble around a bit. And the CDU projection is going up as we speak, such that some are beginning to wonder about whether Merkel could secure an absolute majority.If she did, it would be the first in Germany since the days of Konrad Adenauer. And if you've no idea who he is, read in hereFor now, all that Merkel is saying is \"It's a super result\", and that she'll do everything to make the next four years successful for Germany. But what about Europe? 5.58pm BST Ian Traynor, our Europe editor, offers the following view of Merkel's win:More than three years into the European Union\u2019s worst ever nightmare, Merkel, uniquely in the Eurozone, has been hugely rewarded for her handling of the currency and sovereign debt crisis. Everywhere else voters have punished governments.Her victory demonstrates the gulf between Germany and the rest of the EU and the Eurozone, although it is not clear what impact her third term will have on the direction of the crisis.Her victory, with an increased share of the vote for her Christian democrats than in 2009 no less, will vindicate her confidence in the way she has dealt with the euro challenge. She will be encouraged to carry on as before, not least since she is confident that the heat is going out of the crisis and that her emphasis on savings, cuts, and structural reforms in the stricken eurozone economies is beginning to pay off. 5.52pm BST I've just got off the phone to Anna-Catherina Muller, a rank and file FDPer, who describes the fear and loathing at the Berlin HQ, and tries to figure out what went wrong. For some reason my questions don't come through, but they were pretty poor anyway, so don't worry about that 5.28pm BST Let's get some rapid-fire reaction to those exit pollsHere's AP scooping up the initial response from the big guns:Volker Kauder, the leader of her party's parliamentary group:We have a clear mandate from voters to form a government. (The outcome shows that) voters want Angela Merkel to remain chancellor.Senior Social Democrat Thomas Oppermann:The ball is in Merkel's court.Updated at 5.48pm BST 5.03pm BST Right then, according to ARD:CDU 42.0 %; SPD 26.0%; FDP 4.7%; Greens 8.0%; Linke 8.5%; AfD 4.9%, Piraten 2.5%Kate Connolly's snap judgement on that:A fantastic result for the CDU, but the SPD's second worst result of all time. We could end up with just four parties in the Bundestag, making coalition building interesting. At the moment it looks like it has to be a grand coalition.ARD TV showing grim-faced FDP cadres: could this be the first time they fall out of national parliament in 60 years? AfD by contrast overjoyed, some brandishing rather withered looking sunflowers. Not sure of significance of that...Updated at 5.08pm BST 4.32pm BST Now before we get to results, here's a quick briefing on how it all works. Kate Connolly says the rules of voting in Germany are as complicated as the rules of cricket. While I find myself wondering what the psephological equivalent of LBW is, Kate saysGermany's system is best described as a combination of the first past the post system (as used in Britain) and the proportional representation model. Voters are given two choices. On the left (black) side of their ballot paper they vote for an individual from their local constituency (there are 299 districts in Germany). On the right (blue) side, they vote for a party (34 are running this year). Added up, the second votes allow the parties to fill up a further 299 seats from the lists. Each of the parties receives a share of the 598 Bundestag seats proportionate to the number of second votes it has secured.Sometimes, a party wins more seats through the direct vote than it would get under the second vote. In the past, it has been allowed to keep these \"overhang\" seats. But now, under new rules ALL parties are rewarded if the direct votes for any party exceed their second vote quotient so that the Bundestag ratios reflect precisely the second votes cast.But under this system, the Bundestag could swell to an even greater size than before. In theory to as high as 700 seats. The party that is likely to lose out most of all is Merkel's CDU, which gained most from the old system.Another crucial factor is that Germany also exercises a 5 per cent threshold rule, (to prevent an extreme amount of political fragmentation, as happened during the Weimar era) by which no party that secures less than 5 per cent can enter parliament. This is of particular interest this time round because Merkel's junior coalition partners, the Free Democrats (FDP) have been polling dangerously close to the threshold, as have the anti-Euro newcomers, the Alternative fur (umlaut over u) Deutschland.Got that? 4.14pm BST Only an hour to go til exit polls. I know you can't wait. But there are hefty fines for anyone who breathes a word about results before the witching hour. So we'll have to get a sense of winners and losers by skedaddling quickly around the party HQs.At the FDP shindig, @josieleblond reportsNow I don't know about you, but tense and nervous is not where I want to be on election night.Meanwhile, over at the AfD headquarters, a sense of anticipation and expectation. Hugh Bronson, candidate for Charlottenburg in Berlin and 4th on the party, told us:We've done all we could. The party doesn't have great funds but I'm very confident that we've got above the 5pc threshold.If it gets into parliament, the AfD would immediately table debates on the euro bailouts that Germany has sanctioned.It has to be discussed in public and in parliament. We want to show how dangerous this rescue policy isUpdated at 4.48pm BST 4.00pm BST Philip Oltermann writes:Peer Steinbr\u00fcck cast his vote in Bonn early this morning, claiming that he had had a good night's sleep. Merkel went to vote at 1.30pm at Humboldt University, close to her flat in Berlin Mitte. Steinbr\u00fcck wore a red tie and a black jacket, Merkel a copper-red jacket and black trousers, triggering plenty of jokes about the two politicians getting in the mood for a black-red \u201cgrand\u201d coalition (black being the traditional colour of Merkel's CDU). 61.8m Germans are eligible to vote, 400,000 fewer than in 2009. There are 3m first-time voters. 3.50pm BST Meanwhile, the Germans are not the only Europeans casting votes today. Across the Schwarzwald, the Swiss are deciding whether to scrap military conscription, like so many other European countries before them (including Germany http://www.theguardian.com/world/2011/mar/16/conscription-germany-army.)The Swiss are great for their Sunday referendums. Last year they even voted on whether to have longer holidays. For some reason they rejected this. Turnout was low. Too many people on holiday, probably. I'm not sure the conscription thing will pass either: they've rejected it twice before. But I digress... 3.39pm BST A snap from Berlin, where the early indications are that turnout is pretty strong. This, Philip Oltermann tells me, would favour the SPD, who always seem to do well when more people turn out.Bundeswahlleiter - Bis 14.00 Uhr betrug die Wahlbeteiligung 41,4% (ohne Briefw\u00e4hler). 2009 waren es 36,1%. #btw13The tweet, from the federal stats office, says that the turnout rate was five percentage points higher by 2pm that it was at the same time four years ago.Which leads me to wonder: much is written about apathy in western democracies, and how we don't vote in the number we used to. But perhaps the last three years of crisis have galvanised electorates somewhat. Thoughts people?Updated at 3.41pm BST 3.23pm BST First things first: the pecking order. Merkel's CDU have won the past two elections and are likely to get around two in five votes tonight, putting her in pole position to form another government. The SPD, a centre left party, is predicted to get around 25% - but it's what happens after that that gets interesting.The lefter left Linke group could well end up as the third largest party, ahead of the Greens and FDP, a liberal party, which have both endured miserable campaigns.The biggest imponderable is perhaps whether the AfD, an anti-euro party, makes it into parliament. Read what Josie Le Blond discovered about this maverick new group on the German scene. The other question we'll be looking to answer soon after 6pm CET (1600 GMT) is whether the FDP get more than 5% of the votes, which would enable Merkel to persist with the current coalition. More of the same would be greeted with relief on financial markets - but hefty sighs from Mediterranean countries tired of Berlin-inflicted austerity. An epic fail by the FDP would probably mean the SPD joining Merkel in a grand coalition. And that could have intriguing implications, as Philip Oltermann argued at the end of last week in this piece. 3.03pm BST Don't you just love election night? There is nothing quite like it for drama, upset and late-night suspense. Apart from perhaps an England-Germany semifinal that ends in a penalty shootout. But let's not go there. Tonight there will be German winners again, I can confidently report, but also some German losers too, so it might be worth staying tuned for that. Schadenfreude and Weltschmerz in equal measure.As for outcomes, this is both a foregone conclusion and gloriously unpredictable. Angela Merkel's CDU-CSU grouping will win. There are few doubts about that. But with enough margin? And who will she try to partner with in government? That, and not to be or not to be, is the question tonight.Now then, a confession: I'm actually 1,000 miles away from the action, but don't let that deter you. I did once work on a building site in West Germany and also spent a dismal night sleeping rough in Berlin in 1989, so I know a thing or two about Teutonic triumph and disaster. Well disaster at least. And we have our correspondents, Kate Connolly and Philip Oltermann, ready to feed us their election night nuggets of wisdom. There's a fancy vote counter coming soon, if I can manage to embed the thing, and lots of reaction from around the party HQs in Berlin.Updated at 3.24pm BST", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany election results  "},{"date": "2013-09-22T22:04:52Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Keep tight hold of \"Mutti\". That was the message from German voters on Sunday as Angela Merkel \u2013 the nation's \"Mummy\" to her image makers \u2013 secured a stunning personal triumph at the polls that consolidates her unchallenged claim to be the dominant political leader in modern economic-crisis-riven Europe. Since the financial crisis struck the global economy in 2008, European voters have thrown out incumbent government after incumbent government, whether of the left, the centre or the right. But Mrs Merkel and her CDU/CSU centre-right party have bucked the anti-incumbency trend not once but twice. Mrs Merkel was first elected in 2005, forming a coalition with the ousted centre-left SPD. In 2009, she hung on to power even though the CDU/CSU vote had dipped, forming a coalition with the resurgent liberal FDP. Now, four years later, she has not so much hung on to power, as she did in 2009, as hugely increased her grip on it.Whatever the final share of the vote and seats, this election has been a massive endorsement for Mrs Merkel. The exit polls will doubtless move around a little before the final tallies of vote share and Bundestag seats are settled, and coalition options, if any, can be definitively considered. But with that important proviso, this is about as dominant a result as Mrs Merkel could have dreamed of, far better than the opinion polls were suggesting even at the end of last week. Her party seems likely to end up with 42%-43%, an increase of 10 points on four years ago, and the centre-right's best result since Helmut Kohl triumphed in the first post-reunification election in 1990.If, as seemed possible on Sunday night, only four parties win representation in the new Bundestag by topping the 5% threshold, Mrs Merkel may even have secured an overall majority, enabling the CDU/CSU to govern alone, not in coalition, for the first time since Konrad Adenauer in 1957. Bear in mind, at the same time, that Mrs Merkel's personal popularity runs far ahead of that of her party, and it becomes clear that we are witnessing a rare moment of indubitable political ascendancy in a continent where weak governments are the norm, not least in Britain.The centre-left Social Democrats may come out of this election as a junior coalition partner in a left-right \"grand coalition\" with Mrs Merkel. That would be a welcome move. They also slightly raised their share of the vote from the lamentable 23% of 2009 to 25%-26% this time. In every other respect, however, the SPD has little to celebrate. It is clear that the party's problems go deeper than just the gaffe-prone chancellor candidacy of Peer Steinbr\u00fcck. The SPD's programme of increased taxes on the wealthy and the middle classes failed to capture the mood of modern Germany. There will, and should, undoubtedly be a profound period of reflection on the German centre-left about the party's failure to win much more than a quarter of the electorate. The resilience of the Green vote and that of the Left party, though both lost support while the SPD gained a little, will surely lead to speculation about realignment. All this should be watched very attentively by centre-left politicians in this country, who face many of the same problems.The big loser in 2013 is the liberal FDP, which was on course on Sunday night to fail to cross the 5% threshold for the first time in 60 years, after winning nearly 15% four years ago. That failure is surely a verdict on the FDP's free-market programme, something that Mrs Merkel has scrupulously resisted in her own, nominally more rightwing party. It also seems clear that the growing fragmentation of party loyalties in German politics \u2013 in which the anti-eurozone-bailout AfD (Alternative f\u00fcr Deutschland) looked like falling just short of the threshold too \u2013 has damaged the FDP as well.The net result, though, is unmistakable. Germans have given Mrs Merkel a strong mandate to govern Germany. But the way she uses her new power will affect not just Germany, important though that is, but the whole of Europe \u2013 and that includes us here in Britain. This is the Age of Merkel.", "tags": ["Angela Merkel", "Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany: the Age of Merkel | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-09-22T22:18:45Z", "country": "germany", "content": " 11.18pm BST OK, geschwind zu Pferde, or in my case, a train.What we know: Merkel wins, as predicted, everyone else has a rather poor night, umlauts take ages to cut and paste into liveblogs.What we don't know: who she governs with, how Europe reacts, whether Greece gets its third bailout, whether Cameron has a partner for shaking down Brussels, and plenty more besides. But's that all business for another day.For now it's Feierabend. Tsch\u00fcss 11.13pm BST A couple of last bits of telling data to leave you with...First of all, our own Wolfgang Blau points to some crunchy data from ARD showing how voters migrated from one party to another. I think the jaw-dropping number is the 2.2m FDP voters who drifted into the CDU camp.The result of that, and other psephological shifts (i love that word, though it's tricky to type when you've been staring at a screen for 10 hours) is that the electoral map of Germany now looks something like this, where black = Merkel 11.06pm BST  10.43pm BST Not all over for FDP - creeping closer to five percent. And so the best joke of the night might end up looking rather feeble. (What's the difference between the FDP and a Smart Car? The Smart car has two seats).Also, outright majority looking less likely for Merkel now, but I'm not sure how relevant that whole 'majority' thing was. Only about 55 constituencies to go now. To keep us going, let's have another FDP joke, this time from @chrisjcottrellUpdated at 10.54pm BST 9.57pm BST I want at this point to go off on a tangent, so if you're not up for that, go and do the washing up or something. Oh, and if you could make me a cup of tea and email it over, that would be nice.This graphic tells a pretty interesting story. Yes, it's in German, but bear with me. What it shows is that Germany is BY FAR China's largest trading partner in Europe. China is now almost as big a market for German exports as the UK. And it's catching up fast. And when it comes to imports, China is only just behind France as Germany's biggest purveyor of goods and services.What this suggests is that in her third term, Merkel will have one eye on Brussels but the other on Beijing. I'm not sure if this is even physically possible from Berlin without getting an excruciating headache. 9.49pm BST Let's have another skip through the party HQs, test the mood.Philip Oltermann is clearly having far too good a time with the victors, and like me has been unable to avoiding lapse into footballing analogy. Well, at least we know Angie is a fan.When Merkel took the stage at the CDU headquarters for one final time, shecould barely get a word in for the euphoric masses clad in orange \"Angie\" T-shirts shouting her name (\"Ruhig bleiben, Kanzlerin waehlen\", a take on the Keep Calm and Carry On slogan, was another favourite). As her ministers and advisers around her swayed and clapped in tune to the music, Merkel looked remarkably reserved. The song pumping out of the speakers was a schlager called \"Schachmatt\" (\"Check mate\"), but you could sense that for Merkel the game of coalition chess was just beginning.\"Tonight we can celebrate, but tomorrow we have to go back to work\", she said, but her followers didn't have any of it. \"The day after tomorrow\", they hollered back. And then: \"Oh, wie ist das sch\u00f6n\", as if they had just watched their football team win the Champions League \u2013 which in a way, they almost had. Once the music stopped, Merkel was the first to leave the stage and head straight for the exit.\"Meanwhile, over at the Left party's thing, several cadres have a good look round to spot the missing discoIndebted to The Local and its own blogging antics this evening for a glimpse inside the Green party do. Not much to celebrate here, I think, though they could still end up with around 60 MPs, which is 59 more than we have in the UK. 9.12pm BST One thing is for certain: Merkel is promising to stay on for another full four years. That will take her past Margaret Thatcher as Europe's longest serving female elected head of government. Last week, we drew up some bald comparisons, slapped them on a couple of cards, and got lots of stick from readers for it. Undaunted, we hereby re-present the item and the link to the full page, certain in the knowledge that much will be written in the coming days about Merkel and her amazing political longevity. 8.46pm BST Getting plenty of analysis now as to what this all means. First up, Stefan Kornelius, Merkel biographer, S\u00fcddeutsche foreign editor and a man who once bought me a large beer in a Munich Kneipe, He just wrote me this:Merkel is basking in triumph. What a day for her. This usually distant and unemotional women is grinning and cheering all evening. Finally she gets the reward she was denied for two consecutive elections. But she knows the traps: Sitting with her challengers and all the other party chairs in the traditional TV roundup, she is not giving a hint about her next steps. Certainly her party is that close to an overall majority - the first time since Adenauer in 1957. But waking up tomorrow morning with all votes counted she might need to find a coalition partner anyway.Even if she could govern on her own, she will need the Social Democrats' vote in the second chamber, the Bundesrat, for major domestic legislation. Also, the most pressing issues in Europe require a larger consent in the Bundestag. Merkel's big goal will be a major structural reform within the EU. To achieve this she might even be forced to change the German constitution and put it to a vote to the German people.Experience tells Merkel that political success is always followed by disappointment. She doesn't believe in a linear way to triumph. So her joyful mood will quickly fade and the old, cautious Merkel will return. Don't expect too much change. Merkel might win big, but that won't change her character.Next we have Mats Persson, director of the Open Europe think tank:Whatever happens this is a massive public endorsement for Angela Merkel, who has established herself as the most powerful female politician ever. Part of her resounding victory must also be seen as a validation of her eurozone policy \u2013 expect more of the same.Whether or not the anti-euro Afd makes it into parliament, its strong showing means it could become a force to be reckoned with in the European elections.No matter the coalition outcome, there will have to be a lot of soul searching by the FDP and centre-left. In the end the leadership of these parties could well end up paying the price for their poor showing.Also more from our own Ian Traynor, whose full piece is here:There will be little quick change in her policies on Europe, unless there are major developments in a big ailing country such as Italy or France.She is under no pressure at home to change in any case. The main opposition Social Democrats and Greens might bicker and attack her policies, but where and when it matters, in the chamber of the Bundestag in Berlin, they have always voted with her on the key decisions. 7.40pm BST While we wait for dust to settle, it's time for a bite to eat. I'm indebted to Nils for sending me a picture of his electoral dinner, and would encourage others to do likewise to @markriceoxley69. I may post more in the space, depending on how mouthwatering they are.Meanwhile, Philip Oltermann is at CDU HQ. He says that if this election was just about the food, then the CDU would once again win hands down.There's rather a nice goulash here, while the food at the AfD HQ ran out within two minutesThough judging from the pix he's sent through, I'm not so sure that this can be called a culinary triumph for Merkel. An astronomical victory, but not necessarily a gastronomical one.And here, just for the record is my own meal, which I'm sort of live-scoffing while I do thisUpdated at 10.01pm BST 7.35pm BST So here's what we've got so farAngela MerkelThis is a super result. Together, we will do all we can to make the next four years successful ones for Germany.We are not obligated as conservatives to campaign for the FDP.The party leadership will discuss everything when we have a final result but we can already celebrate tonight.Asked if she would serve a full third term:Yes, I am completely certain about that.Peer Steinbr\u00fcck, SPD candidateWe did not achieve the result we wanted.Philipp R\u00f6sler, FDP chairThe bitterest, saddest hour in the history of the FDP.Updated at 9.21pm BST 7.19pm BST In Athens, Helena Smith says the prospect of a grand coalition (CDU+SPD=GOVT) has met with a certain amount of relief, und zwar:Tassos Telloglou, veteran interpreter of German affairs:\u201cThe most likely scenario, that of a grand coalition between the CDU and the Social Democrats, is also the most positive scenario for Greece. The SDP has put much more emphasis on the policies of growth.\u201dJorgo Chatzimarkakis, Greek-German MEP\u201cThere are two pieces of good news from this election for Greece. The first is that it looks very likely that the alliance with the FDP won\u2019t continue. The other is that the SDP, which has the best views regarding policies of austerity and has even talked of a Marshall plan will likely join forces to form a government and if that is the case I would not expect austerity to continue as we have seen it. A grand coalition would be good for Greece. The bad news is that the anti-Greek Alternative fuer Deutschland party may enter parliament and if that is the case it will add to the pressure on Merkel to take a tough stance on the question of helping out the south and especially Greece.\u201d 6.59pm BST Here's some lively footage of scenes inside the various campaign HQs. The voiceover is in German, but then I think that's allowable as this is after all a German election. You get the idea: CDU chanting like a football crowd, SPD scratching heads, FDP wondering where it all went wrong.Updated at 7.21pm BST 6.46pm BST France eagerly wanted to be the first to congratulate Merkel on her victory, et voil\u00e0...Angelique Chrisafis in Paris writes:Francois Hollande, whose advisors had hinted he was likely to be the first world leader to congratulate Angela Merkel, has called her and invited her to Paris for talks as soon as the new government is formed. The Elysee said the two leaders vowed to work \u201ctirelessly\u201d to pursue \u201cclose cooperation\u201d on the \u201cnew challenges for European construction.\u201dThe political relationship between the Socialist Hollande and conservative Merkel has often been fraught \u2013 far from the \u201cMerkozy\u201d common front of Nicolas Sarkozy's presidency. But while Merkel actively pledged her support for the right-wing Sarkozy in the 2012 French presidential campaign - which Hollande went on to win - Hollande pointedly did not campaign for the centre left's Peer Steinbr\u00fcck of the SPD during this election.French media said Merkel's solid victory confirmed her status as the leader of Europe. French Socialists will be eagerly watching the final results to see whether Merkel has won an absolute majority or whether she will need a coalition and what form that might take. Before the result, French Socialists had hoped that if the centre-left took part in a German coalition, it could mark a move closer to Hollande's positions on Europe and social policies versus one-size-fits-all austerity.\u00a0I don't know if the response from Spanish or Greek socialists will be quite as effusive... watch this spaceFirst reaction coming through from Greece's main opposition radical left Syriza party, says Helena SmithI just caught Panos Skourletis, Syriza's spokesman, going into a television studio. Rather breathlessly he told me that Angela Merkel's strong performance diluted the prospect of a grand coalition being \"particularly positive\" for Greece. \"The only thing that will make a difference is if there is a different government in Greece and by that I mean a Syriza government,\" he said. Syriza, now leading in polls, says Greece will only revive economically is if its debt load is forgiven and austerity is replaced by growth enhancing measures. Tellingly, Syriza's leader, Alexis Tsipras, was in Germany throwing his weight behind the lelftist Die Linke party in the run-up to today's election, to drive that message home. Updated at 7.50pm BST 6.32pm BST Have just got off the phone with Frauke Petry, one of the leaders of the Alternative fur Deutschland (excuse missing umlaut - no time for accents now). Again I recorded our conversation, but because I am a technoramus, my shrewd incisive questions did not record. So here's what was said:Me: What's the mood like?FP: It's very exciting and we're still waiting to see if we get above the 5% markMe: You've only been around six months and have a shoestring budget, so how have you managed to make the breakthrough? FP: We have been out on the streets talking about the topics that many Germans regard as important topics. And the big parties have tried to exclude these issues from the election campaign, and so they have pushed people towards the AfD.Me: What's your big idea?FP: We have to rethink the euro crisis. We have to allow weaker countries like Greece and Spain and Portugal to leave the euro and rebuild their economies and then maybe return. We don't think we should pay for debts that have been accumulated by these countriesMe: I don't want to take the wind out of your sails or anything, but even if you do get into parliament, you won't be numerous enough to affect policy.FP: We are not so sure. We think we will be able to push CDU and SPD towards new positions. Many members of the CDU quite agree with us but haven't said so in publicMe: What's happening now?FP: Of course people hope for 5pc and still wait for the 5pc to appear on the screens, but are still very proud of what we have achieved over the past six months 6.22pm BST As the night proceeds and the votes are counted, those percentages above will nibble around a bit. And the CDU projection is going up as we speak, such that some are beginning to wonder about whether Merkel could secure an absolute majority.If she did, it would be the first in Germany since the days of Konrad Adenauer. And if you've no idea who he is, read in hereFor now, all that Merkel is saying is \"It's a super result\", and that she'll do everything to make the next four years successful for Germany. But what about Europe? 5.58pm BST Ian Traynor, our Europe editor, offers the following view of Merkel's win:More than three years into the European Union\u2019s worst ever nightmare, Merkel, uniquely in the Eurozone, has been hugely rewarded for her handling of the currency and sovereign debt crisis. Everywhere else voters have punished governments.Her victory demonstrates the gulf between Germany and the rest of the EU and the Eurozone, although it is not clear what impact her third term will have on the direction of the crisis.Her victory, with an increased share of the vote for her Christian democrats than in 2009 no less, will vindicate her confidence in the way she has dealt with the euro challenge. She will be encouraged to carry on as before, not least since she is confident that the heat is going out of the crisis and that her emphasis on savings, cuts, and structural reforms in the stricken eurozone economies is beginning to pay off. 5.52pm BST I've just got off the phone to Anna-Catherina Muller, a rank and file FDPer, who describes the fear and loathing at the Berlin HQ, and tries to figure out what went wrong. For some reason my questions don't come through, but they were pretty poor anyway, so don't worry about that 5.28pm BST Let's get some rapid-fire reaction to those exit pollsHere's AP scooping up the initial response from the big guns:Volker Kauder, the leader of her party's parliamentary group:We have a clear mandate from voters to form a government. (The outcome shows that) voters want Angela Merkel to remain chancellor.Senior Social Democrat Thomas Oppermann:The ball is in Merkel's court.Updated at 5.48pm BST 5.03pm BST Right then, according to ARD:CDU 42.0 %; SPD 26.0%; FDP 4.7%; Greens 8.0%; Linke 8.5%; AfD 4.9%, Piraten 2.5%Kate Connolly's snap judgement on that:A fantastic result for the CDU, but the SPD's second worst result of all time. We could end up with just four parties in the Bundestag, making coalition building interesting. At the moment it looks like it has to be a grand coalition.ARD TV showing grim-faced FDP cadres: could this be the first time they fall out of national parliament in 60 years? AfD by contrast overjoyed, some brandishing rather withered looking sunflowers. Not sure of significance of that...Updated at 5.08pm BST 4.32pm BST Now before we get to results, here's a quick briefing on how it all works. Kate Connolly says the rules of voting in Germany are as complicated as the rules of cricket. While I find myself wondering what the psephological equivalent of LBW is, Kate saysGermany's system is best described as a combination of the first past the post system (as used in Britain) and the proportional representation model. Voters are given two choices. On the left (black) side of their ballot paper they vote for an individual from their local constituency (there are 299 districts in Germany). On the right (blue) side, they vote for a party (34 are running this year). Added up, the second votes allow the parties to fill up a further 299 seats from the lists. Each of the parties receives a share of the 598 Bundestag seats proportionate to the number of second votes it has secured.Sometimes, a party wins more seats through the direct vote than it would get under the second vote. In the past, it has been allowed to keep these \"overhang\" seats. But now, under new rules ALL parties are rewarded if the direct votes for any party exceed their second vote quotient so that the Bundestag ratios reflect precisely the second votes cast.But under this system, the Bundestag could swell to an even greater size than before. In theory to as high as 700 seats. The party that is likely to lose out most of all is Merkel's CDU, which gained most from the old system.Another crucial factor is that Germany also exercises a 5 per cent threshold rule, (to prevent an extreme amount of political fragmentation, as happened during the Weimar era) by which no party that secures less than 5 per cent can enter parliament. This is of particular interest this time round because Merkel's junior coalition partners, the Free Democrats (FDP) have been polling dangerously close to the threshold, as have the anti-Euro newcomers, the Alternative fur (umlaut over u) Deutschland.Got that? 4.14pm BST Only an hour to go til exit polls. I know you can't wait. But there are hefty fines for anyone who breathes a word about results before the witching hour. So we'll have to get a sense of winners and losers by skedaddling quickly around the party HQs.At the FDP shindig, @josieleblond reportsNow I don't know about you, but tense and nervous is not where I want to be on election night.Meanwhile, over at the AfD headquarters, a sense of anticipation and expectation. Hugh Bronson, candidate for Charlottenburg in Berlin and 4th on the party, told us:We've done all we could. The party doesn't have great funds but I'm very confident that we've got above the 5pc threshold.If it gets into parliament, the AfD would immediately table debates on the euro bailouts that Germany has sanctioned.It has to be discussed in public and in parliament. We want to show how dangerous this rescue policy isUpdated at 4.48pm BST 4.00pm BST Philip Oltermann writes:Peer Steinbr\u00fcck cast his vote in Bonn early this morning, claiming that he had had a good night's sleep. Merkel went to vote at 1.30pm at Humboldt University, close to her flat in Berlin Mitte. Steinbr\u00fcck wore a red tie and a black jacket, Merkel a copper-red jacket and black trousers, triggering plenty of jokes about the two politicians getting in the mood for a black-red \u201cgrand\u201d coalition (black being the traditional colour of Merkel's CDU). 61.8m Germans are eligible to vote, 400,000 fewer than in 2009. There are 3m first-time voters. 3.50pm BST Meanwhile, the Germans are not the only Europeans casting votes today. Across the Schwarzwald, the Swiss are deciding whether to scrap military conscription, like so many other European countries before them (including Germany http://www.theguardian.com/world/2011/mar/16/conscription-germany-army.)The Swiss are great for their Sunday referendums. Last year they even voted on whether to have longer holidays. For some reason they rejected this. Turnout was low. Too many people on holiday, probably. I'm not sure the conscription thing will pass either: they've rejected it twice before. But I digress... 3.39pm BST A snap from Berlin, where the early indications are that turnout is pretty strong. This, Philip Oltermann tells me, would favour the SPD, who always seem to do well when more people turn out.Bundeswahlleiter - Bis 14.00 Uhr betrug die Wahlbeteiligung 41,4% (ohne Briefw\u00e4hler). 2009 waren es 36,1%. #btw13The tweet, from the federal stats office, says that the turnout rate was five percentage points higher by 2pm that it was at the same time four years ago.Which leads me to wonder: much is written about apathy in western democracies, and how we don't vote in the number we used to. But perhaps the last three years of crisis have galvanised electorates somewhat. Thoughts people?Updated at 3.41pm BST 3.23pm BST First things first: the pecking order. Merkel's CDU have won the past two elections and are likely to get around two in five votes tonight, putting her in pole position to form another government. The SPD, a centre left party, is predicted to get around 25% - but it's what happens after that that gets interesting.The lefter left Linke group could well end up as the third largest party, ahead of the Greens and FDP, a liberal party, which have both endured miserable campaigns.The biggest imponderable is perhaps whether the AfD, an anti-euro party, makes it into parliament. Read what Josie Le Blond discovered about this maverick new group on the German scene. The other question we'll be looking to answer soon after 6pm CET (1600 GMT) is whether the FDP get more than 5% of the votes, which would enable Merkel to persist with the current coalition. More of the same would be greeted with relief on financial markets - but hefty sighs from Mediterranean countries tired of Berlin-inflicted austerity. An epic fail by the FDP would probably mean the SPD joining Merkel in a grand coalition. And that could have intriguing implications, as Philip Oltermann argued at the end of last week in this piece. 3.03pm BST Don't you just love election night? There is nothing quite like it for drama, upset and late-night suspense. Apart from perhaps an England-Germany semifinal that ends in a penalty shootout. But let's not go there. Tonight there will be German winners again, I can confidently report, but also some German losers too, so it might be worth staying tuned for that. Schadenfreude and Weltschmerz in equal measure.As for outcomes, this is both a foregone conclusion and gloriously unpredictable. Angela Merkel's CDU-CSU grouping will win. There are few doubts about that. But with enough margin? And who will she try to partner with in government? That, and not to be or not to be, is the question tonight.Now then, a confession: I'm actually 1,000 miles away from the action, but don't let that deter you. I did once work on a building site in West Germany and also spent a dismal night sleeping rough in Berlin in 1989, so I know a thing or two about Teutonic triumph and disaster. Well disaster at least. And we have our correspondents, Kate Connolly and Philip Oltermann, ready to feed us their election night nuggets of wisdom. There's a fancy vote counter coming soon, if I can manage to embed the thing, and lots of reaction from around the party HQs in Berlin.Updated at 3.24pm BST", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany election results  "},{"date": "2013-09-22T22:04:52Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Keep tight hold of \"Mutti\". That was the message from German voters on Sunday as Angela Merkel \u2013 the nation's \"Mummy\" to her image makers \u2013 secured a stunning personal triumph at the polls that consolidates her unchallenged claim to be the dominant political leader in modern economic-crisis-riven Europe. Since the financial crisis struck the global economy in 2008, European voters have thrown out incumbent government after incumbent government, whether of the left, the centre or the right. But Mrs Merkel and her CDU/CSU centre-right party have bucked the anti-incumbency trend not once but twice. Mrs Merkel was first elected in 2005, forming a coalition with the ousted centre-left SPD. In 2009, she hung on to power even though the CDU/CSU vote had dipped, forming a coalition with the resurgent liberal FDP. Now, four years later, she has not so much hung on to power, as she did in 2009, as hugely increased her grip on it.Whatever the final share of the vote and seats, this election has been a massive endorsement for Mrs Merkel. The exit polls will doubtless move around a little before the final tallies of vote share and Bundestag seats are settled, and coalition options, if any, can be definitively considered. But with that important proviso, this is about as dominant a result as Mrs Merkel could have dreamed of, far better than the opinion polls were suggesting even at the end of last week. Her party seems likely to end up with 42%-43%, an increase of 10 points on four years ago, and the centre-right's best result since Helmut Kohl triumphed in the first post-reunification election in 1990.If, as seemed possible on Sunday night, only four parties win representation in the new Bundestag by topping the 5% threshold, Mrs Merkel may even have secured an overall majority, enabling the CDU/CSU to govern alone, not in coalition, for the first time since Konrad Adenauer in 1957. Bear in mind, at the same time, that Mrs Merkel's personal popularity runs far ahead of that of her party, and it becomes clear that we are witnessing a rare moment of indubitable political ascendancy in a continent where weak governments are the norm, not least in Britain.The centre-left Social Democrats may come out of this election as a junior coalition partner in a left-right \"grand coalition\" with Mrs Merkel. That would be a welcome move. They also slightly raised their share of the vote from the lamentable 23% of 2009 to 25%-26% this time. In every other respect, however, the SPD has little to celebrate. It is clear that the party's problems go deeper than just the gaffe-prone chancellor candidacy of Peer Steinbr\u00fcck. The SPD's programme of increased taxes on the wealthy and the middle classes failed to capture the mood of modern Germany. There will, and should, undoubtedly be a profound period of reflection on the German centre-left about the party's failure to win much more than a quarter of the electorate. The resilience of the Green vote and that of the Left party, though both lost support while the SPD gained a little, will surely lead to speculation about realignment. All this should be watched very attentively by centre-left politicians in this country, who face many of the same problems.The big loser in 2013 is the liberal FDP, which was on course on Sunday night to fail to cross the 5% threshold for the first time in 60 years, after winning nearly 15% four years ago. That failure is surely a verdict on the FDP's free-market programme, something that Mrs Merkel has scrupulously resisted in her own, nominally more rightwing party. It also seems clear that the growing fragmentation of party loyalties in German politics \u2013 in which the anti-eurozone-bailout AfD (Alternative f\u00fcr Deutschland) looked like falling just short of the threshold too \u2013 has damaged the FDP as well.The net result, though, is unmistakable. Germans have given Mrs Merkel a strong mandate to govern Germany. But the way she uses her new power will affect not just Germany, important though that is, but the whole of Europe \u2013 and that includes us here in Britain. This is the Age of Merkel.", "tags": ["Angela Merkel", "Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany: the Age of Merkel | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-18T20:11:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Next month's German general election will naturally have most impact in Germany itself. But the rest of Europe's politicians are watching the German campaign very closely too \u2013 and so should Europe's peoples. This is partly because a prosperous and growing Germany is a more dominant player than ever in today's EU. But it is also because the choice that Germans make on 22 September will directly affect us all, whether we are members of the eurozone or not. The list of interested parties therefore includes Britain.David Cameron has three particular reasons for wanting Chancellor Angela Merkel's centre-right CDU to be re-elected next month. The first is that, in spite of real differences over what it means to be a centre-right party in 21st-century Europe, the CDU and the Conservatives remain sister parties. They have become distanced, notably because of Tory Euroscepticism \u2013 not shared by the CDU \u2013 and by Mr Cameron's withdrawal of the Tories from the European People's party grouping. But the Tories clearly have even less in common with the CDU's principal rivals, the Social Democratic party of Germany (SPD).Mr Cameron's second reason is that it would be good news for incumbents like him. For a while, after the 2008 financial crisis, European voters simply took it out on incumbent governments \u2013 whatever their political stripe. Brown and Zapatero on the left, Berlusconi and Sarkozy on the right \u2013 all lost out. If Mrs Merkel manages to buck the trend, not least in the wake of her commitment to economic austerity and deficit reduction, the Tories will see light at the end of their own tunnel too.But Mr Cameron's principal reason for wanting a CDU victory next month is that a re-elected Mrs Merkel would be pivotal to his own EU strategy if he, too, secures re-election in 2015. Last week, in an important interview, Mrs Merkel signalled that, if re-elected, she is willing to look at EU moves to \"give something back\" to member states. This is what Mr Cameron says he wants to do too, so that he can offer British voters a renegotiated relationship with the EU to approve in his 2017 referendum. If reports are to be believed, two areas on which the UK and Germany might agree are migrant benefits and labour market regulation.The upshot of all this is deeply paradoxical. Tories like Mr Cameron, who want to stay in the EU after renegotiations of the sort which the German leader seems now to be sanctioning, will obviously want Mrs Merkel to be re-elected. But there are few things the Tories' out-and-out anti-Europeans should fear more than a German chancellor willing to make concessions to keep the UK in the EU. For anti-EU Tories, nothing would be worse than Mrs Merkel's re-election and the boost it might give to an eventual yes vote in a UK referendum.", "tags": ["David Cameron", "Germany", "European Union", "Politics"], "title": "David Cameron: gambling on Germany | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-09-22T22:18:45Z", "country": "germany", "content": " 11.18pm BST OK, geschwind zu Pferde, or in my case, a train.What we know: Merkel wins, as predicted, everyone else has a rather poor night, umlauts take ages to cut and paste into liveblogs.What we don't know: who she governs with, how Europe reacts, whether Greece gets its third bailout, whether Cameron has a partner for shaking down Brussels, and plenty more besides. But's that all business for another day.For now it's Feierabend. Tsch\u00fcss 11.13pm BST A couple of last bits of telling data to leave you with...First of all, our own Wolfgang Blau points to some crunchy data from ARD showing how voters migrated from one party to another. I think the jaw-dropping number is the 2.2m FDP voters who drifted into the CDU camp.The result of that, and other psephological shifts (i love that word, though it's tricky to type when you've been staring at a screen for 10 hours) is that the electoral map of Germany now looks something like this, where black = Merkel 11.06pm BST  10.43pm BST Not all over for FDP - creeping closer to five percent. And so the best joke of the night might end up looking rather feeble. (What's the difference between the FDP and a Smart Car? The Smart car has two seats).Also, outright majority looking less likely for Merkel now, but I'm not sure how relevant that whole 'majority' thing was. Only about 55 constituencies to go now. To keep us going, let's have another FDP joke, this time from @chrisjcottrellUpdated at 10.54pm BST 9.57pm BST I want at this point to go off on a tangent, so if you're not up for that, go and do the washing up or something. Oh, and if you could make me a cup of tea and email it over, that would be nice.This graphic tells a pretty interesting story. Yes, it's in German, but bear with me. What it shows is that Germany is BY FAR China's largest trading partner in Europe. China is now almost as big a market for German exports as the UK. And it's catching up fast. And when it comes to imports, China is only just behind France as Germany's biggest purveyor of goods and services.What this suggests is that in her third term, Merkel will have one eye on Brussels but the other on Beijing. I'm not sure if this is even physically possible from Berlin without getting an excruciating headache. 9.49pm BST Let's have another skip through the party HQs, test the mood.Philip Oltermann is clearly having far too good a time with the victors, and like me has been unable to avoiding lapse into footballing analogy. Well, at least we know Angie is a fan.When Merkel took the stage at the CDU headquarters for one final time, shecould barely get a word in for the euphoric masses clad in orange \"Angie\" T-shirts shouting her name (\"Ruhig bleiben, Kanzlerin waehlen\", a take on the Keep Calm and Carry On slogan, was another favourite). As her ministers and advisers around her swayed and clapped in tune to the music, Merkel looked remarkably reserved. The song pumping out of the speakers was a schlager called \"Schachmatt\" (\"Check mate\"), but you could sense that for Merkel the game of coalition chess was just beginning.\"Tonight we can celebrate, but tomorrow we have to go back to work\", she said, but her followers didn't have any of it. \"The day after tomorrow\", they hollered back. And then: \"Oh, wie ist das sch\u00f6n\", as if they had just watched their football team win the Champions League \u2013 which in a way, they almost had. Once the music stopped, Merkel was the first to leave the stage and head straight for the exit.\"Meanwhile, over at the Left party's thing, several cadres have a good look round to spot the missing discoIndebted to The Local and its own blogging antics this evening for a glimpse inside the Green party do. Not much to celebrate here, I think, though they could still end up with around 60 MPs, which is 59 more than we have in the UK. 9.12pm BST One thing is for certain: Merkel is promising to stay on for another full four years. That will take her past Margaret Thatcher as Europe's longest serving female elected head of government. Last week, we drew up some bald comparisons, slapped them on a couple of cards, and got lots of stick from readers for it. Undaunted, we hereby re-present the item and the link to the full page, certain in the knowledge that much will be written in the coming days about Merkel and her amazing political longevity. 8.46pm BST Getting plenty of analysis now as to what this all means. First up, Stefan Kornelius, Merkel biographer, S\u00fcddeutsche foreign editor and a man who once bought me a large beer in a Munich Kneipe, He just wrote me this:Merkel is basking in triumph. What a day for her. This usually distant and unemotional women is grinning and cheering all evening. Finally she gets the reward she was denied for two consecutive elections. But she knows the traps: Sitting with her challengers and all the other party chairs in the traditional TV roundup, she is not giving a hint about her next steps. Certainly her party is that close to an overall majority - the first time since Adenauer in 1957. But waking up tomorrow morning with all votes counted she might need to find a coalition partner anyway.Even if she could govern on her own, she will need the Social Democrats' vote in the second chamber, the Bundesrat, for major domestic legislation. Also, the most pressing issues in Europe require a larger consent in the Bundestag. Merkel's big goal will be a major structural reform within the EU. To achieve this she might even be forced to change the German constitution and put it to a vote to the German people.Experience tells Merkel that political success is always followed by disappointment. She doesn't believe in a linear way to triumph. So her joyful mood will quickly fade and the old, cautious Merkel will return. Don't expect too much change. Merkel might win big, but that won't change her character.Next we have Mats Persson, director of the Open Europe think tank:Whatever happens this is a massive public endorsement for Angela Merkel, who has established herself as the most powerful female politician ever. Part of her resounding victory must also be seen as a validation of her eurozone policy \u2013 expect more of the same.Whether or not the anti-euro Afd makes it into parliament, its strong showing means it could become a force to be reckoned with in the European elections.No matter the coalition outcome, there will have to be a lot of soul searching by the FDP and centre-left. In the end the leadership of these parties could well end up paying the price for their poor showing.Also more from our own Ian Traynor, whose full piece is here:There will be little quick change in her policies on Europe, unless there are major developments in a big ailing country such as Italy or France.She is under no pressure at home to change in any case. The main opposition Social Democrats and Greens might bicker and attack her policies, but where and when it matters, in the chamber of the Bundestag in Berlin, they have always voted with her on the key decisions. 7.40pm BST While we wait for dust to settle, it's time for a bite to eat. I'm indebted to Nils for sending me a picture of his electoral dinner, and would encourage others to do likewise to @markriceoxley69. I may post more in the space, depending on how mouthwatering they are.Meanwhile, Philip Oltermann is at CDU HQ. He says that if this election was just about the food, then the CDU would once again win hands down.There's rather a nice goulash here, while the food at the AfD HQ ran out within two minutesThough judging from the pix he's sent through, I'm not so sure that this can be called a culinary triumph for Merkel. An astronomical victory, but not necessarily a gastronomical one.And here, just for the record is my own meal, which I'm sort of live-scoffing while I do thisUpdated at 10.01pm BST 7.35pm BST So here's what we've got so farAngela MerkelThis is a super result. Together, we will do all we can to make the next four years successful ones for Germany.We are not obligated as conservatives to campaign for the FDP.The party leadership will discuss everything when we have a final result but we can already celebrate tonight.Asked if she would serve a full third term:Yes, I am completely certain about that.Peer Steinbr\u00fcck, SPD candidateWe did not achieve the result we wanted.Philipp R\u00f6sler, FDP chairThe bitterest, saddest hour in the history of the FDP.Updated at 9.21pm BST 7.19pm BST In Athens, Helena Smith says the prospect of a grand coalition (CDU+SPD=GOVT) has met with a certain amount of relief, und zwar:Tassos Telloglou, veteran interpreter of German affairs:\u201cThe most likely scenario, that of a grand coalition between the CDU and the Social Democrats, is also the most positive scenario for Greece. The SDP has put much more emphasis on the policies of growth.\u201dJorgo Chatzimarkakis, Greek-German MEP\u201cThere are two pieces of good news from this election for Greece. The first is that it looks very likely that the alliance with the FDP won\u2019t continue. The other is that the SDP, which has the best views regarding policies of austerity and has even talked of a Marshall plan will likely join forces to form a government and if that is the case I would not expect austerity to continue as we have seen it. A grand coalition would be good for Greece. The bad news is that the anti-Greek Alternative fuer Deutschland party may enter parliament and if that is the case it will add to the pressure on Merkel to take a tough stance on the question of helping out the south and especially Greece.\u201d 6.59pm BST Here's some lively footage of scenes inside the various campaign HQs. The voiceover is in German, but then I think that's allowable as this is after all a German election. You get the idea: CDU chanting like a football crowd, SPD scratching heads, FDP wondering where it all went wrong.Updated at 7.21pm BST 6.46pm BST France eagerly wanted to be the first to congratulate Merkel on her victory, et voil\u00e0...Angelique Chrisafis in Paris writes:Francois Hollande, whose advisors had hinted he was likely to be the first world leader to congratulate Angela Merkel, has called her and invited her to Paris for talks as soon as the new government is formed. The Elysee said the two leaders vowed to work \u201ctirelessly\u201d to pursue \u201cclose cooperation\u201d on the \u201cnew challenges for European construction.\u201dThe political relationship between the Socialist Hollande and conservative Merkel has often been fraught \u2013 far from the \u201cMerkozy\u201d common front of Nicolas Sarkozy's presidency. But while Merkel actively pledged her support for the right-wing Sarkozy in the 2012 French presidential campaign - which Hollande went on to win - Hollande pointedly did not campaign for the centre left's Peer Steinbr\u00fcck of the SPD during this election.French media said Merkel's solid victory confirmed her status as the leader of Europe. French Socialists will be eagerly watching the final results to see whether Merkel has won an absolute majority or whether she will need a coalition and what form that might take. Before the result, French Socialists had hoped that if the centre-left took part in a German coalition, it could mark a move closer to Hollande's positions on Europe and social policies versus one-size-fits-all austerity.\u00a0I don't know if the response from Spanish or Greek socialists will be quite as effusive... watch this spaceFirst reaction coming through from Greece's main opposition radical left Syriza party, says Helena SmithI just caught Panos Skourletis, Syriza's spokesman, going into a television studio. Rather breathlessly he told me that Angela Merkel's strong performance diluted the prospect of a grand coalition being \"particularly positive\" for Greece. \"The only thing that will make a difference is if there is a different government in Greece and by that I mean a Syriza government,\" he said. Syriza, now leading in polls, says Greece will only revive economically is if its debt load is forgiven and austerity is replaced by growth enhancing measures. Tellingly, Syriza's leader, Alexis Tsipras, was in Germany throwing his weight behind the lelftist Die Linke party in the run-up to today's election, to drive that message home. Updated at 7.50pm BST 6.32pm BST Have just got off the phone with Frauke Petry, one of the leaders of the Alternative fur Deutschland (excuse missing umlaut - no time for accents now). Again I recorded our conversation, but because I am a technoramus, my shrewd incisive questions did not record. So here's what was said:Me: What's the mood like?FP: It's very exciting and we're still waiting to see if we get above the 5% markMe: You've only been around six months and have a shoestring budget, so how have you managed to make the breakthrough? FP: We have been out on the streets talking about the topics that many Germans regard as important topics. And the big parties have tried to exclude these issues from the election campaign, and so they have pushed people towards the AfD.Me: What's your big idea?FP: We have to rethink the euro crisis. We have to allow weaker countries like Greece and Spain and Portugal to leave the euro and rebuild their economies and then maybe return. We don't think we should pay for debts that have been accumulated by these countriesMe: I don't want to take the wind out of your sails or anything, but even if you do get into parliament, you won't be numerous enough to affect policy.FP: We are not so sure. We think we will be able to push CDU and SPD towards new positions. Many members of the CDU quite agree with us but haven't said so in publicMe: What's happening now?FP: Of course people hope for 5pc and still wait for the 5pc to appear on the screens, but are still very proud of what we have achieved over the past six months 6.22pm BST As the night proceeds and the votes are counted, those percentages above will nibble around a bit. And the CDU projection is going up as we speak, such that some are beginning to wonder about whether Merkel could secure an absolute majority.If she did, it would be the first in Germany since the days of Konrad Adenauer. And if you've no idea who he is, read in hereFor now, all that Merkel is saying is \"It's a super result\", and that she'll do everything to make the next four years successful for Germany. But what about Europe? 5.58pm BST Ian Traynor, our Europe editor, offers the following view of Merkel's win:More than three years into the European Union\u2019s worst ever nightmare, Merkel, uniquely in the Eurozone, has been hugely rewarded for her handling of the currency and sovereign debt crisis. Everywhere else voters have punished governments.Her victory demonstrates the gulf between Germany and the rest of the EU and the Eurozone, although it is not clear what impact her third term will have on the direction of the crisis.Her victory, with an increased share of the vote for her Christian democrats than in 2009 no less, will vindicate her confidence in the way she has dealt with the euro challenge. She will be encouraged to carry on as before, not least since she is confident that the heat is going out of the crisis and that her emphasis on savings, cuts, and structural reforms in the stricken eurozone economies is beginning to pay off. 5.52pm BST I've just got off the phone to Anna-Catherina Muller, a rank and file FDPer, who describes the fear and loathing at the Berlin HQ, and tries to figure out what went wrong. For some reason my questions don't come through, but they were pretty poor anyway, so don't worry about that 5.28pm BST Let's get some rapid-fire reaction to those exit pollsHere's AP scooping up the initial response from the big guns:Volker Kauder, the leader of her party's parliamentary group:We have a clear mandate from voters to form a government. (The outcome shows that) voters want Angela Merkel to remain chancellor.Senior Social Democrat Thomas Oppermann:The ball is in Merkel's court.Updated at 5.48pm BST 5.03pm BST Right then, according to ARD:CDU 42.0 %; SPD 26.0%; FDP 4.7%; Greens 8.0%; Linke 8.5%; AfD 4.9%, Piraten 2.5%Kate Connolly's snap judgement on that:A fantastic result for the CDU, but the SPD's second worst result of all time. We could end up with just four parties in the Bundestag, making coalition building interesting. At the moment it looks like it has to be a grand coalition.ARD TV showing grim-faced FDP cadres: could this be the first time they fall out of national parliament in 60 years? AfD by contrast overjoyed, some brandishing rather withered looking sunflowers. Not sure of significance of that...Updated at 5.08pm BST 4.32pm BST Now before we get to results, here's a quick briefing on how it all works. Kate Connolly says the rules of voting in Germany are as complicated as the rules of cricket. While I find myself wondering what the psephological equivalent of LBW is, Kate saysGermany's system is best described as a combination of the first past the post system (as used in Britain) and the proportional representation model. Voters are given two choices. On the left (black) side of their ballot paper they vote for an individual from their local constituency (there are 299 districts in Germany). On the right (blue) side, they vote for a party (34 are running this year). Added up, the second votes allow the parties to fill up a further 299 seats from the lists. Each of the parties receives a share of the 598 Bundestag seats proportionate to the number of second votes it has secured.Sometimes, a party wins more seats through the direct vote than it would get under the second vote. In the past, it has been allowed to keep these \"overhang\" seats. But now, under new rules ALL parties are rewarded if the direct votes for any party exceed their second vote quotient so that the Bundestag ratios reflect precisely the second votes cast.But under this system, the Bundestag could swell to an even greater size than before. In theory to as high as 700 seats. The party that is likely to lose out most of all is Merkel's CDU, which gained most from the old system.Another crucial factor is that Germany also exercises a 5 per cent threshold rule, (to prevent an extreme amount of political fragmentation, as happened during the Weimar era) by which no party that secures less than 5 per cent can enter parliament. This is of particular interest this time round because Merkel's junior coalition partners, the Free Democrats (FDP) have been polling dangerously close to the threshold, as have the anti-Euro newcomers, the Alternative fur (umlaut over u) Deutschland.Got that? 4.14pm BST Only an hour to go til exit polls. I know you can't wait. But there are hefty fines for anyone who breathes a word about results before the witching hour. So we'll have to get a sense of winners and losers by skedaddling quickly around the party HQs.At the FDP shindig, @josieleblond reportsNow I don't know about you, but tense and nervous is not where I want to be on election night.Meanwhile, over at the AfD headquarters, a sense of anticipation and expectation. Hugh Bronson, candidate for Charlottenburg in Berlin and 4th on the party, told us:We've done all we could. The party doesn't have great funds but I'm very confident that we've got above the 5pc threshold.If it gets into parliament, the AfD would immediately table debates on the euro bailouts that Germany has sanctioned.It has to be discussed in public and in parliament. We want to show how dangerous this rescue policy isUpdated at 4.48pm BST 4.00pm BST Philip Oltermann writes:Peer Steinbr\u00fcck cast his vote in Bonn early this morning, claiming that he had had a good night's sleep. Merkel went to vote at 1.30pm at Humboldt University, close to her flat in Berlin Mitte. Steinbr\u00fcck wore a red tie and a black jacket, Merkel a copper-red jacket and black trousers, triggering plenty of jokes about the two politicians getting in the mood for a black-red \u201cgrand\u201d coalition (black being the traditional colour of Merkel's CDU). 61.8m Germans are eligible to vote, 400,000 fewer than in 2009. There are 3m first-time voters. 3.50pm BST Meanwhile, the Germans are not the only Europeans casting votes today. Across the Schwarzwald, the Swiss are deciding whether to scrap military conscription, like so many other European countries before them (including Germany http://www.theguardian.com/world/2011/mar/16/conscription-germany-army.)The Swiss are great for their Sunday referendums. Last year they even voted on whether to have longer holidays. For some reason they rejected this. Turnout was low. Too many people on holiday, probably. I'm not sure the conscription thing will pass either: they've rejected it twice before. But I digress... 3.39pm BST A snap from Berlin, where the early indications are that turnout is pretty strong. This, Philip Oltermann tells me, would favour the SPD, who always seem to do well when more people turn out.Bundeswahlleiter - Bis 14.00 Uhr betrug die Wahlbeteiligung 41,4% (ohne Briefw\u00e4hler). 2009 waren es 36,1%. #btw13The tweet, from the federal stats office, says that the turnout rate was five percentage points higher by 2pm that it was at the same time four years ago.Which leads me to wonder: much is written about apathy in western democracies, and how we don't vote in the number we used to. But perhaps the last three years of crisis have galvanised electorates somewhat. Thoughts people?Updated at 3.41pm BST 3.23pm BST First things first: the pecking order. Merkel's CDU have won the past two elections and are likely to get around two in five votes tonight, putting her in pole position to form another government. The SPD, a centre left party, is predicted to get around 25% - but it's what happens after that that gets interesting.The lefter left Linke group could well end up as the third largest party, ahead of the Greens and FDP, a liberal party, which have both endured miserable campaigns.The biggest imponderable is perhaps whether the AfD, an anti-euro party, makes it into parliament. Read what Josie Le Blond discovered about this maverick new group on the German scene. The other question we'll be looking to answer soon after 6pm CET (1600 GMT) is whether the FDP get more than 5% of the votes, which would enable Merkel to persist with the current coalition. More of the same would be greeted with relief on financial markets - but hefty sighs from Mediterranean countries tired of Berlin-inflicted austerity. An epic fail by the FDP would probably mean the SPD joining Merkel in a grand coalition. And that could have intriguing implications, as Philip Oltermann argued at the end of last week in this piece. 3.03pm BST Don't you just love election night? There is nothing quite like it for drama, upset and late-night suspense. Apart from perhaps an England-Germany semifinal that ends in a penalty shootout. But let's not go there. Tonight there will be German winners again, I can confidently report, but also some German losers too, so it might be worth staying tuned for that. Schadenfreude and Weltschmerz in equal measure.As for outcomes, this is both a foregone conclusion and gloriously unpredictable. Angela Merkel's CDU-CSU grouping will win. There are few doubts about that. But with enough margin? And who will she try to partner with in government? That, and not to be or not to be, is the question tonight.Now then, a confession: I'm actually 1,000 miles away from the action, but don't let that deter you. I did once work on a building site in West Germany and also spent a dismal night sleeping rough in Berlin in 1989, so I know a thing or two about Teutonic triumph and disaster. Well disaster at least. And we have our correspondents, Kate Connolly and Philip Oltermann, ready to feed us their election night nuggets of wisdom. There's a fancy vote counter coming soon, if I can manage to embed the thing, and lots of reaction from around the party HQs in Berlin.Updated at 3.24pm BST", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany election results  "},{"date": "2013-09-22T22:04:52Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Keep tight hold of \"Mutti\". That was the message from German voters on Sunday as Angela Merkel \u2013 the nation's \"Mummy\" to her image makers \u2013 secured a stunning personal triumph at the polls that consolidates her unchallenged claim to be the dominant political leader in modern economic-crisis-riven Europe. Since the financial crisis struck the global economy in 2008, European voters have thrown out incumbent government after incumbent government, whether of the left, the centre or the right. But Mrs Merkel and her CDU/CSU centre-right party have bucked the anti-incumbency trend not once but twice. Mrs Merkel was first elected in 2005, forming a coalition with the ousted centre-left SPD. In 2009, she hung on to power even though the CDU/CSU vote had dipped, forming a coalition with the resurgent liberal FDP. Now, four years later, she has not so much hung on to power, as she did in 2009, as hugely increased her grip on it.Whatever the final share of the vote and seats, this election has been a massive endorsement for Mrs Merkel. The exit polls will doubtless move around a little before the final tallies of vote share and Bundestag seats are settled, and coalition options, if any, can be definitively considered. But with that important proviso, this is about as dominant a result as Mrs Merkel could have dreamed of, far better than the opinion polls were suggesting even at the end of last week. Her party seems likely to end up with 42%-43%, an increase of 10 points on four years ago, and the centre-right's best result since Helmut Kohl triumphed in the first post-reunification election in 1990.If, as seemed possible on Sunday night, only four parties win representation in the new Bundestag by topping the 5% threshold, Mrs Merkel may even have secured an overall majority, enabling the CDU/CSU to govern alone, not in coalition, for the first time since Konrad Adenauer in 1957. Bear in mind, at the same time, that Mrs Merkel's personal popularity runs far ahead of that of her party, and it becomes clear that we are witnessing a rare moment of indubitable political ascendancy in a continent where weak governments are the norm, not least in Britain.The centre-left Social Democrats may come out of this election as a junior coalition partner in a left-right \"grand coalition\" with Mrs Merkel. That would be a welcome move. They also slightly raised their share of the vote from the lamentable 23% of 2009 to 25%-26% this time. In every other respect, however, the SPD has little to celebrate. It is clear that the party's problems go deeper than just the gaffe-prone chancellor candidacy of Peer Steinbr\u00fcck. The SPD's programme of increased taxes on the wealthy and the middle classes failed to capture the mood of modern Germany. There will, and should, undoubtedly be a profound period of reflection on the German centre-left about the party's failure to win much more than a quarter of the electorate. The resilience of the Green vote and that of the Left party, though both lost support while the SPD gained a little, will surely lead to speculation about realignment. All this should be watched very attentively by centre-left politicians in this country, who face many of the same problems.The big loser in 2013 is the liberal FDP, which was on course on Sunday night to fail to cross the 5% threshold for the first time in 60 years, after winning nearly 15% four years ago. That failure is surely a verdict on the FDP's free-market programme, something that Mrs Merkel has scrupulously resisted in her own, nominally more rightwing party. It also seems clear that the growing fragmentation of party loyalties in German politics \u2013 in which the anti-eurozone-bailout AfD (Alternative f\u00fcr Deutschland) looked like falling just short of the threshold too \u2013 has damaged the FDP as well.The net result, though, is unmistakable. Germans have given Mrs Merkel a strong mandate to govern Germany. But the way she uses her new power will affect not just Germany, important though that is, but the whole of Europe \u2013 and that includes us here in Britain. This is the Age of Merkel.", "tags": ["Angela Merkel", "Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany: the Age of Merkel | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-08-18T20:11:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Next month's German general election will naturally have most impact in Germany itself. But the rest of Europe's politicians are watching the German campaign very closely too \u2013 and so should Europe's peoples. This is partly because a prosperous and growing Germany is a more dominant player than ever in today's EU. But it is also because the choice that Germans make on 22 September will directly affect us all, whether we are members of the eurozone or not. The list of interested parties therefore includes Britain.David Cameron has three particular reasons for wanting Chancellor Angela Merkel's centre-right CDU to be re-elected next month. The first is that, in spite of real differences over what it means to be a centre-right party in 21st-century Europe, the CDU and the Conservatives remain sister parties. They have become distanced, notably because of Tory Euroscepticism \u2013 not shared by the CDU \u2013 and by Mr Cameron's withdrawal of the Tories from the European People's party grouping. But the Tories clearly have even less in common with the CDU's principal rivals, the Social Democratic party of Germany (SPD).Mr Cameron's second reason is that it would be good news for incumbents like him. For a while, after the 2008 financial crisis, European voters simply took it out on incumbent governments \u2013 whatever their political stripe. Brown and Zapatero on the left, Berlusconi and Sarkozy on the right \u2013 all lost out. If Mrs Merkel manages to buck the trend, not least in the wake of her commitment to economic austerity and deficit reduction, the Tories will see light at the end of their own tunnel too.But Mr Cameron's principal reason for wanting a CDU victory next month is that a re-elected Mrs Merkel would be pivotal to his own EU strategy if he, too, secures re-election in 2015. Last week, in an important interview, Mrs Merkel signalled that, if re-elected, she is willing to look at EU moves to \"give something back\" to member states. This is what Mr Cameron says he wants to do too, so that he can offer British voters a renegotiated relationship with the EU to approve in his 2017 referendum. If reports are to be believed, two areas on which the UK and Germany might agree are migrant benefits and labour market regulation.The upshot of all this is deeply paradoxical. Tories like Mr Cameron, who want to stay in the EU after renegotiations of the sort which the German leader seems now to be sanctioning, will obviously want Mrs Merkel to be re-elected. But there are few things the Tories' out-and-out anti-Europeans should fear more than a German chancellor willing to make concessions to keep the UK in the EU. For anti-EU Tories, nothing would be worse than Mrs Merkel's re-election and the boost it might give to an eventual yes vote in a UK referendum.", "tags": ["David Cameron", "Germany", "European Union", "Politics"], "title": "David Cameron: gambling on Germany | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-07-09T12:59:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Like any other city, Berlin is not immune to the floods of developers' cash that can wash away historical buildings, streets and communities that somehow survived Speer's grand plans, British bombs and Russian tanks, leaving bland, globalist dross in their wake. Resistance against the rising tide of upmarket towers and gentrification is widely manifest, from graffiti telling yuppies to clear off, to locals uniting to defend remnants of the Berlin Wall rather than let developers conquer them with flats.Not far south of the Brandenburg Gate, on the semi-surburban street of Wilhelmstrasse, stands a building that could be an unremarkable 1900s apartment block yet has stood strong against all creeds of religious and political violence, and now flourishes in loving, glorious colour. This five-storey building is enveloped, from the lawns round its sides to the roof, in a massive, gorgeously surreal mural of a huge sky. On one side is painted a ziggurat of TVs, displaying events ranging from ice hockey to a man slipping on dog poo. On the other side the bright sky sucks up the surrounding conurbation while on the front, a man with a massive spliff falls from the clouds.This is Tommy Weisbecker Haus, a squat named after the 23-year-old anarchist killed by West German police on 2 March 1972. Weisbecker had been part of a militant group at the heart of the violent maelstrom that beset West Germany in the 1960s and 1970s, when government crackdowns on leftwing protests left many young people feeling the state was run by unreconstructed Nazis in hock to the US. Resistance escalated to bombing and shooting US military bases and high-ranking state officials, a movement for whose members the Haus \u2013 once a convent and hospice \u2013 would be a stronghold. This, in a half-city surrounded by Soviet troops and run by lethally skittish authorities, was defiance indeed.For all that, the Haus passed its 40th anniversary this year and has matured and mellowed into a co-operative in which no single political standpoint dominates. It's now respectable enough to be marked out not for police attention but for tourists up the Berliner FernstehenTurm \u2013 although, as I was politely reminded, it's also a home - a Haus that, now in its prime, will reach three score and 10 thanks to a new 30-year lease.Still, there's room for youthful largesse. As I turn for one last look at the Haus, beneath the painted spliff I\u00a0glimpse a sign in a\u00a0bedroom window proclaiming \"FUCK YOU\".Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Germany"], "title": "Letter from Germany: Tommy's house"},{"date": "2013-12-13T15:18:30Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Three months of political deadlock in Germany could come to an end on Saturday evening when the Social Democratic party will announce the result of a ballot of its members on entering a coalition with Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats.If party members vote in favour of a \"grand coalition\", the ballot will be remembered as a bold, high-risk experiment in direct democracy. A no vote, however, could tip Germany \u2013 and with it the eurozone \u2013 into turmoil.The SPD's 470,000 members had until Thursday night to post their ballot paper, and it is widely expected that the majority of votes are positive. According to a poll for the ZDF television channel, 80% of party members expect a grand coalition to happen.But the outcome is by no means certain: the SPD's youth organisation, which accounts for 55,000 members, has passionately opposed the deal, and influential party members such as the authors G\u00fcnter Grass and Bernhard Schlink have written articles urging a no vote. Many worry that the party is losing its leftwing credentials and will be punished by voters at the next election, as it was after the last grand coalition in 2009.If all goes well, the coalition agreement will be signed on Monday, Merkel will be sworn in as chancellor on Tuesday and will make a speech in the Bundestag on Wednesday. If the coalition treaty is voted down, however, it would lead to nothing short of a national crisis.Negotiations on the future of the eurozone, already effectively in limbo since the start of the election campaign, would be further stalled. Borrowing rates for Spain and Italy would probably go up. And there would be only an interim chancellor to attend the EU summit in Brussels on Thursday.The SPD party leaders Sigmar Gabriel and Andrea Nahles would be expected to resign, and Merkel would go back to trying to coax the Green party into a coalition. If that failed, the president would call new elections.Yet over the last few weeks many Social Democrats have begun grudgingly to admire Gabriel's decision to put the coalition agreement to the vote, according to Michael Miebach, deputy director of the Progressives Zentrum thinktank.\"It looks more and more like an ingenious chess move that solves several problems at once. Instead of debating the disastrous election result or even the detail of the coalition deal, everyone's talking about the ballot,\" Miebach said. \"It will keep in check party rebels who complain that they weren't asked, and it has proved a useful tool during the negotiations with Merkel. But of course, it could still all end in disaster.\"Many in Germany have criticised the SPD leadership for \"moving political decision-making outside of parliament\", as Die Welt put it. The CDU politician Wolfgang Bosbach said calls for more direct democracy were \"highly popular\" but also \"highly problematic\", because they could strengthen populist tendencies.But membership ballots and referendums are becoming increasingly common in Germany. The Social Democrats have found an unlikely ally in the CSU, the Bavarian sister party of the CDU, which has been lobbying for party ballots on key policies. Its leader, Horst Seehofer, argued that banning ballots would be disastrous since \"then we'd have even fewer people deciding over the fate of German democracy\".In recent years there have been local referendums on the Winter Olympics in Munich, on a train station extension in Stuttgart and on renationalising the energy grid in Berlin and Hamburg. A negative result on Saturday could still the appetite for more direct democracy; a positive outcome could increase the hunger for more.", "tags": ["Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany awaits ballot verdict on grand coalition"},{"date": "2013-12-13T15:18:30Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Three months of political deadlock in Germany could come to an end on Saturday evening when the Social Democratic party will announce the result of a ballot of its members on entering a coalition with Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats.If party members vote in favour of a \"grand coalition\", the ballot will be remembered as a bold, high-risk experiment in direct democracy. A no vote, however, could tip Germany \u2013 and with it the eurozone \u2013 into turmoil.The SPD's 470,000 members had until Thursday night to post their ballot paper, and it is widely expected that the majority of votes are positive. According to a poll for the ZDF television channel, 80% of party members expect a grand coalition to happen.But the outcome is by no means certain: the SPD's youth organisation, which accounts for 55,000 members, has passionately opposed the deal, and influential party members such as the authors G\u00fcnter Grass and Bernhard Schlink have written articles urging a no vote. Many worry that the party is losing its leftwing credentials and will be punished by voters at the next election, as it was after the last grand coalition in 2009.If all goes well, the coalition agreement will be signed on Monday, Merkel will be sworn in as chancellor on Tuesday and will make a speech in the Bundestag on Wednesday. If the coalition treaty is voted down, however, it would lead to nothing short of a national crisis.Negotiations on the future of the eurozone, already effectively in limbo since the start of the election campaign, would be further stalled. Borrowing rates for Spain and Italy would probably go up. And there would be only an interim chancellor to attend the EU summit in Brussels on Thursday.The SPD party leaders Sigmar Gabriel and Andrea Nahles would be expected to resign, and Merkel would go back to trying to coax the Green party into a coalition. If that failed, the president would call new elections.Yet over the last few weeks many Social Democrats have begun grudgingly to admire Gabriel's decision to put the coalition agreement to the vote, according to Michael Miebach, deputy director of the Progressives Zentrum thinktank.\"It looks more and more like an ingenious chess move that solves several problems at once. Instead of debating the disastrous election result or even the detail of the coalition deal, everyone's talking about the ballot,\" Miebach said. \"It will keep in check party rebels who complain that they weren't asked, and it has proved a useful tool during the negotiations with Merkel. But of course, it could still all end in disaster.\"Many in Germany have criticised the SPD leadership for \"moving political decision-making outside of parliament\", as Die Welt put it. The CDU politician Wolfgang Bosbach said calls for more direct democracy were \"highly popular\" but also \"highly problematic\", because they could strengthen populist tendencies.But membership ballots and referendums are becoming increasingly common in Germany. The Social Democrats have found an unlikely ally in the CSU, the Bavarian sister party of the CDU, which has been lobbying for party ballots on key policies. Its leader, Horst Seehofer, argued that banning ballots would be disastrous since \"then we'd have even fewer people deciding over the fate of German democracy\".In recent years there have been local referendums on the Winter Olympics in Munich, on a train station extension in Stuttgart and on renationalising the energy grid in Berlin and Hamburg. A negative result on Saturday could still the appetite for more direct democracy; a positive outcome could increase the hunger for more.", "tags": ["Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany awaits ballot verdict on grand coalition"},{"date": "2013-11-28T22:18:20Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Two months on from September's general election, Angela Merkel's centre-right CDU-CSU finally signed a pact this week with their main rival, Sigmar Gabriel's centre-left SPD, to form Germany's third postwar grand coalition. As a general rule, a securely based German government is good for Germany, good for Europe and good for Britain. So, what's not to welcome about this week's agreement?More than you might think. The coalition-building process set in motion by September's election provides a first note of caution. Those elections were a major vote of confidence in Mrs Merkel, but left her just short of an overall majority in the Bundestag. As a result, she has had to make significant concessions to entice the SPD into a pact in which they are more clearly a junior partner than in the grand coalitions of 1966 or 2005. An unprecedented ballot of SPD members will now decide if the new coalition goes ahead. The outcome is not a given. The political fragility of the new arrangements is not a good starting point.Another concern is the extent to which the 185-page coalition agreement addresses Germany's real problems. With its ageing population, Germany ought to be investing more in its young people. Instead the agreement rewards the elderly at the expense of the young, cutting the pension age at a time when most of Europe is raising it, and boosting pensions.Nor is there much in the agreement to suggest the arrival of the SPD will mean a better deal for Germany's economically hard-pressed southern eurozone allies. The Merkel-Gabriel deal has plenty of largesse for German workers and claimants \u2013 the new minimum wage will be worth 70p an hour more than its equivalent in Britain \u2013 but little relief for Greek, Spanish and Portuguese unemployed workers whose governments hoped a right-left coalition would cut them some slack on fiscal austerity.From a British perspective, the new government also presents an uncertain picture. The often pragmatic Mrs Merkel is potentially the key to striking a deal that will enable David Cameron, if re-elected, to recommend \u2013 as he should \u2013 that the UK remains in the EU. But the SPD has yet to show it understands the case for more flexible post-crash thinking about the EU, not just in relation to Britain. The parties of Europe need to listen to one another with a lot of care and respect if they are to help our continent through these difficult times.It will have taken three months to form Germany's new government by the time things are sorted. The lesson that coalitions take time to be formed needs to be learned here too. For this German government matters more than most. It has the future not just of Germany but of Europe in its hands. The third Merkel government will also shape Britain's future. It carries not just hopes, but huge responsibilities.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Angela Merkel"], "title": "Germany: not yet the real deal"},{"date": "2013-12-13T15:18:30Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Three months of political deadlock in Germany could come to an end on Saturday evening when the Social Democratic party will announce the result of a ballot of its members on entering a coalition with Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats.If party members vote in favour of a \"grand coalition\", the ballot will be remembered as a bold, high-risk experiment in direct democracy. A no vote, however, could tip Germany \u2013 and with it the eurozone \u2013 into turmoil.The SPD's 470,000 members had until Thursday night to post their ballot paper, and it is widely expected that the majority of votes are positive. According to a poll for the ZDF television channel, 80% of party members expect a grand coalition to happen.But the outcome is by no means certain: the SPD's youth organisation, which accounts for 55,000 members, has passionately opposed the deal, and influential party members such as the authors G\u00fcnter Grass and Bernhard Schlink have written articles urging a no vote. Many worry that the party is losing its leftwing credentials and will be punished by voters at the next election, as it was after the last grand coalition in 2009.If all goes well, the coalition agreement will be signed on Monday, Merkel will be sworn in as chancellor on Tuesday and will make a speech in the Bundestag on Wednesday. If the coalition treaty is voted down, however, it would lead to nothing short of a national crisis.Negotiations on the future of the eurozone, already effectively in limbo since the start of the election campaign, would be further stalled. Borrowing rates for Spain and Italy would probably go up. And there would be only an interim chancellor to attend the EU summit in Brussels on Thursday.The SPD party leaders Sigmar Gabriel and Andrea Nahles would be expected to resign, and Merkel would go back to trying to coax the Green party into a coalition. If that failed, the president would call new elections.Yet over the last few weeks many Social Democrats have begun grudgingly to admire Gabriel's decision to put the coalition agreement to the vote, according to Michael Miebach, deputy director of the Progressives Zentrum thinktank.\"It looks more and more like an ingenious chess move that solves several problems at once. Instead of debating the disastrous election result or even the detail of the coalition deal, everyone's talking about the ballot,\" Miebach said. \"It will keep in check party rebels who complain that they weren't asked, and it has proved a useful tool during the negotiations with Merkel. But of course, it could still all end in disaster.\"Many in Germany have criticised the SPD leadership for \"moving political decision-making outside of parliament\", as Die Welt put it. The CDU politician Wolfgang Bosbach said calls for more direct democracy were \"highly popular\" but also \"highly problematic\", because they could strengthen populist tendencies.But membership ballots and referendums are becoming increasingly common in Germany. The Social Democrats have found an unlikely ally in the CSU, the Bavarian sister party of the CDU, which has been lobbying for party ballots on key policies. Its leader, Horst Seehofer, argued that banning ballots would be disastrous since \"then we'd have even fewer people deciding over the fate of German democracy\".In recent years there have been local referendums on the Winter Olympics in Munich, on a train station extension in Stuttgart and on renationalising the energy grid in Berlin and Hamburg. A negative result on Saturday could still the appetite for more direct democracy; a positive outcome could increase the hunger for more.", "tags": ["Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany awaits ballot verdict on grand coalition"},{"date": "2013-11-28T22:18:20Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Two months on from September's general election, Angela Merkel's centre-right CDU-CSU finally signed a pact this week with their main rival, Sigmar Gabriel's centre-left SPD, to form Germany's third postwar grand coalition. As a general rule, a securely based German government is good for Germany, good for Europe and good for Britain. So, what's not to welcome about this week's agreement?More than you might think. The coalition-building process set in motion by September's election provides a first note of caution. Those elections were a major vote of confidence in Mrs Merkel, but left her just short of an overall majority in the Bundestag. As a result, she has had to make significant concessions to entice the SPD into a pact in which they are more clearly a junior partner than in the grand coalitions of 1966 or 2005. An unprecedented ballot of SPD members will now decide if the new coalition goes ahead. The outcome is not a given. The political fragility of the new arrangements is not a good starting point.Another concern is the extent to which the 185-page coalition agreement addresses Germany's real problems. With its ageing population, Germany ought to be investing more in its young people. Instead the agreement rewards the elderly at the expense of the young, cutting the pension age at a time when most of Europe is raising it, and boosting pensions.Nor is there much in the agreement to suggest the arrival of the SPD will mean a better deal for Germany's economically hard-pressed southern eurozone allies. The Merkel-Gabriel deal has plenty of largesse for German workers and claimants \u2013 the new minimum wage will be worth 70p an hour more than its equivalent in Britain \u2013 but little relief for Greek, Spanish and Portuguese unemployed workers whose governments hoped a right-left coalition would cut them some slack on fiscal austerity.From a British perspective, the new government also presents an uncertain picture. The often pragmatic Mrs Merkel is potentially the key to striking a deal that will enable David Cameron, if re-elected, to recommend \u2013 as he should \u2013 that the UK remains in the EU. But the SPD has yet to show it understands the case for more flexible post-crash thinking about the EU, not just in relation to Britain. The parties of Europe need to listen to one another with a lot of care and respect if they are to help our continent through these difficult times.It will have taken three months to form Germany's new government by the time things are sorted. The lesson that coalitions take time to be formed needs to be learned here too. For this German government matters more than most. It has the future not just of Germany but of Europe in its hands. The third Merkel government will also shape Britain's future. It carries not just hopes, but huge responsibilities.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Angela Merkel"], "title": "Germany: not yet the real deal"},{"date": "2013-10-06T16:38:46Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Online retailer Amazon may be facing strike action in Germany in the run-up to Christmas. The secretary of the German services union Verdi has told Der Spiegel magazine that Amazon \"shouldn't rely on being able to keep all their promises to customers before Christmas\" and that the union would call strikes when it would hurt the company most.Germany has had strikes by Amazon employees this year over wages. In June and September several hundred workers at the US company's distribution centres in Leipzig, Saxony and Bad Hersfeld in the Hesse region walked out. Verdi has around 2.2 million members and has said it wants to force Amazon to negotiate a collective wage agreement that complies with standards in the German retail sector. Amazon claims that the wages it pays are above average in the logistics industry. \"Job descriptions for staff are typical of the logistics industry such as the storage, packaging and dispatch of goods,\" a spokeswoman for Amazon Germany told Reuters. The spokeswoman added that the strikes in June and September had not affected customers.There is so far no detail on whether the strikes are planned again for the centres in Leipzig or Bad Hersfeld, or any other of the eight distribution centres in Germany.Amazon employs more than 9,000 in Germany but is reportedly considering opening five new centres in Poland and the Czech Republic.", "tags": ["Amazon.com", "Internet", "E-commerce", "Technology", "Work & careers", "Money", "Business"], "title": "Amazon facing strikes over pay in Germany"},{"date": "2013-12-13T15:18:30Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Three months of political deadlock in Germany could come to an end on Saturday evening when the Social Democratic party will announce the result of a ballot of its members on entering a coalition with Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats.If party members vote in favour of a \"grand coalition\", the ballot will be remembered as a bold, high-risk experiment in direct democracy. A no vote, however, could tip Germany \u2013 and with it the eurozone \u2013 into turmoil.The SPD's 470,000 members had until Thursday night to post their ballot paper, and it is widely expected that the majority of votes are positive. According to a poll for the ZDF television channel, 80% of party members expect a grand coalition to happen.But the outcome is by no means certain: the SPD's youth organisation, which accounts for 55,000 members, has passionately opposed the deal, and influential party members such as the authors G\u00fcnter Grass and Bernhard Schlink have written articles urging a no vote. Many worry that the party is losing its leftwing credentials and will be punished by voters at the next election, as it was after the last grand coalition in 2009.If all goes well, the coalition agreement will be signed on Monday, Merkel will be sworn in as chancellor on Tuesday and will make a speech in the Bundestag on Wednesday. If the coalition treaty is voted down, however, it would lead to nothing short of a national crisis.Negotiations on the future of the eurozone, already effectively in limbo since the start of the election campaign, would be further stalled. Borrowing rates for Spain and Italy would probably go up. And there would be only an interim chancellor to attend the EU summit in Brussels on Thursday.The SPD party leaders Sigmar Gabriel and Andrea Nahles would be expected to resign, and Merkel would go back to trying to coax the Green party into a coalition. If that failed, the president would call new elections.Yet over the last few weeks many Social Democrats have begun grudgingly to admire Gabriel's decision to put the coalition agreement to the vote, according to Michael Miebach, deputy director of the Progressives Zentrum thinktank.\"It looks more and more like an ingenious chess move that solves several problems at once. Instead of debating the disastrous election result or even the detail of the coalition deal, everyone's talking about the ballot,\" Miebach said. \"It will keep in check party rebels who complain that they weren't asked, and it has proved a useful tool during the negotiations with Merkel. But of course, it could still all end in disaster.\"Many in Germany have criticised the SPD leadership for \"moving political decision-making outside of parliament\", as Die Welt put it. The CDU politician Wolfgang Bosbach said calls for more direct democracy were \"highly popular\" but also \"highly problematic\", because they could strengthen populist tendencies.But membership ballots and referendums are becoming increasingly common in Germany. The Social Democrats have found an unlikely ally in the CSU, the Bavarian sister party of the CDU, which has been lobbying for party ballots on key policies. Its leader, Horst Seehofer, argued that banning ballots would be disastrous since \"then we'd have even fewer people deciding over the fate of German democracy\".In recent years there have been local referendums on the Winter Olympics in Munich, on a train station extension in Stuttgart and on renationalising the energy grid in Berlin and Hamburg. A negative result on Saturday could still the appetite for more direct democracy; a positive outcome could increase the hunger for more.", "tags": ["Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany awaits ballot verdict on grand coalition"},{"date": "2013-11-28T22:18:20Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Two months on from September's general election, Angela Merkel's centre-right CDU-CSU finally signed a pact this week with their main rival, Sigmar Gabriel's centre-left SPD, to form Germany's third postwar grand coalition. As a general rule, a securely based German government is good for Germany, good for Europe and good for Britain. So, what's not to welcome about this week's agreement?More than you might think. The coalition-building process set in motion by September's election provides a first note of caution. Those elections were a major vote of confidence in Mrs Merkel, but left her just short of an overall majority in the Bundestag. As a result, she has had to make significant concessions to entice the SPD into a pact in which they are more clearly a junior partner than in the grand coalitions of 1966 or 2005. An unprecedented ballot of SPD members will now decide if the new coalition goes ahead. The outcome is not a given. The political fragility of the new arrangements is not a good starting point.Another concern is the extent to which the 185-page coalition agreement addresses Germany's real problems. With its ageing population, Germany ought to be investing more in its young people. Instead the agreement rewards the elderly at the expense of the young, cutting the pension age at a time when most of Europe is raising it, and boosting pensions.Nor is there much in the agreement to suggest the arrival of the SPD will mean a better deal for Germany's economically hard-pressed southern eurozone allies. The Merkel-Gabriel deal has plenty of largesse for German workers and claimants \u2013 the new minimum wage will be worth 70p an hour more than its equivalent in Britain \u2013 but little relief for Greek, Spanish and Portuguese unemployed workers whose governments hoped a right-left coalition would cut them some slack on fiscal austerity.From a British perspective, the new government also presents an uncertain picture. The often pragmatic Mrs Merkel is potentially the key to striking a deal that will enable David Cameron, if re-elected, to recommend \u2013 as he should \u2013 that the UK remains in the EU. But the SPD has yet to show it understands the case for more flexible post-crash thinking about the EU, not just in relation to Britain. The parties of Europe need to listen to one another with a lot of care and respect if they are to help our continent through these difficult times.It will have taken three months to form Germany's new government by the time things are sorted. The lesson that coalitions take time to be formed needs to be learned here too. For this German government matters more than most. It has the future not just of Germany but of Europe in its hands. The third Merkel government will also shape Britain's future. It carries not just hopes, but huge responsibilities.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Angela Merkel"], "title": "Germany: not yet the real deal"},{"date": "2013-10-06T16:38:46Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Online retailer Amazon may be facing strike action in Germany in the run-up to Christmas. The secretary of the German services union Verdi has told Der Spiegel magazine that Amazon \"shouldn't rely on being able to keep all their promises to customers before Christmas\" and that the union would call strikes when it would hurt the company most.Germany has had strikes by Amazon employees this year over wages. In June and September several hundred workers at the US company's distribution centres in Leipzig, Saxony and Bad Hersfeld in the Hesse region walked out. Verdi has around 2.2 million members and has said it wants to force Amazon to negotiate a collective wage agreement that complies with standards in the German retail sector. Amazon claims that the wages it pays are above average in the logistics industry. \"Job descriptions for staff are typical of the logistics industry such as the storage, packaging and dispatch of goods,\" a spokeswoman for Amazon Germany told Reuters. The spokeswoman added that the strikes in June and September had not affected customers.There is so far no detail on whether the strikes are planned again for the centres in Leipzig or Bad Hersfeld, or any other of the eight distribution centres in Germany.Amazon employs more than 9,000 in Germany but is reportedly considering opening five new centres in Poland and the Czech Republic.", "tags": ["Amazon.com", "Internet", "E-commerce", "Technology", "Work & careers", "Money", "Business"], "title": "Amazon facing strikes over pay in Germany"},{"date": "2013-12-20T17:51:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The former Russian oligarch Mikhail Khodorkovsky has arrived in Germany after his surprise pardon by the president, Vladimir Putin, bringing an end to more than a decade behind bars.On Friday afternoon the German foreign office confirmed that Khodorkovsky had arrived in Berlin, where he was met by former foreign minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher, who helped to organise his chartered flight. The German embassy in Moscow had facilitated the trip, reportedly by fast-tracking his visa application.Genscher told Der Spiegel that Khodorkovsky was \"exhausted, but very happy to finally be free\".Khodorkovsky released a statement via Facebook saying that he had asked the Russian president to pardon him for personal reasons and was glad of the positive decision. He emphasised, however, that \"the issue of admission of guilt was not raised\". He personally thanked Genscher for his support and spoke of how much he was looking forward to \"the minute when I will be able to hug my close ones and personally shake hands with all my friends and associates\".Various reports claim that Khodorkovsky has travelled straight from the airport to the nearby Charit\u00e9 Campus Virchow clinic, where his mother Marina had been treated for cancer before being discharged on 11 December. A spokesperson from the clinic declined to comment.Genscher said that in the rush of his release, Khodorkovsky hadn't realised that his mother was already back in Russia, but that she was planning to travel to Berlin on Saturday to meet him.Marina Khodorkovsky told Reuters on Friday she was ready to fly anywhere to meet her son. \"I want to just hug him. I don't even yet what I am going to say to him,\" she said.It is unclear whether Khodorkovsky will stay in Germany or travel on to Switzerland, as some media outlets have reported.The plane that Khodorkovsky travelled in to Berlin was owned by the German businessman Ulrich Bettermann. Bettermann, Genscher and Khodorkovsky met at an event at Berlin's Hotel Adlon in 2003, where Khodorkovsky had spoken highly critically about corruption and party finances in Russia.Putin made the surprise announcement on Thursday that he planned to pardon Khodorkovsky, who was regarded by Kremlin critics as a political prisoner. The Russian president signed the decree \u2013 which pardoned Khodorkovsky on the basis of \"the principles of humanism\" \u2013 on Friday morning.The former oligarch, who became a staunch Kremlin critic after being convicted of economic crimes in trials that many believe were politically motivated, was seen as a potential political threat to Putin if released.Hans-Dietrich Genscher's spokesperson Nicola Maier released a statement (in German) welcoming Putin's decision, describing it as \"significant and very encouraging\". The statement revealed that Genscher had met Putin in person twice to talk about Khodorkovsky, and that he had been aided in his efforts by chancellor Angela Merkel, the former German foreign minister and ambassador in Moscow. Merkel's spokesperson said: \"The chancellor welcomes Mikhail Khodorkovsky's release. Over the last few years she has repeatedly lobbied the Russian president for Mr Khodorkovsky's release.\"German foreign minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier also welcomed Khodorkovsky's release as \"a good sign\" that Russia was prepared to have a conversation about human rights. There was an \"obvious link\" between timing of the release and the upcoming Sochi Winter Games, he said.Opposition-linked political analyst Dmitry Oreshkin said there was no need to see anything other than purely cynical motives in Putin's decision to free Khodorkovsky. He said: \"Putin has seen that there is a real problem with his and Russia's image in the west, and the Olympic Games are coming. This was a carefully planned decision timed to happen just before Christmas, so everybody could write about it, think how great it is, and then forget about it in the new year.\"Oreshkin noted that Khodorkovsky's sentence was due to come to an end in nine months anyway, and said he was sure that Russian officials had \"given him no option\" but to ask for a pardon.\"Previously, Khodorkovsky has always refused to ask for a pardon, as it would suggest he recognises the legitimacy of the system and of the court cases against him. Whether they threatened him with a new case and a further seven or eight years in prison, or whether it was a statement about his mother's failing health, who knows.\"", "tags": ["Mikhail Khodorkovsky", "Russia", "World news", "Europe", "Germany", "Vladimir Putin"], "title": "Mikhail Khodorkovsky arrives in Germany after release from prison"},{"date": "2013-12-13T15:18:30Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Three months of political deadlock in Germany could come to an end on Saturday evening when the Social Democratic party will announce the result of a ballot of its members on entering a coalition with Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats.If party members vote in favour of a \"grand coalition\", the ballot will be remembered as a bold, high-risk experiment in direct democracy. A no vote, however, could tip Germany \u2013 and with it the eurozone \u2013 into turmoil.The SPD's 470,000 members had until Thursday night to post their ballot paper, and it is widely expected that the majority of votes are positive. According to a poll for the ZDF television channel, 80% of party members expect a grand coalition to happen.But the outcome is by no means certain: the SPD's youth organisation, which accounts for 55,000 members, has passionately opposed the deal, and influential party members such as the authors G\u00fcnter Grass and Bernhard Schlink have written articles urging a no vote. Many worry that the party is losing its leftwing credentials and will be punished by voters at the next election, as it was after the last grand coalition in 2009.If all goes well, the coalition agreement will be signed on Monday, Merkel will be sworn in as chancellor on Tuesday and will make a speech in the Bundestag on Wednesday. If the coalition treaty is voted down, however, it would lead to nothing short of a national crisis.Negotiations on the future of the eurozone, already effectively in limbo since the start of the election campaign, would be further stalled. Borrowing rates for Spain and Italy would probably go up. And there would be only an interim chancellor to attend the EU summit in Brussels on Thursday.The SPD party leaders Sigmar Gabriel and Andrea Nahles would be expected to resign, and Merkel would go back to trying to coax the Green party into a coalition. If that failed, the president would call new elections.Yet over the last few weeks many Social Democrats have begun grudgingly to admire Gabriel's decision to put the coalition agreement to the vote, according to Michael Miebach, deputy director of the Progressives Zentrum thinktank.\"It looks more and more like an ingenious chess move that solves several problems at once. Instead of debating the disastrous election result or even the detail of the coalition deal, everyone's talking about the ballot,\" Miebach said. \"It will keep in check party rebels who complain that they weren't asked, and it has proved a useful tool during the negotiations with Merkel. But of course, it could still all end in disaster.\"Many in Germany have criticised the SPD leadership for \"moving political decision-making outside of parliament\", as Die Welt put it. The CDU politician Wolfgang Bosbach said calls for more direct democracy were \"highly popular\" but also \"highly problematic\", because they could strengthen populist tendencies.But membership ballots and referendums are becoming increasingly common in Germany. The Social Democrats have found an unlikely ally in the CSU, the Bavarian sister party of the CDU, which has been lobbying for party ballots on key policies. Its leader, Horst Seehofer, argued that banning ballots would be disastrous since \"then we'd have even fewer people deciding over the fate of German democracy\".In recent years there have been local referendums on the Winter Olympics in Munich, on a train station extension in Stuttgart and on renationalising the energy grid in Berlin and Hamburg. A negative result on Saturday could still the appetite for more direct democracy; a positive outcome could increase the hunger for more.", "tags": ["Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany awaits ballot verdict on grand coalition"},{"date": "2013-11-28T22:18:20Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Two months on from September's general election, Angela Merkel's centre-right CDU-CSU finally signed a pact this week with their main rival, Sigmar Gabriel's centre-left SPD, to form Germany's third postwar grand coalition. As a general rule, a securely based German government is good for Germany, good for Europe and good for Britain. So, what's not to welcome about this week's agreement?More than you might think. The coalition-building process set in motion by September's election provides a first note of caution. Those elections were a major vote of confidence in Mrs Merkel, but left her just short of an overall majority in the Bundestag. As a result, she has had to make significant concessions to entice the SPD into a pact in which they are more clearly a junior partner than in the grand coalitions of 1966 or 2005. An unprecedented ballot of SPD members will now decide if the new coalition goes ahead. The outcome is not a given. The political fragility of the new arrangements is not a good starting point.Another concern is the extent to which the 185-page coalition agreement addresses Germany's real problems. With its ageing population, Germany ought to be investing more in its young people. Instead the agreement rewards the elderly at the expense of the young, cutting the pension age at a time when most of Europe is raising it, and boosting pensions.Nor is there much in the agreement to suggest the arrival of the SPD will mean a better deal for Germany's economically hard-pressed southern eurozone allies. The Merkel-Gabriel deal has plenty of largesse for German workers and claimants \u2013 the new minimum wage will be worth 70p an hour more than its equivalent in Britain \u2013 but little relief for Greek, Spanish and Portuguese unemployed workers whose governments hoped a right-left coalition would cut them some slack on fiscal austerity.From a British perspective, the new government also presents an uncertain picture. The often pragmatic Mrs Merkel is potentially the key to striking a deal that will enable David Cameron, if re-elected, to recommend \u2013 as he should \u2013 that the UK remains in the EU. But the SPD has yet to show it understands the case for more flexible post-crash thinking about the EU, not just in relation to Britain. The parties of Europe need to listen to one another with a lot of care and respect if they are to help our continent through these difficult times.It will have taken three months to form Germany's new government by the time things are sorted. The lesson that coalitions take time to be formed needs to be learned here too. For this German government matters more than most. It has the future not just of Germany but of Europe in its hands. The third Merkel government will also shape Britain's future. It carries not just hopes, but huge responsibilities.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Angela Merkel"], "title": "Germany: not yet the real deal"},{"date": "2013-10-06T16:38:46Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Online retailer Amazon may be facing strike action in Germany in the run-up to Christmas. The secretary of the German services union Verdi has told Der Spiegel magazine that Amazon \"shouldn't rely on being able to keep all their promises to customers before Christmas\" and that the union would call strikes when it would hurt the company most.Germany has had strikes by Amazon employees this year over wages. In June and September several hundred workers at the US company's distribution centres in Leipzig, Saxony and Bad Hersfeld in the Hesse region walked out. Verdi has around 2.2 million members and has said it wants to force Amazon to negotiate a collective wage agreement that complies with standards in the German retail sector. Amazon claims that the wages it pays are above average in the logistics industry. \"Job descriptions for staff are typical of the logistics industry such as the storage, packaging and dispatch of goods,\" a spokeswoman for Amazon Germany told Reuters. The spokeswoman added that the strikes in June and September had not affected customers.There is so far no detail on whether the strikes are planned again for the centres in Leipzig or Bad Hersfeld, or any other of the eight distribution centres in Germany.Amazon employs more than 9,000 in Germany but is reportedly considering opening five new centres in Poland and the Czech Republic.", "tags": ["Amazon.com", "Internet", "E-commerce", "Technology", "Work & careers", "Money", "Business"], "title": "Amazon facing strikes over pay in Germany"},{"date": "2013-12-20T17:51:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The former Russian oligarch Mikhail Khodorkovsky has arrived in Germany after his surprise pardon by the president, Vladimir Putin, bringing an end to more than a decade behind bars.On Friday afternoon the German foreign office confirmed that Khodorkovsky had arrived in Berlin, where he was met by former foreign minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher, who helped to organise his chartered flight. The German embassy in Moscow had facilitated the trip, reportedly by fast-tracking his visa application.Genscher told Der Spiegel that Khodorkovsky was \"exhausted, but very happy to finally be free\".Khodorkovsky released a statement via Facebook saying that he had asked the Russian president to pardon him for personal reasons and was glad of the positive decision. He emphasised, however, that \"the issue of admission of guilt was not raised\". He personally thanked Genscher for his support and spoke of how much he was looking forward to \"the minute when I will be able to hug my close ones and personally shake hands with all my friends and associates\".Various reports claim that Khodorkovsky has travelled straight from the airport to the nearby Charit\u00e9 Campus Virchow clinic, where his mother Marina had been treated for cancer before being discharged on 11 December. A spokesperson from the clinic declined to comment.Genscher said that in the rush of his release, Khodorkovsky hadn't realised that his mother was already back in Russia, but that she was planning to travel to Berlin on Saturday to meet him.Marina Khodorkovsky told Reuters on Friday she was ready to fly anywhere to meet her son. \"I want to just hug him. I don't even yet what I am going to say to him,\" she said.It is unclear whether Khodorkovsky will stay in Germany or travel on to Switzerland, as some media outlets have reported.The plane that Khodorkovsky travelled in to Berlin was owned by the German businessman Ulrich Bettermann. Bettermann, Genscher and Khodorkovsky met at an event at Berlin's Hotel Adlon in 2003, where Khodorkovsky had spoken highly critically about corruption and party finances in Russia.Putin made the surprise announcement on Thursday that he planned to pardon Khodorkovsky, who was regarded by Kremlin critics as a political prisoner. The Russian president signed the decree \u2013 which pardoned Khodorkovsky on the basis of \"the principles of humanism\" \u2013 on Friday morning.The former oligarch, who became a staunch Kremlin critic after being convicted of economic crimes in trials that many believe were politically motivated, was seen as a potential political threat to Putin if released.Hans-Dietrich Genscher's spokesperson Nicola Maier released a statement (in German) welcoming Putin's decision, describing it as \"significant and very encouraging\". The statement revealed that Genscher had met Putin in person twice to talk about Khodorkovsky, and that he had been aided in his efforts by chancellor Angela Merkel, the former German foreign minister and ambassador in Moscow. Merkel's spokesperson said: \"The chancellor welcomes Mikhail Khodorkovsky's release. Over the last few years she has repeatedly lobbied the Russian president for Mr Khodorkovsky's release.\"German foreign minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier also welcomed Khodorkovsky's release as \"a good sign\" that Russia was prepared to have a conversation about human rights. There was an \"obvious link\" between timing of the release and the upcoming Sochi Winter Games, he said.Opposition-linked political analyst Dmitry Oreshkin said there was no need to see anything other than purely cynical motives in Putin's decision to free Khodorkovsky. He said: \"Putin has seen that there is a real problem with his and Russia's image in the west, and the Olympic Games are coming. This was a carefully planned decision timed to happen just before Christmas, so everybody could write about it, think how great it is, and then forget about it in the new year.\"Oreshkin noted that Khodorkovsky's sentence was due to come to an end in nine months anyway, and said he was sure that Russian officials had \"given him no option\" but to ask for a pardon.\"Previously, Khodorkovsky has always refused to ask for a pardon, as it would suggest he recognises the legitimacy of the system and of the court cases against him. Whether they threatened him with a new case and a further seven or eight years in prison, or whether it was a statement about his mother's failing health, who knows.\"", "tags": ["Mikhail Khodorkovsky", "Russia", "World news", "Europe", "Germany", "Vladimir Putin"], "title": "Mikhail Khodorkovsky arrives in Germany after release from prison"},{"date": "2013-12-15T00:04:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The term GroKo was voted Germany's word of the year on Friday. A day later it was confirmed that a Grosse Koalition of the country's two biggest parties will provide the next government.Three-quarters of Social Democrat (SPD) members voted in favour of a coalition with Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU). The chancellor and her new ministers will be sworn in on 17 December \u2013 almost three months after the general election.The new government is one that Germans had been expecting and, according to several pre-election polls, has been longing for. If leaks to the press are to be believed, it will contain many familiar faces.During the coalition talks, the SPD had tried to claim the finance ministry, considered the most important post after the chancellory. However it now looks like Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, 71, will keep his job. A change of economic strategy in the eurozone, which would have been doubtful even under an SPD finance minister, therefore now looks highly unlikely.The foreign minister will again be Frank-Walter Steinmeier, who held the post from 2005 to 2009. As tensions between Russia and Europe run high over protests in the Ukraine, it will be interesting to see if Steinmeier will gain the relatively diplomatic approach to the Kremlin from his previous term in office.Criticism of Russia's human rights abuses was relatively rare in those days, with the emphasis on what Steinmeier called a \"modernising partnership\".Even SPD leader Sigmar Gabriel, who will become deputy chancellor as well as taking charge of energy and economic affairs, had a post as environment minister in the previous grand coalition. The only surprises are the fairly inexperienced new justice minister, Heiko Maas of the SPD, and that in the CDU's Ursula von der Leyen, Germany will have its first female defence minister. By insisting on letting his party membership vote on the coalition agreement, Gabriel had gained a strong hand in the coalition negotiations. \"Do you really think we'd get that past our members?\" was a strong counter to any of the Christian Democrats' more daring policy proposals.The coalition agreement, which was released on 27 November, contains pledges to introduce core SPD policies, such as the introduction of a minimum wage, rent controls in major cities including Hamburg, Munich and Berlin, and dual citizenship.But the party's youth wing and a number of senior figures had severely criticised the party for compromising on too many issues, and lobbied for a \"no\" in the membership ballot.The Social Democrats will hold six posts in the government. With Sigmar Gabriel and Barbara Hendricks, it will now provide both the energy and environment ministers: key posts, given that Germany's handling of the Energiewende, the pledge to phase out nuclear energy by 2022, has come increasingly under fire domestically, and is now the subject of a legal complaint from the EU.Supporters of the phase-out will view Hendricks sceptically, given that the 61-year-old social scientist hails from North-Rhine Westphalia, the region where the coal lobby is thought to hold most sway.Last week, it emerged that a first-time SPD policymaker and former mining union executive had managed to insert a clause into the coalition agreement committing to the use of lignite, or brown coal, one of the most polluting fossil fuels.", "tags": ["Germany", "Angela Merkel", "World news"], "title": "Everyone wins as Germany gets the coalition it longs for"},{"date": "2014-02-02T20:14:36Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has signalled it is preparing a third rescue package for Greece \u2013 provided the debt-stricken country implements \"rigorous\"austerity measures blamed for record levels of unemployment and a dramatic drop in GDP.The new loan, outlined in a five-page position paper by Berlin's finance ministry, would be worth between \u20ac10bn to \u20ac20bn (\u00a38bn-16bn), according to the German weekly Der Spiegel, which was leaked the document.Such an amount would chime with comments made by the German finance minister, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, who, in a separate interview due to be published on Monday insisted that any additional aid required by Athens would be \"far smaller\" than the \u20ac240bn it had received so far.\"What is sure is that any further aid would be much less expansive than whatever help [has been given] so far,\" he is quoted as telling the German finance magazine Wirtschaftswoche in what appears to be a calibrated move aimed at preparing public opinion.The renewed help follows revelations of clandestine talks between Sch\u00e4uble and leading EU figures over how to deal with Greece, which despite receiving the biggest bailout in global financial history, continues to remain the weakest link in the eurozone.The talks, said to have taken place on the sidelines of a Eurogroup meeting of eurozone finance ministers last week, are believed to have focused on the need to cover an impending shortfall in the country's financing and the reluctance Athens is displaying to enforce long overdue structural reforms. The lack of progress is at the root of stalled talks between Greece and its \"troika\" of creditors, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), European Central Bank and EU.Greece faces a financing gap of up to \u20ac15bn over the next two years, according to foreign creditors, which have kept its economy afloat since May 2010. As the EU's powerhouse, Berlin has bankrolled most of the emergency loans to date.But a German finance ministry spokesman, echoing similar statements by Sch\u00e4uble, denied that a further restructuring of Greece's staggering debt \u2013 this time by public creditors \u2013 was also on the cards.\"There is no new situation,\" said the spokesman referring to previous statements made by Sch\u00e4uble also rejecting the need for debt relief to be extended to recession-hit Greece.Most of the debt overhang now haunting the country belongs to European governments and at 176% of GDP \u2013 up from 120% of national output at the start of the crisis \u2013 is not only a barrier to investment but widely regarded as being at the root of its economic woes.\"They are missing the point: Greece does not need a third bailout, it needs debt restructuring,\" said the shadow development minister and economics professor, Giorgos Stathakis.\"Even in the IMF, logical people agree there is no way we can have any more fiscal adjustment when the whole thing has reached its limits,\" he said. \"There is simply no room for further cuts and further taxes and that is what they are going to ask for.\"He said the assistance was \"the wrong thing at the wrong time\". Unemployment is nudging 28% \u2013 and youth unemployment rate tops 60% \u2013 while economic recovery is still far from assured, despite the nation outperforming targets with the achievement of a primary budget surplus in 2013.The IMF has been increasingly at odds with Germany and other lenders over the need to write off Greece's debt. Confidential records, documenting minutes of meetings held to discuss the country's first bailout, reveal the level of discord among member states over the feasibility of the rescue programme. The IMF said last year that without additional debt relief by eurozone governments, Greece's debt burden could smother the country's economy.China, Brazil, Argentina, India, Egypt and Switzerland have been among the countries expressing grave doubts that the assistance would work, arguing that Greece might end up worse off after the austerity programme.", "tags": ["Germany", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial sector", "Business"], "title": "Germany preparing third financial rescue for Greece"},{"date": "2014-02-02T20:14:36Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has signalled it is preparing a third rescue package for Greece \u2013 provided the debt-stricken country implements \"rigorous\"austerity measures blamed for record levels of unemployment and a dramatic drop in GDP.The new loan, outlined in a five-page position paper by Berlin's finance ministry, would be worth between \u20ac10bn to \u20ac20bn (\u00a38bn-16bn), according to the German weekly Der Spiegel, which was leaked the document.Such an amount would chime with comments made by the German finance minister, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, who, in a separate interview due to be published on Monday insisted that any additional aid required by Athens would be \"far smaller\" than the \u20ac240bn it had received so far.\"What is sure is that any further aid would be much less expansive than whatever help [has been given] so far,\" he is quoted as telling the German finance magazine Wirtschaftswoche in what appears to be a calibrated move aimed at preparing public opinion.The renewed help follows revelations of clandestine talks between Sch\u00e4uble and leading EU figures over how to deal with Greece, which despite receiving the biggest bailout in global financial history, continues to remain the weakest link in the eurozone.The talks, said to have taken place on the sidelines of a Eurogroup meeting of eurozone finance ministers last week, are believed to have focused on the need to cover an impending shortfall in the country's financing and the reluctance Athens is displaying to enforce long overdue structural reforms. The lack of progress is at the root of stalled talks between Greece and its \"troika\" of creditors, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), European Central Bank and EU.Greece faces a financing gap of up to \u20ac15bn over the next two years, according to foreign creditors, which have kept its economy afloat since May 2010. As the EU's powerhouse, Berlin has bankrolled most of the emergency loans to date.But a German finance ministry spokesman, echoing similar statements by Sch\u00e4uble, denied that a further restructuring of Greece's staggering debt \u2013 this time by public creditors \u2013 was also on the cards.\"There is no new situation,\" said the spokesman referring to previous statements made by Sch\u00e4uble also rejecting the need for debt relief to be extended to recession-hit Greece.Most of the debt overhang now haunting the country belongs to European governments and at 176% of GDP \u2013 up from 120% of national output at the start of the crisis \u2013 is not only a barrier to investment but widely regarded as being at the root of its economic woes.\"They are missing the point: Greece does not need a third bailout, it needs debt restructuring,\" said the shadow development minister and economics professor, Giorgos Stathakis.\"Even in the IMF, logical people agree there is no way we can have any more fiscal adjustment when the whole thing has reached its limits,\" he said. \"There is simply no room for further cuts and further taxes and that is what they are going to ask for.\"He said the assistance was \"the wrong thing at the wrong time\". Unemployment is nudging 28% \u2013 and youth unemployment rate tops 60% \u2013 while economic recovery is still far from assured, despite the nation outperforming targets with the achievement of a primary budget surplus in 2013.The IMF has been increasingly at odds with Germany and other lenders over the need to write off Greece's debt. Confidential records, documenting minutes of meetings held to discuss the country's first bailout, reveal the level of discord among member states over the feasibility of the rescue programme. The IMF said last year that without additional debt relief by eurozone governments, Greece's debt burden could smother the country's economy.China, Brazil, Argentina, India, Egypt and Switzerland have been among the countries expressing grave doubts that the assistance would work, arguing that Greece might end up worse off after the austerity programme.", "tags": ["Germany", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial sector", "Business"], "title": "Germany preparing third financial rescue for Greece"},{"date": "2014-03-23T08:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "If Hitler were alive today, would he become a standup comic? Incredible though that may sound to anyone who lived through the second world war, that is the scenario sketched out in Look Who's Back, a satirical novel by Timur Vermes, which topped the bestseller lists in Germany after its publication in 2012 and is now about to be published in English.In the opening pages, Hitler wakes up on a building site in Berlin in 2011. His memory of how he got there is hazy: \"I think Eva and I chatted for a while, and I showed her my old pistol, but when I awoke I was unable to recall any further detail.\"The owner of a nearby kiosk recognises him \u2013 after all, 66 years after his death the man's face is still ubiquitous \u2013 and, assuming that Hitler is an extra from a new second world war film who is remaining resolutely in character (\"Bruno Ganz was superb, but he's not a patch on you\"), the kiosk owner hooks him up with a local comedy promoter.Hitler's first gig, the warm-up slot for a Turkish-German comic, goes down like a sinking U-boat. His dark rant about Muslims, abortion and plastic surgery has his audience gasping in shock. But gradually the performance gathers clicks on YouTube.Bestselling tabloid Bild demands an interview with the \"loony YouTube Hitler\" in which it tries to call his bluff. \"Is it true that you admire Adolf Hitler?\" asks the journalist. \"Only in the mirror in the morning,\" Adolf replies. Because Hitler does not adapt\u00a0to the 21st century and instead just continues to be the Hitler who died in 1945, no one can get a grip on\u00a0him.All the tabloids can do is express outrage, which means the more respectable broadsheets start to celebrate this unique method actor's \"improv\" act as a clever deconstruction of modern morals. Soon, the talkshow circuit beckons, then the leap into politics. Which prompts the question: will Hitler soon be back where he left off in 1945?Partly thanks to a massive marketing campaign involving popular comedian Christoph Maria Herbst, Look Who's Back (Er ist wieder da), with its cover depicting Hitler's block-like side-parted hair and toothbrush moustache, has sold more than 1.4m copies in print and audiobook in Germany. No mean feat, considering the hardback sold \u2013 in a knowing historical reference to the year the Nazi party leader came to power \u2013 for a hefty \u20ac19.33.Critics, though, have been underwhelmed. Some argued the novel \"trivialised\" the dictator's crimes by making the reader laugh not at, but also with him. Others felt the satire just didn't bite enough: \"A mediocre joke that suddenly got successful,\" as author and critic Daniel Erk put it.Vermes, a 47-year-old former ghostwriter with a German mother and a Hungarian father, brushes off such complaints: \"Books don't have to educate or turn people into better human beings \u2013 they can also just ask questions. If mine makes some readers realise that dictators aren't necessarily instantly recognisable as such, then I consider it a success.\"Vermes's hunch that a modern Hitler might find a home in comedy is by no means far-fetched. Almost 70 years after the end of the second world war, the web is awash with Hitler humour. Click on YouTube and you will find more than 100 videos made in recent years by satirists snatching clips from Downfall, the 2004 German movie of Hitler's demise, and doctoring them to tell a range of stories about personal travails and world politics. Watch Hitler erupt in frustration over his Xbox or flip out because his friends aren't going to Burning Man. This is the age of the \"Hipster Hitler\", run by a group of New Yorkers, in which the 21st-century, design-aware \"Hipster Hitler\" wears T-shirts that say \"Heilvetica\" and starts another beer-hall putsch because his local doesn't serve the latest craft beer. There is the website catsthatlooklikehitler.com, which has popularised the nickname Kitler for white cats with unfortunate black markings that make them look like the F\u00fchrer. Hitler's appearances in popular culture and the media, from advertisements to Google requests and the surface of toast, have become so pervasive that leftwing newspaper Taz until recently ran a dedicated Hitler blog on its website, keeping track of\u00a0them.Of course, in the right hands, the Nazis have always been comic. Charlie Chaplin's The Great Dictator set the benchmark for Hitler humour as far back as 1940 (though Vermes's Hitler thinks it's \"cheap and shoddy\" compared with the real deal).For the British, initially egged on in wartime to ridicule the F\u00fchrer by the Ministry of Information, Hitler humour was never really considered out of bounds. And since the war, the leader of the German fascist movement has made regular appearances in British comedy, his jerking body movements and violent outbursts reenacted eerily in Till Death Do Us Part, I'm All Right Jack and Fawlty Towers. He even ran for the Minehead by-election in Monty Python, circa 1970. As author Jacques Peretti once put it: \"Hitler was basically David Brent with clicky\u00a0heels.\"In Germany, there used to be more ambivalence about using the orchestrator of the Holocaust as a comic figure, although a compilation of jokes about the Nazi regime was one of the very first books to be published in postwar Germany. Showing that the nation had laughed about Hitler allowed people to claim that some had rebelled against the Nazis, even if those acts of rebellion had been restricted to a whispered punchline or stifled laughter.In 1949, the year of the foundation of modern Germany, West Berliners enjoyed a cabaret show by satirist G\u00fcnter Neumann called I Was Hitler's Moustache, about a Hitler body double who gets carried away with his new-found fame. Der Spiegel gave it an emphatic thumbs up: \"Hitler's first step on to a Berlin stage was laughed at loudly and at length.\" Laughing at Hitler was a way of showing you were on the right side.After the 1968 student protests ushered in a more critical stance towards not just the Nazi leader but the entire generation who had voted him in, it became harder to do comedy about Hitler without looking suspiciously like an apologist. Not having a German passport helped. George Tabori, the author of the first genuine Hitler satire to appear on a German stage, in 1988, was Hungarian. The play, simply called Mein Kampf, imagined a friendship between the young Hitler and a Jewish novelist, who primes him for a career in politics and designs his new look. \"There are some taboos that need to be broken unless we want to choke on them,\" Tabori later said.The book that in Germany truly ended the debate over whether it was \"OK to laugh about Hitler\" was an anarchic grotesque by cartoonist Walter Moers, published in 1998, in which the modern dictator starts an affair with G\u00f6ring, now specialising in domination on the Reeperbahn, and tries to take over the world with Princess Diana.Far from breaking any big taboos, Timur Vermes's novel may be a sign that Germany now looks at Hitler the way the rest of the world has already done for years: as a stock comic character. \"For decades, we learned to see him not as a human being but as a demon,\" says Klaus C\u00e4sar Zehrer, a German satirist and historian. \"Now that's changing, and he's tilting over into caricature: he used to be the ultimate villain, now he is the ultimate idiot.\"Increasingly, Zehrer says, Hitler satire is directed less and less at the Nazi period, and more at the few who still genuinely admire him. The funniest chapter of Look Who's Back has Hitler ridiculing the shambolic goings-on of the National Democratic party, the far-right outfit who many see as bearing the marks of Hitler's National Socialists.That particular chapter may well have been inspired by extra3, one of the few reliable funny comedy shows on German television, which allows a dubbed Hitler to rant about the ineffectiveness of the modern German far right. \"It works because for the neo-Nazis, this guy is still someone they look up to,\" says programme editor Andreas Lange.In 2008, Lange said his team considered letting Hitler rant about the Chinese Olympic opening ceremony too, but decided to scrap the segment. \"The problem with Hitler as a vehicle for satire is that you very quickly get tied up with comparisons you need to justify. We didn't want to use Hitler as if he was some pub circuit standup \u2013 there needed to be comedic\u00a0precision to his\u00a0contributions.\"At the beginning extra3 used to get regular complaints from viewers, but their number has decreased over the years. \"It has become increasingly difficult to provoke audiences with the Nazis. Jokes about animals and the church always get complaints \u2013 jokes about Hitler less and less so.\"Thomas Pigor, a cabaret performer who does a popular chanson about the F\u00fchrer's aftershave, maintains that the only way to still get any comic mileage out of the Hitler impressions these days is to explore the gap between cardboard cut-out madman and the private human being. \"When I do Hitler, I can't start out with the volume at full tilt \u2013 people wouldn't find that funny. I give him a low burr \u2013 that's where you get some comic potential, in the tension between monstrosity and\u00a0banality\".Vermes too says he had \"a curtailed idea of who Hitler was\" before writing his book. \"There is this 'instant Hitler' most people know, who is a bit like instant coffee, very one-dimensional.\"In search of a Hitler beyond the caricatures, he decided to read Mein Kampf for the first time. \"It's written in the style of someone who doesn't normally write: pompous and snivelling, lots of animal metaphors. If one word would do but Hitler knows three, he will use all three.\"But, he argues, the book was so dangerous precisely because it's not full of mad ideas. \"Some of it is fairly commonsensical. Take Hitler's thoughts on housing: he says young people need houses, so the state should build more houses. We can't declare that wrong simply because it was Hitler who said it.\"Vermes's modern Hitler, too, doesn't only spout repellent ideas that would instantly alienate the reader. On the one hand, he rails against parliamentary democracy, decries press freedom, and rejoices at the fact that 65 years after the end of the war, Germany's Jewish population is still only a fifth of what it was in 1933. But on the other, his complaints about hunting, food scandals and drivers racing through inner-city areas would fit perfectly into any modern party manifesto. \"That's why many readers thought my Hitler was too real: he was too normal,\" Vermes\u00a0says.The younger the reader, he says, the more they enjoyed his book. His mother, who was born in 1942, failed to see the funny side. \"'But that's what Hitler was like,' she said.\"Sometimes it feels like Vermes may have studied the ponderous style of his protagonist's memoir a bit too closely: for a comic novel, the opening chapters of Look Who's Back in particular can be a bit of a slog.And yet there's no question that the novel has hit upon the key paradox of our modern obsession with Hitler. In spite of his current ubiquity \u2013 in the media, in advertising, in film and in comedy \u2013 we are perhaps further than ever from understanding what he was like as a real human being, or how he was able to lead the German people to participate in the historic crime of the\u00a0Holocaust.Und \u00c4ktschn! (And Action!), a critically acclaimed comedy released in German cinemas last month, tells the story of an amateur film-maker trying to make a movie about Adolf Hitler's private life. In an interview with Der Spiegel, its director, veteran Bavarian satirist Gerhard Polt, argued that there must have been a likable side to Hitler \u2013 otherwise how could he have penetrated the salons of Munich high society? \"The likable guys are the dangerous ones. When a likable person gives you a hug and says something terrible, it's much harder to let go.\"Look Who's Back is published by MacLehose press on 3 April. Timur Vermes will be speaking at the Bristol festival of ideas, Foyles Cabot Circus, 1 April, 6.30pm. Tickets via ideasfestival.co.uk", "tags": ["Adolf Hitler", "Germany", "Fiction", "Second world war", "Fiction in translation", "Books", "Europe", "World news", "Culture"], "title": "Germany asks: is it OK to laugh at Hitler?"},{"date": "2014-02-02T20:14:36Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has signalled it is preparing a third rescue package for Greece \u2013 provided the debt-stricken country implements \"rigorous\"austerity measures blamed for record levels of unemployment and a dramatic drop in GDP.The new loan, outlined in a five-page position paper by Berlin's finance ministry, would be worth between \u20ac10bn to \u20ac20bn (\u00a38bn-16bn), according to the German weekly Der Spiegel, which was leaked the document.Such an amount would chime with comments made by the German finance minister, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, who, in a separate interview due to be published on Monday insisted that any additional aid required by Athens would be \"far smaller\" than the \u20ac240bn it had received so far.\"What is sure is that any further aid would be much less expansive than whatever help [has been given] so far,\" he is quoted as telling the German finance magazine Wirtschaftswoche in what appears to be a calibrated move aimed at preparing public opinion.The renewed help follows revelations of clandestine talks between Sch\u00e4uble and leading EU figures over how to deal with Greece, which despite receiving the biggest bailout in global financial history, continues to remain the weakest link in the eurozone.The talks, said to have taken place on the sidelines of a Eurogroup meeting of eurozone finance ministers last week, are believed to have focused on the need to cover an impending shortfall in the country's financing and the reluctance Athens is displaying to enforce long overdue structural reforms. The lack of progress is at the root of stalled talks between Greece and its \"troika\" of creditors, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), European Central Bank and EU.Greece faces a financing gap of up to \u20ac15bn over the next two years, according to foreign creditors, which have kept its economy afloat since May 2010. As the EU's powerhouse, Berlin has bankrolled most of the emergency loans to date.But a German finance ministry spokesman, echoing similar statements by Sch\u00e4uble, denied that a further restructuring of Greece's staggering debt \u2013 this time by public creditors \u2013 was also on the cards.\"There is no new situation,\" said the spokesman referring to previous statements made by Sch\u00e4uble also rejecting the need for debt relief to be extended to recession-hit Greece.Most of the debt overhang now haunting the country belongs to European governments and at 176% of GDP \u2013 up from 120% of national output at the start of the crisis \u2013 is not only a barrier to investment but widely regarded as being at the root of its economic woes.\"They are missing the point: Greece does not need a third bailout, it needs debt restructuring,\" said the shadow development minister and economics professor, Giorgos Stathakis.\"Even in the IMF, logical people agree there is no way we can have any more fiscal adjustment when the whole thing has reached its limits,\" he said. \"There is simply no room for further cuts and further taxes and that is what they are going to ask for.\"He said the assistance was \"the wrong thing at the wrong time\". Unemployment is nudging 28% \u2013 and youth unemployment rate tops 60% \u2013 while economic recovery is still far from assured, despite the nation outperforming targets with the achievement of a primary budget surplus in 2013.The IMF has been increasingly at odds with Germany and other lenders over the need to write off Greece's debt. Confidential records, documenting minutes of meetings held to discuss the country's first bailout, reveal the level of discord among member states over the feasibility of the rescue programme. The IMF said last year that without additional debt relief by eurozone governments, Greece's debt burden could smother the country's economy.China, Brazil, Argentina, India, Egypt and Switzerland have been among the countries expressing grave doubts that the assistance would work, arguing that Greece might end up worse off after the austerity programme.", "tags": ["Germany", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial sector", "Business"], "title": "Germany preparing third financial rescue for Greece"},{"date": "2014-03-23T08:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "If Hitler were alive today, would he become a standup comic? Incredible though that may sound to anyone who lived through the second world war, that is the scenario sketched out in Look Who's Back, a satirical novel by Timur Vermes, which topped the bestseller lists in Germany after its publication in 2012 and is now about to be published in English.In the opening pages, Hitler wakes up on a building site in Berlin in 2011. His memory of how he got there is hazy: \"I think Eva and I chatted for a while, and I showed her my old pistol, but when I awoke I was unable to recall any further detail.\"The owner of a nearby kiosk recognises him \u2013 after all, 66 years after his death the man's face is still ubiquitous \u2013 and, assuming that Hitler is an extra from a new second world war film who is remaining resolutely in character (\"Bruno Ganz was superb, but he's not a patch on you\"), the kiosk owner hooks him up with a local comedy promoter.Hitler's first gig, the warm-up slot for a Turkish-German comic, goes down like a sinking U-boat. His dark rant about Muslims, abortion and plastic surgery has his audience gasping in shock. But gradually the performance gathers clicks on YouTube.Bestselling tabloid Bild demands an interview with the \"loony YouTube Hitler\" in which it tries to call his bluff. \"Is it true that you admire Adolf Hitler?\" asks the journalist. \"Only in the mirror in the morning,\" Adolf replies. Because Hitler does not adapt\u00a0to the 21st century and instead just continues to be the Hitler who died in 1945, no one can get a grip on\u00a0him.All the tabloids can do is express outrage, which means the more respectable broadsheets start to celebrate this unique method actor's \"improv\" act as a clever deconstruction of modern morals. Soon, the talkshow circuit beckons, then the leap into politics. Which prompts the question: will Hitler soon be back where he left off in 1945?Partly thanks to a massive marketing campaign involving popular comedian Christoph Maria Herbst, Look Who's Back (Er ist wieder da), with its cover depicting Hitler's block-like side-parted hair and toothbrush moustache, has sold more than 1.4m copies in print and audiobook in Germany. No mean feat, considering the hardback sold \u2013 in a knowing historical reference to the year the Nazi party leader came to power \u2013 for a hefty \u20ac19.33.Critics, though, have been underwhelmed. Some argued the novel \"trivialised\" the dictator's crimes by making the reader laugh not at, but also with him. Others felt the satire just didn't bite enough: \"A mediocre joke that suddenly got successful,\" as author and critic Daniel Erk put it.Vermes, a 47-year-old former ghostwriter with a German mother and a Hungarian father, brushes off such complaints: \"Books don't have to educate or turn people into better human beings \u2013 they can also just ask questions. If mine makes some readers realise that dictators aren't necessarily instantly recognisable as such, then I consider it a success.\"Vermes's hunch that a modern Hitler might find a home in comedy is by no means far-fetched. Almost 70 years after the end of the second world war, the web is awash with Hitler humour. Click on YouTube and you will find more than 100 videos made in recent years by satirists snatching clips from Downfall, the 2004 German movie of Hitler's demise, and doctoring them to tell a range of stories about personal travails and world politics. Watch Hitler erupt in frustration over his Xbox or flip out because his friends aren't going to Burning Man. This is the age of the \"Hipster Hitler\", run by a group of New Yorkers, in which the 21st-century, design-aware \"Hipster Hitler\" wears T-shirts that say \"Heilvetica\" and starts another beer-hall putsch because his local doesn't serve the latest craft beer. There is the website catsthatlooklikehitler.com, which has popularised the nickname Kitler for white cats with unfortunate black markings that make them look like the F\u00fchrer. Hitler's appearances in popular culture and the media, from advertisements to Google requests and the surface of toast, have become so pervasive that leftwing newspaper Taz until recently ran a dedicated Hitler blog on its website, keeping track of\u00a0them.Of course, in the right hands, the Nazis have always been comic. Charlie Chaplin's The Great Dictator set the benchmark for Hitler humour as far back as 1940 (though Vermes's Hitler thinks it's \"cheap and shoddy\" compared with the real deal).For the British, initially egged on in wartime to ridicule the F\u00fchrer by the Ministry of Information, Hitler humour was never really considered out of bounds. And since the war, the leader of the German fascist movement has made regular appearances in British comedy, his jerking body movements and violent outbursts reenacted eerily in Till Death Do Us Part, I'm All Right Jack and Fawlty Towers. He even ran for the Minehead by-election in Monty Python, circa 1970. As author Jacques Peretti once put it: \"Hitler was basically David Brent with clicky\u00a0heels.\"In Germany, there used to be more ambivalence about using the orchestrator of the Holocaust as a comic figure, although a compilation of jokes about the Nazi regime was one of the very first books to be published in postwar Germany. Showing that the nation had laughed about Hitler allowed people to claim that some had rebelled against the Nazis, even if those acts of rebellion had been restricted to a whispered punchline or stifled laughter.In 1949, the year of the foundation of modern Germany, West Berliners enjoyed a cabaret show by satirist G\u00fcnter Neumann called I Was Hitler's Moustache, about a Hitler body double who gets carried away with his new-found fame. Der Spiegel gave it an emphatic thumbs up: \"Hitler's first step on to a Berlin stage was laughed at loudly and at length.\" Laughing at Hitler was a way of showing you were on the right side.After the 1968 student protests ushered in a more critical stance towards not just the Nazi leader but the entire generation who had voted him in, it became harder to do comedy about Hitler without looking suspiciously like an apologist. Not having a German passport helped. George Tabori, the author of the first genuine Hitler satire to appear on a German stage, in 1988, was Hungarian. The play, simply called Mein Kampf, imagined a friendship between the young Hitler and a Jewish novelist, who primes him for a career in politics and designs his new look. \"There are some taboos that need to be broken unless we want to choke on them,\" Tabori later said.The book that in Germany truly ended the debate over whether it was \"OK to laugh about Hitler\" was an anarchic grotesque by cartoonist Walter Moers, published in 1998, in which the modern dictator starts an affair with G\u00f6ring, now specialising in domination on the Reeperbahn, and tries to take over the world with Princess Diana.Far from breaking any big taboos, Timur Vermes's novel may be a sign that Germany now looks at Hitler the way the rest of the world has already done for years: as a stock comic character. \"For decades, we learned to see him not as a human being but as a demon,\" says Klaus C\u00e4sar Zehrer, a German satirist and historian. \"Now that's changing, and he's tilting over into caricature: he used to be the ultimate villain, now he is the ultimate idiot.\"Increasingly, Zehrer says, Hitler satire is directed less and less at the Nazi period, and more at the few who still genuinely admire him. The funniest chapter of Look Who's Back has Hitler ridiculing the shambolic goings-on of the National Democratic party, the far-right outfit who many see as bearing the marks of Hitler's National Socialists.That particular chapter may well have been inspired by extra3, one of the few reliable funny comedy shows on German television, which allows a dubbed Hitler to rant about the ineffectiveness of the modern German far right. \"It works because for the neo-Nazis, this guy is still someone they look up to,\" says programme editor Andreas Lange.In 2008, Lange said his team considered letting Hitler rant about the Chinese Olympic opening ceremony too, but decided to scrap the segment. \"The problem with Hitler as a vehicle for satire is that you very quickly get tied up with comparisons you need to justify. We didn't want to use Hitler as if he was some pub circuit standup \u2013 there needed to be comedic\u00a0precision to his\u00a0contributions.\"At the beginning extra3 used to get regular complaints from viewers, but their number has decreased over the years. \"It has become increasingly difficult to provoke audiences with the Nazis. Jokes about animals and the church always get complaints \u2013 jokes about Hitler less and less so.\"Thomas Pigor, a cabaret performer who does a popular chanson about the F\u00fchrer's aftershave, maintains that the only way to still get any comic mileage out of the Hitler impressions these days is to explore the gap between cardboard cut-out madman and the private human being. \"When I do Hitler, I can't start out with the volume at full tilt \u2013 people wouldn't find that funny. I give him a low burr \u2013 that's where you get some comic potential, in the tension between monstrosity and\u00a0banality\".Vermes too says he had \"a curtailed idea of who Hitler was\" before writing his book. \"There is this 'instant Hitler' most people know, who is a bit like instant coffee, very one-dimensional.\"In search of a Hitler beyond the caricatures, he decided to read Mein Kampf for the first time. \"It's written in the style of someone who doesn't normally write: pompous and snivelling, lots of animal metaphors. If one word would do but Hitler knows three, he will use all three.\"But, he argues, the book was so dangerous precisely because it's not full of mad ideas. \"Some of it is fairly commonsensical. Take Hitler's thoughts on housing: he says young people need houses, so the state should build more houses. We can't declare that wrong simply because it was Hitler who said it.\"Vermes's modern Hitler, too, doesn't only spout repellent ideas that would instantly alienate the reader. On the one hand, he rails against parliamentary democracy, decries press freedom, and rejoices at the fact that 65 years after the end of the war, Germany's Jewish population is still only a fifth of what it was in 1933. But on the other, his complaints about hunting, food scandals and drivers racing through inner-city areas would fit perfectly into any modern party manifesto. \"That's why many readers thought my Hitler was too real: he was too normal,\" Vermes\u00a0says.The younger the reader, he says, the more they enjoyed his book. His mother, who was born in 1942, failed to see the funny side. \"'But that's what Hitler was like,' she said.\"Sometimes it feels like Vermes may have studied the ponderous style of his protagonist's memoir a bit too closely: for a comic novel, the opening chapters of Look Who's Back in particular can be a bit of a slog.And yet there's no question that the novel has hit upon the key paradox of our modern obsession with Hitler. In spite of his current ubiquity \u2013 in the media, in advertising, in film and in comedy \u2013 we are perhaps further than ever from understanding what he was like as a real human being, or how he was able to lead the German people to participate in the historic crime of the\u00a0Holocaust.Und \u00c4ktschn! (And Action!), a critically acclaimed comedy released in German cinemas last month, tells the story of an amateur film-maker trying to make a movie about Adolf Hitler's private life. In an interview with Der Spiegel, its director, veteran Bavarian satirist Gerhard Polt, argued that there must have been a likable side to Hitler \u2013 otherwise how could he have penetrated the salons of Munich high society? \"The likable guys are the dangerous ones. When a likable person gives you a hug and says something terrible, it's much harder to let go.\"Look Who's Back is published by MacLehose press on 3 April. Timur Vermes will be speaking at the Bristol festival of ideas, Foyles Cabot Circus, 1 April, 6.30pm. Tickets via ideasfestival.co.uk", "tags": ["Adolf Hitler", "Germany", "Fiction", "Second world war", "Fiction in translation", "Books", "Europe", "World news", "Culture"], "title": "Germany asks: is it OK to laugh at Hitler?"},{"date": "2014-03-04T09:02:18Z", "country": "germany", "content": " 9.02am GMT Small but important update. I\u2019ve amended the penultimate post from Thursday to give the Economist\u2019s executive editor his correct name - Daniel Franklin (not David). Apologies. 4.05pm GMT It\u2019s not really a subject which deserves a crude verdict: the idea was never to suggest we were foes, more to explore the often overlooked ties that bind and see how strong they really are.There is no doubt that German and British people who go abroad and meet each other find much in common - as they inevitably would, and hopefully would with many other nationalities. That there is surprise so often expressed at how much they have in common betrays the underlying issue, I\u2019d suggest.Today though there seems to be more reason than ever to explore much strong relationships between the two countries. I hesitate to say a special relationship because there is something exclusive and bullying about the term.Thanks so much for some great comments. Reality Check wont always lend itself to personal anecdotes, but I\u2019ve really enjoyed them and this time they were relevant!  4.01pm GMT There have been suggestions that the question about the UK and Germany being friends or foes is redundant or even insulting - some politely, by inference, others more - ahem - directly.There are too many good personal anecdotes and gentle chastisements about people getting on with people and nation states being an artificial construct to credit them all, but this was one of my favourites. It also happily deals with the issue of humour which I inexplicably forgot to mention, possibly because I laugh a lot with my friends from Germany.I remember reading somewhere that a traveller heard more laughter within two hours of arriving in Berlin than he/she had heard the previous two weeks in Paris. The truth is that the Germans are - to generalise wildly - a great bunch. They manage to run an efficient, de-centralised economy with workers' representatives often on corporate boards. Without much fuss, they integrated the lame duck former GDR and made a success of that. They make great beer and know how to enjoy themselves. Yes, they're patriotic but this doesn't spill into the demeaning jingoism stoked by the tabloids over here. They've also faced up to their responsibilities over WWII and, it could be argued, have actually gone too far. The poignant holocaust memorial in Berlin (next to the Brandenberg Gate) is a stunning acknowledgement of guilt planted right in the city centre. And, strange as it may seem, they actually like us...although are a little baffled by our obsession with WWII. I'd be proud to say 'Ich bin ein Berliner'. Tchuss.However I also spoke to Peter Littger, chairman of the King Edward VII British-German Foundation, a small charity dedicated to promoting better relations between the two different countries. He has just helped edit a book of essays on the subject, published by Granta in the UK, under the title \u2018Common Destiny vs. Marriage of Convenience - What do Britons and Germans want from Europe?\u2019The title borrows in part from an essay by the Economist\u2019s executive editor Daniel Franklin, \u2018Scenes from the British-German Marriage (marriage of not that much convenience)\u2019. Franklin gives a fly on the wall account of a summit of senior figures from both countries including business leaders and former diplomats, one which appears to have gone so badly that one member of the UK delegation is reported as saying \u201cwe\u2019re not moving apart, we\u2019re marching apart\u201d.Somehow, amongst the people that were once the \u201cglue\u201d between these two countries, something is going wrong, says Littger.\ufeffThe national character: there are differences that perhaps are part of the reason it\u2019s so difficult... There\u2019s this kinship and common history, and dynastic relationship, but [on] economic and social concepts we tend to think we know best and Brits tend to think they know it best\ufeff.Littger, too, however believes that Germany and the UK have many common interests - citing an unexpected but growing euro-scepticism in Germany, albeit within a strong commitment to staying in the EU.We need to keep open communication channels because everything can only get worse if we move apart.Updated at 9.01am GMT 2.42pm GMT I\u2019m still looking for a historian who can talk me through Anglo-Prussian relations before the world wars, which I think were very different. Meantime, I\u2019ve talked on the phone to Simon Green, professor of politics and co-director of the Aston Centre for Europe at Aston University in Birmingham, who has a particular interest in Anglo-German relations.The suggestion of a rivalry between the two countries is noticeably declining as the generations who lived through the two world wars give way to younger people for whom that has less cultural resonance, suggests Green. Now, the more important question is \u201chow much of a friend is Germany\u201d to the UK, says Green:Germany is absolutely critical, a key partner in the EU. From our perspective as a country look around you in Europe: who is going to be the country which is closest to Britain in our trading interests, in our interests in free markets? It\u2019s going to be Germany. It\u2019s not going to be France, Italy or Spain... All those countries have got different traditions in terms of how the state operates, particularly France. The German way of ordo-liberalism - that the state sets the rules of the game but doesn\u2019t interfere in markets beyond that\ufeff - that\u2019s something that resonates well in the UK.We might prefer to go on holiday to France, Spain or Italy - as the Germans do too - but in other EU matters the UK and Germany have similar approaches to important issues such as migration, foreign policy and security, suggests Green. Labour market policy is perhaps a notable exception. Interestingly, in the UK we are marking the 100th anniversary of the start of World War I, and the 75th anniversary of World War II, while in Germany there is discussion of the 300th anniversary of the King of Hannover becoming King George I. 12.50pm GMT Two reasons we should keep being friendly with Germany: they are the world\u2019s second biggest buyer of UK exports (though experts might be able to tell me if this is skewed by goods passing in and quickly out of their ports) and the biggest source of UK imports.These charts are from HM Revenue and Customs figures for trade in the year to December 2013. The full report is here. 12.17pm GMT An interesting debate below the line about whether the question itself is childish and out of date, or still valid:Are we still rolling out this sort of juvenile type of polling? Can we really be friends??!! Can we remember the War/penalty shootouts and still get on yes - its possible really!! We have had a good relationship with Germany for over a generation so lets move on from this stereotypical backward approach and understand that many people are now so well travelled in Europe and have multi-international ties with many people in many countries. Guardian you can do better than this!!In reply, britwatch recounts a disquieting experience of brining a group of German school children to the UK:Your stereotypically trite response shows that like so many you are in denial regarding the complexities of this issue.Educationalists and historians in the UK have nurtured a clear black-and-white narrative on the world wars: the British were the heroes and the Germans were inhuman incarnations of unimaginable evil. That' s easy to teach and is generally satisfying to hear. War is on the obligatory syllabus of schoolchildren as young as ?seven or eight (correct me on age.) Nothing that has happened in Germany in the last seventy years makes for such a good story.Going round the Imperial War Museum of the North one morning with a group of 15-16 year-old German girls, we encountered three British primary school groups doing project work on 'War'. Two kids from one of the groups asked some of my pupils what language they were speaking. When they heard they were Germans, they ran away shrieking in genuine terror. Although I had tried to prepare my pupils for this sort of encounter, which has become increasingly common in the last ten to fifteen years, the girls were left in tears, deeply shocked that children so young were being brainwashed into being afraid of them. I could continue and list all the similar unpleasant und uncomfortable encounters over the years. It is a problem I have discussed on more than one occasion with head teachers in the UK but most react like jiveboy and pretend it is all a figment of the imagination.Germans eventually get used to it. I personally think it is nevertheless extremely dangerous to teach young children this kind of racism. It could be something the UK lives to regret. 12.06pm GMT Our Berlin correspondent Philip Oltermann has sent me some interesting, nuanced thoughts on the subject by email.He wrote a piece for the Guardian this year comparing the Anglo-German relationship with the recently reinvigorated Franco-German ties. There are so many institutional projects that France and Germany work on together, like the joint TV channel Arte, the Franco-German University, and the annual joint cabinet session last month. Talking to government people about the Merkel visit, they all say that in particular Merkel\u2019s people have a lot more in common with Britain than France, but they get the chance to talk to the French more often, and more informally, whereas conversation with Britain is always done via loudspeaker, through the press.On a more informal note, Oltermann adds:While relations between Merkel and Cameron appear by all accounts to be in pretty good shape and they are said to like each other, Anglo-German relations at the other end have been neglected for years. I did this about the decline of twin towns and school exchanges recently, which made for quite depressing research.At the sports and culture end, I think it\u2019s fair to say there has been a bit of a shift. Germany has always been Anglophile, relatively speaking, and especially so in the 90s and noughties, when Schroeder tried to copy Blair and Cool Britannia was in vogue. Now the Germans have cooled on British culture a bit, whereas German art (see exhbition at the National, Saatchi, etc), German music (Kraftwerk selling out Turbine Hall), and German footballers (I bet there are more German players in the Premier League now than ever before) are all the rage. 11.39am GMT We might as well get this over and done with early in the day. Our national football rivalry kicked off in 1930 with a draw: since then the Germans are ahead in the stats, but only by a nose. George Arnett on our data team has done battle with the FIFA website and totted up the results in international tournaments, qualifiers and friendlies since then. And the results are:Two of those Germany wins were on penalties. So yes, if penalty shoot-outs were scratched from the rule book, we\u2019d be evens.  11.12am GMT It\u2019s nice to start on a positive note. This from the Germany Embassy yesterday: Ahead of tomorrow's visit by Chllr #Merkel, @yougov finds British public opinion on Germany \"strongly positive\" - http://t.co/v5CuTILCMTThe research by polling company YouGov is titled \u201cHurrah For Ze Germans!\u201d and reports: Fully 59% of British people have a positive opinion of Germany, including the majority of supporters from all three main parties, and even 50% of those supporting UKIP, a Eurosceptic party. Only 9% of people have negative views of Germany.\ufeff 11.03am GMT Angela Merkel, the German chancelllor, flies into the UK today for a high profile visit, including tea with he Queen and an address to both Houses of Parliament. This treatment is usually reserved for visiting heads of state, as previewed in today\u2019s Guardian by my colleagues Nicholas Watt and Philip Oltermann.The visit itself, including any briefings from official meetings and a press conference with Merkel and David Cameron, are being followed by the incomparable Andrew Sparrow on his Politics Live blog.Today\u2019s visit contrasts strongly with the pub lunch offered to the French president Francois Hollande in January.Is Cameron\u2019s government desperate to make a powerful friend in the EU? Or is it a reminder that despite two big wars and too many football penalties, the two countries have a lot in common?Help us to round up those football scores, flick back through the history books, test those political and economic ties, or simply share your experiences. Get in touch on Twitter @JulietteJowit, by email to juliette.jowit@theguardian.com and, of course, below the line. I remembered to turn on the comments today....", "tags": ["Germany", "Politics", "Football", "Angela Merkel", "David Cameron"], "title": "UK and Germany: are we more natural friends than foes? | Juliette Jowit"},{"date": "2014-02-02T20:14:36Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has signalled it is preparing a third rescue package for Greece \u2013 provided the debt-stricken country implements \"rigorous\"austerity measures blamed for record levels of unemployment and a dramatic drop in GDP.The new loan, outlined in a five-page position paper by Berlin's finance ministry, would be worth between \u20ac10bn to \u20ac20bn (\u00a38bn-16bn), according to the German weekly Der Spiegel, which was leaked the document.Such an amount would chime with comments made by the German finance minister, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, who, in a separate interview due to be published on Monday insisted that any additional aid required by Athens would be \"far smaller\" than the \u20ac240bn it had received so far.\"What is sure is that any further aid would be much less expansive than whatever help [has been given] so far,\" he is quoted as telling the German finance magazine Wirtschaftswoche in what appears to be a calibrated move aimed at preparing public opinion.The renewed help follows revelations of clandestine talks between Sch\u00e4uble and leading EU figures over how to deal with Greece, which despite receiving the biggest bailout in global financial history, continues to remain the weakest link in the eurozone.The talks, said to have taken place on the sidelines of a Eurogroup meeting of eurozone finance ministers last week, are believed to have focused on the need to cover an impending shortfall in the country's financing and the reluctance Athens is displaying to enforce long overdue structural reforms. The lack of progress is at the root of stalled talks between Greece and its \"troika\" of creditors, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), European Central Bank and EU.Greece faces a financing gap of up to \u20ac15bn over the next two years, according to foreign creditors, which have kept its economy afloat since May 2010. As the EU's powerhouse, Berlin has bankrolled most of the emergency loans to date.But a German finance ministry spokesman, echoing similar statements by Sch\u00e4uble, denied that a further restructuring of Greece's staggering debt \u2013 this time by public creditors \u2013 was also on the cards.\"There is no new situation,\" said the spokesman referring to previous statements made by Sch\u00e4uble also rejecting the need for debt relief to be extended to recession-hit Greece.Most of the debt overhang now haunting the country belongs to European governments and at 176% of GDP \u2013 up from 120% of national output at the start of the crisis \u2013 is not only a barrier to investment but widely regarded as being at the root of its economic woes.\"They are missing the point: Greece does not need a third bailout, it needs debt restructuring,\" said the shadow development minister and economics professor, Giorgos Stathakis.\"Even in the IMF, logical people agree there is no way we can have any more fiscal adjustment when the whole thing has reached its limits,\" he said. \"There is simply no room for further cuts and further taxes and that is what they are going to ask for.\"He said the assistance was \"the wrong thing at the wrong time\". Unemployment is nudging 28% \u2013 and youth unemployment rate tops 60% \u2013 while economic recovery is still far from assured, despite the nation outperforming targets with the achievement of a primary budget surplus in 2013.The IMF has been increasingly at odds with Germany and other lenders over the need to write off Greece's debt. Confidential records, documenting minutes of meetings held to discuss the country's first bailout, reveal the level of discord among member states over the feasibility of the rescue programme. The IMF said last year that without additional debt relief by eurozone governments, Greece's debt burden could smother the country's economy.China, Brazil, Argentina, India, Egypt and Switzerland have been among the countries expressing grave doubts that the assistance would work, arguing that Greece might end up worse off after the austerity programme.", "tags": ["Germany", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial sector", "Business"], "title": "Germany preparing third financial rescue for Greece"},{"date": "2014-03-23T08:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "If Hitler were alive today, would he become a standup comic? Incredible though that may sound to anyone who lived through the second world war, that is the scenario sketched out in Look Who's Back, a satirical novel by Timur Vermes, which topped the bestseller lists in Germany after its publication in 2012 and is now about to be published in English.In the opening pages, Hitler wakes up on a building site in Berlin in 2011. His memory of how he got there is hazy: \"I think Eva and I chatted for a while, and I showed her my old pistol, but when I awoke I was unable to recall any further detail.\"The owner of a nearby kiosk recognises him \u2013 after all, 66 years after his death the man's face is still ubiquitous \u2013 and, assuming that Hitler is an extra from a new second world war film who is remaining resolutely in character (\"Bruno Ganz was superb, but he's not a patch on you\"), the kiosk owner hooks him up with a local comedy promoter.Hitler's first gig, the warm-up slot for a Turkish-German comic, goes down like a sinking U-boat. His dark rant about Muslims, abortion and plastic surgery has his audience gasping in shock. But gradually the performance gathers clicks on YouTube.Bestselling tabloid Bild demands an interview with the \"loony YouTube Hitler\" in which it tries to call his bluff. \"Is it true that you admire Adolf Hitler?\" asks the journalist. \"Only in the mirror in the morning,\" Adolf replies. Because Hitler does not adapt\u00a0to the 21st century and instead just continues to be the Hitler who died in 1945, no one can get a grip on\u00a0him.All the tabloids can do is express outrage, which means the more respectable broadsheets start to celebrate this unique method actor's \"improv\" act as a clever deconstruction of modern morals. Soon, the talkshow circuit beckons, then the leap into politics. Which prompts the question: will Hitler soon be back where he left off in 1945?Partly thanks to a massive marketing campaign involving popular comedian Christoph Maria Herbst, Look Who's Back (Er ist wieder da), with its cover depicting Hitler's block-like side-parted hair and toothbrush moustache, has sold more than 1.4m copies in print and audiobook in Germany. No mean feat, considering the hardback sold \u2013 in a knowing historical reference to the year the Nazi party leader came to power \u2013 for a hefty \u20ac19.33.Critics, though, have been underwhelmed. Some argued the novel \"trivialised\" the dictator's crimes by making the reader laugh not at, but also with him. Others felt the satire just didn't bite enough: \"A mediocre joke that suddenly got successful,\" as author and critic Daniel Erk put it.Vermes, a 47-year-old former ghostwriter with a German mother and a Hungarian father, brushes off such complaints: \"Books don't have to educate or turn people into better human beings \u2013 they can also just ask questions. If mine makes some readers realise that dictators aren't necessarily instantly recognisable as such, then I consider it a success.\"Vermes's hunch that a modern Hitler might find a home in comedy is by no means far-fetched. Almost 70 years after the end of the second world war, the web is awash with Hitler humour. Click on YouTube and you will find more than 100 videos made in recent years by satirists snatching clips from Downfall, the 2004 German movie of Hitler's demise, and doctoring them to tell a range of stories about personal travails and world politics. Watch Hitler erupt in frustration over his Xbox or flip out because his friends aren't going to Burning Man. This is the age of the \"Hipster Hitler\", run by a group of New Yorkers, in which the 21st-century, design-aware \"Hipster Hitler\" wears T-shirts that say \"Heilvetica\" and starts another beer-hall putsch because his local doesn't serve the latest craft beer. There is the website catsthatlooklikehitler.com, which has popularised the nickname Kitler for white cats with unfortunate black markings that make them look like the F\u00fchrer. Hitler's appearances in popular culture and the media, from advertisements to Google requests and the surface of toast, have become so pervasive that leftwing newspaper Taz until recently ran a dedicated Hitler blog on its website, keeping track of\u00a0them.Of course, in the right hands, the Nazis have always been comic. Charlie Chaplin's The Great Dictator set the benchmark for Hitler humour as far back as 1940 (though Vermes's Hitler thinks it's \"cheap and shoddy\" compared with the real deal).For the British, initially egged on in wartime to ridicule the F\u00fchrer by the Ministry of Information, Hitler humour was never really considered out of bounds. And since the war, the leader of the German fascist movement has made regular appearances in British comedy, his jerking body movements and violent outbursts reenacted eerily in Till Death Do Us Part, I'm All Right Jack and Fawlty Towers. He even ran for the Minehead by-election in Monty Python, circa 1970. As author Jacques Peretti once put it: \"Hitler was basically David Brent with clicky\u00a0heels.\"In Germany, there used to be more ambivalence about using the orchestrator of the Holocaust as a comic figure, although a compilation of jokes about the Nazi regime was one of the very first books to be published in postwar Germany. Showing that the nation had laughed about Hitler allowed people to claim that some had rebelled against the Nazis, even if those acts of rebellion had been restricted to a whispered punchline or stifled laughter.In 1949, the year of the foundation of modern Germany, West Berliners enjoyed a cabaret show by satirist G\u00fcnter Neumann called I Was Hitler's Moustache, about a Hitler body double who gets carried away with his new-found fame. Der Spiegel gave it an emphatic thumbs up: \"Hitler's first step on to a Berlin stage was laughed at loudly and at length.\" Laughing at Hitler was a way of showing you were on the right side.After the 1968 student protests ushered in a more critical stance towards not just the Nazi leader but the entire generation who had voted him in, it became harder to do comedy about Hitler without looking suspiciously like an apologist. Not having a German passport helped. George Tabori, the author of the first genuine Hitler satire to appear on a German stage, in 1988, was Hungarian. The play, simply called Mein Kampf, imagined a friendship between the young Hitler and a Jewish novelist, who primes him for a career in politics and designs his new look. \"There are some taboos that need to be broken unless we want to choke on them,\" Tabori later said.The book that in Germany truly ended the debate over whether it was \"OK to laugh about Hitler\" was an anarchic grotesque by cartoonist Walter Moers, published in 1998, in which the modern dictator starts an affair with G\u00f6ring, now specialising in domination on the Reeperbahn, and tries to take over the world with Princess Diana.Far from breaking any big taboos, Timur Vermes's novel may be a sign that Germany now looks at Hitler the way the rest of the world has already done for years: as a stock comic character. \"For decades, we learned to see him not as a human being but as a demon,\" says Klaus C\u00e4sar Zehrer, a German satirist and historian. \"Now that's changing, and he's tilting over into caricature: he used to be the ultimate villain, now he is the ultimate idiot.\"Increasingly, Zehrer says, Hitler satire is directed less and less at the Nazi period, and more at the few who still genuinely admire him. The funniest chapter of Look Who's Back has Hitler ridiculing the shambolic goings-on of the National Democratic party, the far-right outfit who many see as bearing the marks of Hitler's National Socialists.That particular chapter may well have been inspired by extra3, one of the few reliable funny comedy shows on German television, which allows a dubbed Hitler to rant about the ineffectiveness of the modern German far right. \"It works because for the neo-Nazis, this guy is still someone they look up to,\" says programme editor Andreas Lange.In 2008, Lange said his team considered letting Hitler rant about the Chinese Olympic opening ceremony too, but decided to scrap the segment. \"The problem with Hitler as a vehicle for satire is that you very quickly get tied up with comparisons you need to justify. We didn't want to use Hitler as if he was some pub circuit standup \u2013 there needed to be comedic\u00a0precision to his\u00a0contributions.\"At the beginning extra3 used to get regular complaints from viewers, but their number has decreased over the years. \"It has become increasingly difficult to provoke audiences with the Nazis. Jokes about animals and the church always get complaints \u2013 jokes about Hitler less and less so.\"Thomas Pigor, a cabaret performer who does a popular chanson about the F\u00fchrer's aftershave, maintains that the only way to still get any comic mileage out of the Hitler impressions these days is to explore the gap between cardboard cut-out madman and the private human being. \"When I do Hitler, I can't start out with the volume at full tilt \u2013 people wouldn't find that funny. I give him a low burr \u2013 that's where you get some comic potential, in the tension between monstrosity and\u00a0banality\".Vermes too says he had \"a curtailed idea of who Hitler was\" before writing his book. \"There is this 'instant Hitler' most people know, who is a bit like instant coffee, very one-dimensional.\"In search of a Hitler beyond the caricatures, he decided to read Mein Kampf for the first time. \"It's written in the style of someone who doesn't normally write: pompous and snivelling, lots of animal metaphors. If one word would do but Hitler knows three, he will use all three.\"But, he argues, the book was so dangerous precisely because it's not full of mad ideas. \"Some of it is fairly commonsensical. Take Hitler's thoughts on housing: he says young people need houses, so the state should build more houses. We can't declare that wrong simply because it was Hitler who said it.\"Vermes's modern Hitler, too, doesn't only spout repellent ideas that would instantly alienate the reader. On the one hand, he rails against parliamentary democracy, decries press freedom, and rejoices at the fact that 65 years after the end of the war, Germany's Jewish population is still only a fifth of what it was in 1933. But on the other, his complaints about hunting, food scandals and drivers racing through inner-city areas would fit perfectly into any modern party manifesto. \"That's why many readers thought my Hitler was too real: he was too normal,\" Vermes\u00a0says.The younger the reader, he says, the more they enjoyed his book. His mother, who was born in 1942, failed to see the funny side. \"'But that's what Hitler was like,' she said.\"Sometimes it feels like Vermes may have studied the ponderous style of his protagonist's memoir a bit too closely: for a comic novel, the opening chapters of Look Who's Back in particular can be a bit of a slog.And yet there's no question that the novel has hit upon the key paradox of our modern obsession with Hitler. In spite of his current ubiquity \u2013 in the media, in advertising, in film and in comedy \u2013 we are perhaps further than ever from understanding what he was like as a real human being, or how he was able to lead the German people to participate in the historic crime of the\u00a0Holocaust.Und \u00c4ktschn! (And Action!), a critically acclaimed comedy released in German cinemas last month, tells the story of an amateur film-maker trying to make a movie about Adolf Hitler's private life. In an interview with Der Spiegel, its director, veteran Bavarian satirist Gerhard Polt, argued that there must have been a likable side to Hitler \u2013 otherwise how could he have penetrated the salons of Munich high society? \"The likable guys are the dangerous ones. When a likable person gives you a hug and says something terrible, it's much harder to let go.\"Look Who's Back is published by MacLehose press on 3 April. Timur Vermes will be speaking at the Bristol festival of ideas, Foyles Cabot Circus, 1 April, 6.30pm. Tickets via ideasfestival.co.uk", "tags": ["Adolf Hitler", "Germany", "Fiction", "Second world war", "Fiction in translation", "Books", "Europe", "World news", "Culture"], "title": "Germany asks: is it OK to laugh at Hitler?"},{"date": "2014-03-04T09:02:18Z", "country": "germany", "content": " 9.02am GMT Small but important update. I\u2019ve amended the penultimate post from Thursday to give the Economist\u2019s executive editor his correct name - Daniel Franklin (not David). Apologies. 4.05pm GMT It\u2019s not really a subject which deserves a crude verdict: the idea was never to suggest we were foes, more to explore the often overlooked ties that bind and see how strong they really are.There is no doubt that German and British people who go abroad and meet each other find much in common - as they inevitably would, and hopefully would with many other nationalities. That there is surprise so often expressed at how much they have in common betrays the underlying issue, I\u2019d suggest.Today though there seems to be more reason than ever to explore much strong relationships between the two countries. I hesitate to say a special relationship because there is something exclusive and bullying about the term.Thanks so much for some great comments. Reality Check wont always lend itself to personal anecdotes, but I\u2019ve really enjoyed them and this time they were relevant!  4.01pm GMT There have been suggestions that the question about the UK and Germany being friends or foes is redundant or even insulting - some politely, by inference, others more - ahem - directly.There are too many good personal anecdotes and gentle chastisements about people getting on with people and nation states being an artificial construct to credit them all, but this was one of my favourites. It also happily deals with the issue of humour which I inexplicably forgot to mention, possibly because I laugh a lot with my friends from Germany.I remember reading somewhere that a traveller heard more laughter within two hours of arriving in Berlin than he/she had heard the previous two weeks in Paris. The truth is that the Germans are - to generalise wildly - a great bunch. They manage to run an efficient, de-centralised economy with workers' representatives often on corporate boards. Without much fuss, they integrated the lame duck former GDR and made a success of that. They make great beer and know how to enjoy themselves. Yes, they're patriotic but this doesn't spill into the demeaning jingoism stoked by the tabloids over here. They've also faced up to their responsibilities over WWII and, it could be argued, have actually gone too far. The poignant holocaust memorial in Berlin (next to the Brandenberg Gate) is a stunning acknowledgement of guilt planted right in the city centre. And, strange as it may seem, they actually like us...although are a little baffled by our obsession with WWII. I'd be proud to say 'Ich bin ein Berliner'. Tchuss.However I also spoke to Peter Littger, chairman of the King Edward VII British-German Foundation, a small charity dedicated to promoting better relations between the two different countries. He has just helped edit a book of essays on the subject, published by Granta in the UK, under the title \u2018Common Destiny vs. Marriage of Convenience - What do Britons and Germans want from Europe?\u2019The title borrows in part from an essay by the Economist\u2019s executive editor Daniel Franklin, \u2018Scenes from the British-German Marriage (marriage of not that much convenience)\u2019. Franklin gives a fly on the wall account of a summit of senior figures from both countries including business leaders and former diplomats, one which appears to have gone so badly that one member of the UK delegation is reported as saying \u201cwe\u2019re not moving apart, we\u2019re marching apart\u201d.Somehow, amongst the people that were once the \u201cglue\u201d between these two countries, something is going wrong, says Littger.\ufeffThe national character: there are differences that perhaps are part of the reason it\u2019s so difficult... There\u2019s this kinship and common history, and dynastic relationship, but [on] economic and social concepts we tend to think we know best and Brits tend to think they know it best\ufeff.Littger, too, however believes that Germany and the UK have many common interests - citing an unexpected but growing euro-scepticism in Germany, albeit within a strong commitment to staying in the EU.We need to keep open communication channels because everything can only get worse if we move apart.Updated at 9.01am GMT 2.42pm GMT I\u2019m still looking for a historian who can talk me through Anglo-Prussian relations before the world wars, which I think were very different. Meantime, I\u2019ve talked on the phone to Simon Green, professor of politics and co-director of the Aston Centre for Europe at Aston University in Birmingham, who has a particular interest in Anglo-German relations.The suggestion of a rivalry between the two countries is noticeably declining as the generations who lived through the two world wars give way to younger people for whom that has less cultural resonance, suggests Green. Now, the more important question is \u201chow much of a friend is Germany\u201d to the UK, says Green:Germany is absolutely critical, a key partner in the EU. From our perspective as a country look around you in Europe: who is going to be the country which is closest to Britain in our trading interests, in our interests in free markets? It\u2019s going to be Germany. It\u2019s not going to be France, Italy or Spain... All those countries have got different traditions in terms of how the state operates, particularly France. The German way of ordo-liberalism - that the state sets the rules of the game but doesn\u2019t interfere in markets beyond that\ufeff - that\u2019s something that resonates well in the UK.We might prefer to go on holiday to France, Spain or Italy - as the Germans do too - but in other EU matters the UK and Germany have similar approaches to important issues such as migration, foreign policy and security, suggests Green. Labour market policy is perhaps a notable exception. Interestingly, in the UK we are marking the 100th anniversary of the start of World War I, and the 75th anniversary of World War II, while in Germany there is discussion of the 300th anniversary of the King of Hannover becoming King George I. 12.50pm GMT Two reasons we should keep being friendly with Germany: they are the world\u2019s second biggest buyer of UK exports (though experts might be able to tell me if this is skewed by goods passing in and quickly out of their ports) and the biggest source of UK imports.These charts are from HM Revenue and Customs figures for trade in the year to December 2013. The full report is here. 12.17pm GMT An interesting debate below the line about whether the question itself is childish and out of date, or still valid:Are we still rolling out this sort of juvenile type of polling? Can we really be friends??!! Can we remember the War/penalty shootouts and still get on yes - its possible really!! We have had a good relationship with Germany for over a generation so lets move on from this stereotypical backward approach and understand that many people are now so well travelled in Europe and have multi-international ties with many people in many countries. Guardian you can do better than this!!In reply, britwatch recounts a disquieting experience of brining a group of German school children to the UK:Your stereotypically trite response shows that like so many you are in denial regarding the complexities of this issue.Educationalists and historians in the UK have nurtured a clear black-and-white narrative on the world wars: the British were the heroes and the Germans were inhuman incarnations of unimaginable evil. That' s easy to teach and is generally satisfying to hear. War is on the obligatory syllabus of schoolchildren as young as ?seven or eight (correct me on age.) Nothing that has happened in Germany in the last seventy years makes for such a good story.Going round the Imperial War Museum of the North one morning with a group of 15-16 year-old German girls, we encountered three British primary school groups doing project work on 'War'. Two kids from one of the groups asked some of my pupils what language they were speaking. When they heard they were Germans, they ran away shrieking in genuine terror. Although I had tried to prepare my pupils for this sort of encounter, which has become increasingly common in the last ten to fifteen years, the girls were left in tears, deeply shocked that children so young were being brainwashed into being afraid of them. I could continue and list all the similar unpleasant und uncomfortable encounters over the years. It is a problem I have discussed on more than one occasion with head teachers in the UK but most react like jiveboy and pretend it is all a figment of the imagination.Germans eventually get used to it. I personally think it is nevertheless extremely dangerous to teach young children this kind of racism. It could be something the UK lives to regret. 12.06pm GMT Our Berlin correspondent Philip Oltermann has sent me some interesting, nuanced thoughts on the subject by email.He wrote a piece for the Guardian this year comparing the Anglo-German relationship with the recently reinvigorated Franco-German ties. There are so many institutional projects that France and Germany work on together, like the joint TV channel Arte, the Franco-German University, and the annual joint cabinet session last month. Talking to government people about the Merkel visit, they all say that in particular Merkel\u2019s people have a lot more in common with Britain than France, but they get the chance to talk to the French more often, and more informally, whereas conversation with Britain is always done via loudspeaker, through the press.On a more informal note, Oltermann adds:While relations between Merkel and Cameron appear by all accounts to be in pretty good shape and they are said to like each other, Anglo-German relations at the other end have been neglected for years. I did this about the decline of twin towns and school exchanges recently, which made for quite depressing research.At the sports and culture end, I think it\u2019s fair to say there has been a bit of a shift. Germany has always been Anglophile, relatively speaking, and especially so in the 90s and noughties, when Schroeder tried to copy Blair and Cool Britannia was in vogue. Now the Germans have cooled on British culture a bit, whereas German art (see exhbition at the National, Saatchi, etc), German music (Kraftwerk selling out Turbine Hall), and German footballers (I bet there are more German players in the Premier League now than ever before) are all the rage. 11.39am GMT We might as well get this over and done with early in the day. Our national football rivalry kicked off in 1930 with a draw: since then the Germans are ahead in the stats, but only by a nose. George Arnett on our data team has done battle with the FIFA website and totted up the results in international tournaments, qualifiers and friendlies since then. And the results are:Two of those Germany wins were on penalties. So yes, if penalty shoot-outs were scratched from the rule book, we\u2019d be evens.  11.12am GMT It\u2019s nice to start on a positive note. This from the Germany Embassy yesterday: Ahead of tomorrow's visit by Chllr #Merkel, @yougov finds British public opinion on Germany \"strongly positive\" - http://t.co/v5CuTILCMTThe research by polling company YouGov is titled \u201cHurrah For Ze Germans!\u201d and reports: Fully 59% of British people have a positive opinion of Germany, including the majority of supporters from all three main parties, and even 50% of those supporting UKIP, a Eurosceptic party. Only 9% of people have negative views of Germany.\ufeff 11.03am GMT Angela Merkel, the German chancelllor, flies into the UK today for a high profile visit, including tea with he Queen and an address to both Houses of Parliament. This treatment is usually reserved for visiting heads of state, as previewed in today\u2019s Guardian by my colleagues Nicholas Watt and Philip Oltermann.The visit itself, including any briefings from official meetings and a press conference with Merkel and David Cameron, are being followed by the incomparable Andrew Sparrow on his Politics Live blog.Today\u2019s visit contrasts strongly with the pub lunch offered to the French president Francois Hollande in January.Is Cameron\u2019s government desperate to make a powerful friend in the EU? Or is it a reminder that despite two big wars and too many football penalties, the two countries have a lot in common?Help us to round up those football scores, flick back through the history books, test those political and economic ties, or simply share your experiences. Get in touch on Twitter @JulietteJowit, by email to juliette.jowit@theguardian.com and, of course, below the line. I remembered to turn on the comments today....", "tags": ["Germany", "Politics", "Football", "Angela Merkel", "David Cameron"], "title": "UK and Germany: are we more natural friends than foes? | Juliette Jowit"},{"date": "2014-02-26T19:39:56Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The European parliament could become a squabbling ground for \"loonies and lobbyists\", observers warned after a German court on Wednesday ruled against a voting threshold at European elections.The president of the federal court, Andreas Vosskuhle, ruled on Wednesday that the 3% entry hurdle violated the constitution and had stopped parties from getting a fair hearing. The ruling will come into effect immediately and apply to the European elections in May, where Germany will elect 96 MEPs for the next parliamentary term \u2013 the highest number of seats of all member states.Sixteen out of 29 EU countries, including Britain, have no threshold quotas for European elections, but the issue is an unusually politically loaded one in Germany: a 5% hurdle was introduced for the national parliament in 1949 with a view to making the raucous parliamentary squabbles of the Weimar Republic a thing of the past.Germany's proportional system has encouraged the creation of an unusually high number of smaller parties. While the Pirate party, the anti-euro Alternative f\u00fcr Deutschland and the far-right NPD are the three most prominent parties likely to gain from the changes, a number of smaller splinter groups and single-issue parties will be hoping for seats in Strasbourg and Brussels too.The head of the Pirate party, which is currently represented in the European Parliament via its Swedish branch, said the decision would guarantee that citizens' votes \"wouldn't again fall under the table\".The NPD, over whom the upper body of the Germany parliament is currently seeking a ban, called the court's decision a \"phenomenal victory\" and confidently announced on its website that its entry into the European parliament was now \"not just likely, but a certainty\".At previous European elections, German parties had to overcome a 5% hurdle, which the federal court had ruled unlawful in 2011. Last year, the German parliament had proposed replacing the 5% hurdle with 3%, but after complaints by 19 smaller parties this compromise too has been dismissed by the courts.Had there been no threshold at the last elections in 2009, seven additional parties would have gained seats, including the Free Voters, the far-right Republicans, the animal rights party Human Environment Animal, the Pensioners party, the Family party and the anti-growth and pro-family Ecological Democratic party, whose chairman Sebastian Frankenberger told the Guardian that the court decision was \"a victory for democracy and for the citizens whose votes will no longer be wasted.\" The satirical party known as The Party has also announced its intentions to win a seat in May.But some commentators warned that the court's decision could condemn the European parliament to irrelevance. \"The danger is that it could encourage lots of individuals with an axe to grind to set up their own party,\" said Gero Neugebauer, a political scientist at Berlin's Otto-Suhr-Institute for Political Science. \"You won't just get loonies, but loonies who can pretend to have a political career without wielding any real political power.\"Others were less pessimistic. \"I don't think there will be a big chaos,\" said Nils Diederich of Berlin's Free University. \"The big parliamentary groups will work more closely together, and there will be new alliances between smaller parties. Making decisions may take longer, but that's not necessarily a bad thing.\"The party that will be affected most directly by the decision to scrap the 3% hurdle is Angela Merkel's CDU. Until now, the Christian Democrats have tried to counter the threat posed by the anti-euro party Alternative f\u00fcr Deutschland by allowing their Bavarian sister party, the CSU, to opt for a more eurosceptic tone. But with the AfD feeling emboldened by the court's decision, the chancellor's party may have to readjust its European strategy.\"We have to live with the judgment and the fact that splinter parties and radical elements from Germany will be represented in the EU parliament,\" said CDU MEP Markus Ferber. \"That's not a very pleasant situation.\"", "tags": ["Germany", "European elections", "Europe", "World news", "European Union"], "title": "Germany rules to abolish 3% threshold quota on European elections"},{"date": "2014-02-02T20:14:36Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has signalled it is preparing a third rescue package for Greece \u2013 provided the debt-stricken country implements \"rigorous\"austerity measures blamed for record levels of unemployment and a dramatic drop in GDP.The new loan, outlined in a five-page position paper by Berlin's finance ministry, would be worth between \u20ac10bn to \u20ac20bn (\u00a38bn-16bn), according to the German weekly Der Spiegel, which was leaked the document.Such an amount would chime with comments made by the German finance minister, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, who, in a separate interview due to be published on Monday insisted that any additional aid required by Athens would be \"far smaller\" than the \u20ac240bn it had received so far.\"What is sure is that any further aid would be much less expansive than whatever help [has been given] so far,\" he is quoted as telling the German finance magazine Wirtschaftswoche in what appears to be a calibrated move aimed at preparing public opinion.The renewed help follows revelations of clandestine talks between Sch\u00e4uble and leading EU figures over how to deal with Greece, which despite receiving the biggest bailout in global financial history, continues to remain the weakest link in the eurozone.The talks, said to have taken place on the sidelines of a Eurogroup meeting of eurozone finance ministers last week, are believed to have focused on the need to cover an impending shortfall in the country's financing and the reluctance Athens is displaying to enforce long overdue structural reforms. The lack of progress is at the root of stalled talks between Greece and its \"troika\" of creditors, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), European Central Bank and EU.Greece faces a financing gap of up to \u20ac15bn over the next two years, according to foreign creditors, which have kept its economy afloat since May 2010. As the EU's powerhouse, Berlin has bankrolled most of the emergency loans to date.But a German finance ministry spokesman, echoing similar statements by Sch\u00e4uble, denied that a further restructuring of Greece's staggering debt \u2013 this time by public creditors \u2013 was also on the cards.\"There is no new situation,\" said the spokesman referring to previous statements made by Sch\u00e4uble also rejecting the need for debt relief to be extended to recession-hit Greece.Most of the debt overhang now haunting the country belongs to European governments and at 176% of GDP \u2013 up from 120% of national output at the start of the crisis \u2013 is not only a barrier to investment but widely regarded as being at the root of its economic woes.\"They are missing the point: Greece does not need a third bailout, it needs debt restructuring,\" said the shadow development minister and economics professor, Giorgos Stathakis.\"Even in the IMF, logical people agree there is no way we can have any more fiscal adjustment when the whole thing has reached its limits,\" he said. \"There is simply no room for further cuts and further taxes and that is what they are going to ask for.\"He said the assistance was \"the wrong thing at the wrong time\". Unemployment is nudging 28% \u2013 and youth unemployment rate tops 60% \u2013 while economic recovery is still far from assured, despite the nation outperforming targets with the achievement of a primary budget surplus in 2013.The IMF has been increasingly at odds with Germany and other lenders over the need to write off Greece's debt. Confidential records, documenting minutes of meetings held to discuss the country's first bailout, reveal the level of discord among member states over the feasibility of the rescue programme. The IMF said last year that without additional debt relief by eurozone governments, Greece's debt burden could smother the country's economy.China, Brazil, Argentina, India, Egypt and Switzerland have been among the countries expressing grave doubts that the assistance would work, arguing that Greece might end up worse off after the austerity programme.", "tags": ["Germany", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial sector", "Business"], "title": "Germany preparing third financial rescue for Greece"},{"date": "2014-03-23T08:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "If Hitler were alive today, would he become a standup comic? Incredible though that may sound to anyone who lived through the second world war, that is the scenario sketched out in Look Who's Back, a satirical novel by Timur Vermes, which topped the bestseller lists in Germany after its publication in 2012 and is now about to be published in English.In the opening pages, Hitler wakes up on a building site in Berlin in 2011. His memory of how he got there is hazy: \"I think Eva and I chatted for a while, and I showed her my old pistol, but when I awoke I was unable to recall any further detail.\"The owner of a nearby kiosk recognises him \u2013 after all, 66 years after his death the man's face is still ubiquitous \u2013 and, assuming that Hitler is an extra from a new second world war film who is remaining resolutely in character (\"Bruno Ganz was superb, but he's not a patch on you\"), the kiosk owner hooks him up with a local comedy promoter.Hitler's first gig, the warm-up slot for a Turkish-German comic, goes down like a sinking U-boat. His dark rant about Muslims, abortion and plastic surgery has his audience gasping in shock. But gradually the performance gathers clicks on YouTube.Bestselling tabloid Bild demands an interview with the \"loony YouTube Hitler\" in which it tries to call his bluff. \"Is it true that you admire Adolf Hitler?\" asks the journalist. \"Only in the mirror in the morning,\" Adolf replies. Because Hitler does not adapt\u00a0to the 21st century and instead just continues to be the Hitler who died in 1945, no one can get a grip on\u00a0him.All the tabloids can do is express outrage, which means the more respectable broadsheets start to celebrate this unique method actor's \"improv\" act as a clever deconstruction of modern morals. Soon, the talkshow circuit beckons, then the leap into politics. Which prompts the question: will Hitler soon be back where he left off in 1945?Partly thanks to a massive marketing campaign involving popular comedian Christoph Maria Herbst, Look Who's Back (Er ist wieder da), with its cover depicting Hitler's block-like side-parted hair and toothbrush moustache, has sold more than 1.4m copies in print and audiobook in Germany. No mean feat, considering the hardback sold \u2013 in a knowing historical reference to the year the Nazi party leader came to power \u2013 for a hefty \u20ac19.33.Critics, though, have been underwhelmed. Some argued the novel \"trivialised\" the dictator's crimes by making the reader laugh not at, but also with him. Others felt the satire just didn't bite enough: \"A mediocre joke that suddenly got successful,\" as author and critic Daniel Erk put it.Vermes, a 47-year-old former ghostwriter with a German mother and a Hungarian father, brushes off such complaints: \"Books don't have to educate or turn people into better human beings \u2013 they can also just ask questions. If mine makes some readers realise that dictators aren't necessarily instantly recognisable as such, then I consider it a success.\"Vermes's hunch that a modern Hitler might find a home in comedy is by no means far-fetched. Almost 70 years after the end of the second world war, the web is awash with Hitler humour. Click on YouTube and you will find more than 100 videos made in recent years by satirists snatching clips from Downfall, the 2004 German movie of Hitler's demise, and doctoring them to tell a range of stories about personal travails and world politics. Watch Hitler erupt in frustration over his Xbox or flip out because his friends aren't going to Burning Man. This is the age of the \"Hipster Hitler\", run by a group of New Yorkers, in which the 21st-century, design-aware \"Hipster Hitler\" wears T-shirts that say \"Heilvetica\" and starts another beer-hall putsch because his local doesn't serve the latest craft beer. There is the website catsthatlooklikehitler.com, which has popularised the nickname Kitler for white cats with unfortunate black markings that make them look like the F\u00fchrer. Hitler's appearances in popular culture and the media, from advertisements to Google requests and the surface of toast, have become so pervasive that leftwing newspaper Taz until recently ran a dedicated Hitler blog on its website, keeping track of\u00a0them.Of course, in the right hands, the Nazis have always been comic. Charlie Chaplin's The Great Dictator set the benchmark for Hitler humour as far back as 1940 (though Vermes's Hitler thinks it's \"cheap and shoddy\" compared with the real deal).For the British, initially egged on in wartime to ridicule the F\u00fchrer by the Ministry of Information, Hitler humour was never really considered out of bounds. And since the war, the leader of the German fascist movement has made regular appearances in British comedy, his jerking body movements and violent outbursts reenacted eerily in Till Death Do Us Part, I'm All Right Jack and Fawlty Towers. He even ran for the Minehead by-election in Monty Python, circa 1970. As author Jacques Peretti once put it: \"Hitler was basically David Brent with clicky\u00a0heels.\"In Germany, there used to be more ambivalence about using the orchestrator of the Holocaust as a comic figure, although a compilation of jokes about the Nazi regime was one of the very first books to be published in postwar Germany. Showing that the nation had laughed about Hitler allowed people to claim that some had rebelled against the Nazis, even if those acts of rebellion had been restricted to a whispered punchline or stifled laughter.In 1949, the year of the foundation of modern Germany, West Berliners enjoyed a cabaret show by satirist G\u00fcnter Neumann called I Was Hitler's Moustache, about a Hitler body double who gets carried away with his new-found fame. Der Spiegel gave it an emphatic thumbs up: \"Hitler's first step on to a Berlin stage was laughed at loudly and at length.\" Laughing at Hitler was a way of showing you were on the right side.After the 1968 student protests ushered in a more critical stance towards not just the Nazi leader but the entire generation who had voted him in, it became harder to do comedy about Hitler without looking suspiciously like an apologist. Not having a German passport helped. George Tabori, the author of the first genuine Hitler satire to appear on a German stage, in 1988, was Hungarian. The play, simply called Mein Kampf, imagined a friendship between the young Hitler and a Jewish novelist, who primes him for a career in politics and designs his new look. \"There are some taboos that need to be broken unless we want to choke on them,\" Tabori later said.The book that in Germany truly ended the debate over whether it was \"OK to laugh about Hitler\" was an anarchic grotesque by cartoonist Walter Moers, published in 1998, in which the modern dictator starts an affair with G\u00f6ring, now specialising in domination on the Reeperbahn, and tries to take over the world with Princess Diana.Far from breaking any big taboos, Timur Vermes's novel may be a sign that Germany now looks at Hitler the way the rest of the world has already done for years: as a stock comic character. \"For decades, we learned to see him not as a human being but as a demon,\" says Klaus C\u00e4sar Zehrer, a German satirist and historian. \"Now that's changing, and he's tilting over into caricature: he used to be the ultimate villain, now he is the ultimate idiot.\"Increasingly, Zehrer says, Hitler satire is directed less and less at the Nazi period, and more at the few who still genuinely admire him. The funniest chapter of Look Who's Back has Hitler ridiculing the shambolic goings-on of the National Democratic party, the far-right outfit who many see as bearing the marks of Hitler's National Socialists.That particular chapter may well have been inspired by extra3, one of the few reliable funny comedy shows on German television, which allows a dubbed Hitler to rant about the ineffectiveness of the modern German far right. \"It works because for the neo-Nazis, this guy is still someone they look up to,\" says programme editor Andreas Lange.In 2008, Lange said his team considered letting Hitler rant about the Chinese Olympic opening ceremony too, but decided to scrap the segment. \"The problem with Hitler as a vehicle for satire is that you very quickly get tied up with comparisons you need to justify. We didn't want to use Hitler as if he was some pub circuit standup \u2013 there needed to be comedic\u00a0precision to his\u00a0contributions.\"At the beginning extra3 used to get regular complaints from viewers, but their number has decreased over the years. \"It has become increasingly difficult to provoke audiences with the Nazis. Jokes about animals and the church always get complaints \u2013 jokes about Hitler less and less so.\"Thomas Pigor, a cabaret performer who does a popular chanson about the F\u00fchrer's aftershave, maintains that the only way to still get any comic mileage out of the Hitler impressions these days is to explore the gap between cardboard cut-out madman and the private human being. \"When I do Hitler, I can't start out with the volume at full tilt \u2013 people wouldn't find that funny. I give him a low burr \u2013 that's where you get some comic potential, in the tension between monstrosity and\u00a0banality\".Vermes too says he had \"a curtailed idea of who Hitler was\" before writing his book. \"There is this 'instant Hitler' most people know, who is a bit like instant coffee, very one-dimensional.\"In search of a Hitler beyond the caricatures, he decided to read Mein Kampf for the first time. \"It's written in the style of someone who doesn't normally write: pompous and snivelling, lots of animal metaphors. If one word would do but Hitler knows three, he will use all three.\"But, he argues, the book was so dangerous precisely because it's not full of mad ideas. \"Some of it is fairly commonsensical. Take Hitler's thoughts on housing: he says young people need houses, so the state should build more houses. We can't declare that wrong simply because it was Hitler who said it.\"Vermes's modern Hitler, too, doesn't only spout repellent ideas that would instantly alienate the reader. On the one hand, he rails against parliamentary democracy, decries press freedom, and rejoices at the fact that 65 years after the end of the war, Germany's Jewish population is still only a fifth of what it was in 1933. But on the other, his complaints about hunting, food scandals and drivers racing through inner-city areas would fit perfectly into any modern party manifesto. \"That's why many readers thought my Hitler was too real: he was too normal,\" Vermes\u00a0says.The younger the reader, he says, the more they enjoyed his book. His mother, who was born in 1942, failed to see the funny side. \"'But that's what Hitler was like,' she said.\"Sometimes it feels like Vermes may have studied the ponderous style of his protagonist's memoir a bit too closely: for a comic novel, the opening chapters of Look Who's Back in particular can be a bit of a slog.And yet there's no question that the novel has hit upon the key paradox of our modern obsession with Hitler. In spite of his current ubiquity \u2013 in the media, in advertising, in film and in comedy \u2013 we are perhaps further than ever from understanding what he was like as a real human being, or how he was able to lead the German people to participate in the historic crime of the\u00a0Holocaust.Und \u00c4ktschn! (And Action!), a critically acclaimed comedy released in German cinemas last month, tells the story of an amateur film-maker trying to make a movie about Adolf Hitler's private life. In an interview with Der Spiegel, its director, veteran Bavarian satirist Gerhard Polt, argued that there must have been a likable side to Hitler \u2013 otherwise how could he have penetrated the salons of Munich high society? \"The likable guys are the dangerous ones. When a likable person gives you a hug and says something terrible, it's much harder to let go.\"Look Who's Back is published by MacLehose press on 3 April. Timur Vermes will be speaking at the Bristol festival of ideas, Foyles Cabot Circus, 1 April, 6.30pm. Tickets via ideasfestival.co.uk", "tags": ["Adolf Hitler", "Germany", "Fiction", "Second world war", "Fiction in translation", "Books", "Europe", "World news", "Culture"], "title": "Germany asks: is it OK to laugh at Hitler?"},{"date": "2014-03-04T09:02:18Z", "country": "germany", "content": " 9.02am GMT Small but important update. I\u2019ve amended the penultimate post from Thursday to give the Economist\u2019s executive editor his correct name - Daniel Franklin (not David). Apologies. 4.05pm GMT It\u2019s not really a subject which deserves a crude verdict: the idea was never to suggest we were foes, more to explore the often overlooked ties that bind and see how strong they really are.There is no doubt that German and British people who go abroad and meet each other find much in common - as they inevitably would, and hopefully would with many other nationalities. That there is surprise so often expressed at how much they have in common betrays the underlying issue, I\u2019d suggest.Today though there seems to be more reason than ever to explore much strong relationships between the two countries. I hesitate to say a special relationship because there is something exclusive and bullying about the term.Thanks so much for some great comments. Reality Check wont always lend itself to personal anecdotes, but I\u2019ve really enjoyed them and this time they were relevant!  4.01pm GMT There have been suggestions that the question about the UK and Germany being friends or foes is redundant or even insulting - some politely, by inference, others more - ahem - directly.There are too many good personal anecdotes and gentle chastisements about people getting on with people and nation states being an artificial construct to credit them all, but this was one of my favourites. It also happily deals with the issue of humour which I inexplicably forgot to mention, possibly because I laugh a lot with my friends from Germany.I remember reading somewhere that a traveller heard more laughter within two hours of arriving in Berlin than he/she had heard the previous two weeks in Paris. The truth is that the Germans are - to generalise wildly - a great bunch. They manage to run an efficient, de-centralised economy with workers' representatives often on corporate boards. Without much fuss, they integrated the lame duck former GDR and made a success of that. They make great beer and know how to enjoy themselves. Yes, they're patriotic but this doesn't spill into the demeaning jingoism stoked by the tabloids over here. They've also faced up to their responsibilities over WWII and, it could be argued, have actually gone too far. The poignant holocaust memorial in Berlin (next to the Brandenberg Gate) is a stunning acknowledgement of guilt planted right in the city centre. And, strange as it may seem, they actually like us...although are a little baffled by our obsession with WWII. I'd be proud to say 'Ich bin ein Berliner'. Tchuss.However I also spoke to Peter Littger, chairman of the King Edward VII British-German Foundation, a small charity dedicated to promoting better relations between the two different countries. He has just helped edit a book of essays on the subject, published by Granta in the UK, under the title \u2018Common Destiny vs. Marriage of Convenience - What do Britons and Germans want from Europe?\u2019The title borrows in part from an essay by the Economist\u2019s executive editor Daniel Franklin, \u2018Scenes from the British-German Marriage (marriage of not that much convenience)\u2019. Franklin gives a fly on the wall account of a summit of senior figures from both countries including business leaders and former diplomats, one which appears to have gone so badly that one member of the UK delegation is reported as saying \u201cwe\u2019re not moving apart, we\u2019re marching apart\u201d.Somehow, amongst the people that were once the \u201cglue\u201d between these two countries, something is going wrong, says Littger.\ufeffThe national character: there are differences that perhaps are part of the reason it\u2019s so difficult... There\u2019s this kinship and common history, and dynastic relationship, but [on] economic and social concepts we tend to think we know best and Brits tend to think they know it best\ufeff.Littger, too, however believes that Germany and the UK have many common interests - citing an unexpected but growing euro-scepticism in Germany, albeit within a strong commitment to staying in the EU.We need to keep open communication channels because everything can only get worse if we move apart.Updated at 9.01am GMT 2.42pm GMT I\u2019m still looking for a historian who can talk me through Anglo-Prussian relations before the world wars, which I think were very different. Meantime, I\u2019ve talked on the phone to Simon Green, professor of politics and co-director of the Aston Centre for Europe at Aston University in Birmingham, who has a particular interest in Anglo-German relations.The suggestion of a rivalry between the two countries is noticeably declining as the generations who lived through the two world wars give way to younger people for whom that has less cultural resonance, suggests Green. Now, the more important question is \u201chow much of a friend is Germany\u201d to the UK, says Green:Germany is absolutely critical, a key partner in the EU. From our perspective as a country look around you in Europe: who is going to be the country which is closest to Britain in our trading interests, in our interests in free markets? It\u2019s going to be Germany. It\u2019s not going to be France, Italy or Spain... All those countries have got different traditions in terms of how the state operates, particularly France. The German way of ordo-liberalism - that the state sets the rules of the game but doesn\u2019t interfere in markets beyond that\ufeff - that\u2019s something that resonates well in the UK.We might prefer to go on holiday to France, Spain or Italy - as the Germans do too - but in other EU matters the UK and Germany have similar approaches to important issues such as migration, foreign policy and security, suggests Green. Labour market policy is perhaps a notable exception. Interestingly, in the UK we are marking the 100th anniversary of the start of World War I, and the 75th anniversary of World War II, while in Germany there is discussion of the 300th anniversary of the King of Hannover becoming King George I. 12.50pm GMT Two reasons we should keep being friendly with Germany: they are the world\u2019s second biggest buyer of UK exports (though experts might be able to tell me if this is skewed by goods passing in and quickly out of their ports) and the biggest source of UK imports.These charts are from HM Revenue and Customs figures for trade in the year to December 2013. The full report is here. 12.17pm GMT An interesting debate below the line about whether the question itself is childish and out of date, or still valid:Are we still rolling out this sort of juvenile type of polling? Can we really be friends??!! Can we remember the War/penalty shootouts and still get on yes - its possible really!! We have had a good relationship with Germany for over a generation so lets move on from this stereotypical backward approach and understand that many people are now so well travelled in Europe and have multi-international ties with many people in many countries. Guardian you can do better than this!!In reply, britwatch recounts a disquieting experience of brining a group of German school children to the UK:Your stereotypically trite response shows that like so many you are in denial regarding the complexities of this issue.Educationalists and historians in the UK have nurtured a clear black-and-white narrative on the world wars: the British were the heroes and the Germans were inhuman incarnations of unimaginable evil. That' s easy to teach and is generally satisfying to hear. War is on the obligatory syllabus of schoolchildren as young as ?seven or eight (correct me on age.) Nothing that has happened in Germany in the last seventy years makes for such a good story.Going round the Imperial War Museum of the North one morning with a group of 15-16 year-old German girls, we encountered three British primary school groups doing project work on 'War'. Two kids from one of the groups asked some of my pupils what language they were speaking. When they heard they were Germans, they ran away shrieking in genuine terror. Although I had tried to prepare my pupils for this sort of encounter, which has become increasingly common in the last ten to fifteen years, the girls were left in tears, deeply shocked that children so young were being brainwashed into being afraid of them. I could continue and list all the similar unpleasant und uncomfortable encounters over the years. It is a problem I have discussed on more than one occasion with head teachers in the UK but most react like jiveboy and pretend it is all a figment of the imagination.Germans eventually get used to it. I personally think it is nevertheless extremely dangerous to teach young children this kind of racism. It could be something the UK lives to regret. 12.06pm GMT Our Berlin correspondent Philip Oltermann has sent me some interesting, nuanced thoughts on the subject by email.He wrote a piece for the Guardian this year comparing the Anglo-German relationship with the recently reinvigorated Franco-German ties. There are so many institutional projects that France and Germany work on together, like the joint TV channel Arte, the Franco-German University, and the annual joint cabinet session last month. Talking to government people about the Merkel visit, they all say that in particular Merkel\u2019s people have a lot more in common with Britain than France, but they get the chance to talk to the French more often, and more informally, whereas conversation with Britain is always done via loudspeaker, through the press.On a more informal note, Oltermann adds:While relations between Merkel and Cameron appear by all accounts to be in pretty good shape and they are said to like each other, Anglo-German relations at the other end have been neglected for years. I did this about the decline of twin towns and school exchanges recently, which made for quite depressing research.At the sports and culture end, I think it\u2019s fair to say there has been a bit of a shift. Germany has always been Anglophile, relatively speaking, and especially so in the 90s and noughties, when Schroeder tried to copy Blair and Cool Britannia was in vogue. Now the Germans have cooled on British culture a bit, whereas German art (see exhbition at the National, Saatchi, etc), German music (Kraftwerk selling out Turbine Hall), and German footballers (I bet there are more German players in the Premier League now than ever before) are all the rage. 11.39am GMT We might as well get this over and done with early in the day. Our national football rivalry kicked off in 1930 with a draw: since then the Germans are ahead in the stats, but only by a nose. George Arnett on our data team has done battle with the FIFA website and totted up the results in international tournaments, qualifiers and friendlies since then. And the results are:Two of those Germany wins were on penalties. So yes, if penalty shoot-outs were scratched from the rule book, we\u2019d be evens.  11.12am GMT It\u2019s nice to start on a positive note. This from the Germany Embassy yesterday: Ahead of tomorrow's visit by Chllr #Merkel, @yougov finds British public opinion on Germany \"strongly positive\" - http://t.co/v5CuTILCMTThe research by polling company YouGov is titled \u201cHurrah For Ze Germans!\u201d and reports: Fully 59% of British people have a positive opinion of Germany, including the majority of supporters from all three main parties, and even 50% of those supporting UKIP, a Eurosceptic party. Only 9% of people have negative views of Germany.\ufeff 11.03am GMT Angela Merkel, the German chancelllor, flies into the UK today for a high profile visit, including tea with he Queen and an address to both Houses of Parliament. This treatment is usually reserved for visiting heads of state, as previewed in today\u2019s Guardian by my colleagues Nicholas Watt and Philip Oltermann.The visit itself, including any briefings from official meetings and a press conference with Merkel and David Cameron, are being followed by the incomparable Andrew Sparrow on his Politics Live blog.Today\u2019s visit contrasts strongly with the pub lunch offered to the French president Francois Hollande in January.Is Cameron\u2019s government desperate to make a powerful friend in the EU? Or is it a reminder that despite two big wars and too many football penalties, the two countries have a lot in common?Help us to round up those football scores, flick back through the history books, test those political and economic ties, or simply share your experiences. Get in touch on Twitter @JulietteJowit, by email to juliette.jowit@theguardian.com and, of course, below the line. I remembered to turn on the comments today....", "tags": ["Germany", "Politics", "Football", "Angela Merkel", "David Cameron"], "title": "UK and Germany: are we more natural friends than foes? | Juliette Jowit"},{"date": "2014-02-26T19:39:56Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The European parliament could become a squabbling ground for \"loonies and lobbyists\", observers warned after a German court on Wednesday ruled against a voting threshold at European elections.The president of the federal court, Andreas Vosskuhle, ruled on Wednesday that the 3% entry hurdle violated the constitution and had stopped parties from getting a fair hearing. The ruling will come into effect immediately and apply to the European elections in May, where Germany will elect 96 MEPs for the next parliamentary term \u2013 the highest number of seats of all member states.Sixteen out of 29 EU countries, including Britain, have no threshold quotas for European elections, but the issue is an unusually politically loaded one in Germany: a 5% hurdle was introduced for the national parliament in 1949 with a view to making the raucous parliamentary squabbles of the Weimar Republic a thing of the past.Germany's proportional system has encouraged the creation of an unusually high number of smaller parties. While the Pirate party, the anti-euro Alternative f\u00fcr Deutschland and the far-right NPD are the three most prominent parties likely to gain from the changes, a number of smaller splinter groups and single-issue parties will be hoping for seats in Strasbourg and Brussels too.The head of the Pirate party, which is currently represented in the European Parliament via its Swedish branch, said the decision would guarantee that citizens' votes \"wouldn't again fall under the table\".The NPD, over whom the upper body of the Germany parliament is currently seeking a ban, called the court's decision a \"phenomenal victory\" and confidently announced on its website that its entry into the European parliament was now \"not just likely, but a certainty\".At previous European elections, German parties had to overcome a 5% hurdle, which the federal court had ruled unlawful in 2011. Last year, the German parliament had proposed replacing the 5% hurdle with 3%, but after complaints by 19 smaller parties this compromise too has been dismissed by the courts.Had there been no threshold at the last elections in 2009, seven additional parties would have gained seats, including the Free Voters, the far-right Republicans, the animal rights party Human Environment Animal, the Pensioners party, the Family party and the anti-growth and pro-family Ecological Democratic party, whose chairman Sebastian Frankenberger told the Guardian that the court decision was \"a victory for democracy and for the citizens whose votes will no longer be wasted.\" The satirical party known as The Party has also announced its intentions to win a seat in May.But some commentators warned that the court's decision could condemn the European parliament to irrelevance. \"The danger is that it could encourage lots of individuals with an axe to grind to set up their own party,\" said Gero Neugebauer, a political scientist at Berlin's Otto-Suhr-Institute for Political Science. \"You won't just get loonies, but loonies who can pretend to have a political career without wielding any real political power.\"Others were less pessimistic. \"I don't think there will be a big chaos,\" said Nils Diederich of Berlin's Free University. \"The big parliamentary groups will work more closely together, and there will be new alliances between smaller parties. Making decisions may take longer, but that's not necessarily a bad thing.\"The party that will be affected most directly by the decision to scrap the 3% hurdle is Angela Merkel's CDU. Until now, the Christian Democrats have tried to counter the threat posed by the anti-euro party Alternative f\u00fcr Deutschland by allowing their Bavarian sister party, the CSU, to opt for a more eurosceptic tone. But with the AfD feeling emboldened by the court's decision, the chancellor's party may have to readjust its European strategy.\"We have to live with the judgment and the fact that splinter parties and radical elements from Germany will be represented in the EU parliament,\" said CDU MEP Markus Ferber. \"That's not a very pleasant situation.\"", "tags": ["Germany", "European elections", "Europe", "World news", "European Union"], "title": "Germany rules to abolish 3% threshold quota on European elections"},{"date": "2014-01-27T21:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The loss of trust in the European Union presents a \"great danger\" as opponents resort to \"nationalist rhetoric sung to the catchy tune of criticism of Europe\", the German foreign minister has warned.In a Guardian article to mark the centenary of the first world war, Frank-Walter Steinmeier calls on Britain to acknowledge that the EU has made a European war \"unimaginable\".The intervention by Steinmeier, one of the senior SPD figures appointed to Angela Merkel's new grand coalition cabinet, comes as David Cameron moves to head off a rebellion by Tory backbenchers who want to put Britain in breach of its EU obligations by re-imposing work restrictions on Romanians and Bulgarians until 2018.Tory MPs reacted angrily after the home secretary, Theresa May, tabled 50 amendments \u2013 many of a highly technical nature \u2013 to the immigration bill for debate on Thursday. This means MPs are highly unlikely to have time to vote on the main rebel amendment.The prime minister said that immigration from Romania and Bulgaria had been at a \"reasonable level\" after transitional controls on access for workers were lifted on 1 January on the seventh anniversary of their accession to the EU in 2007. But Mark Reckless, a Tory member of the Commons home affairs select committee who supports the rebel amendment to re-introduce the transitional controls on Romanian and Bulgarian workers until 2018, said his ultimate objective was to end Britain's membership of the EU.Reckless told The World at One on BBC Radio 4: \"I would like to leave the EU. I think we would be better off as an independent country trading with Europe but governing ourselves.\"In his Guardian article, the German foreign minister indicated that he had hardline Eurosceptics in mind when he called on critics to bear in mind that Europe had found a way of resolving its differences peacefully. Steinmeier writes: \"For some, the pursuit of compromises around negotiating tables in Brussels is too arduous, protracted and unwieldy. This commemorative year reminds us of the importance of remaining aware of what an achievement of civilisation it is that EU states, once opponents in numerous conflicts, can spend long nights seeking joint solutions in a peaceful and civilised manner.\"The foreign minister, who was careful not to name British Eurosceptics, said the growing opposition to the EU was dangerous. He said: \"The loss of trust in the European project which has accompanied the economic crisis in Europe, particularly prominent in the young generation hit by unemployment and the lack of prospects in large parts of the EU, holds great danger. In such an atmosphere, it is easy to fall back on nationalist rhetoric, sung to the catchy tune of criticism of Europe. Given our history, we must firmly resist this.\"The article by Steinmeier is the first intervention by a German minister since Michael Gove criticised \"leftwing academics\" and dramas such as Blackadder that he said depicted the first world war as \"a series of catastrophic mistakes perpetrated by an out-of-touch elite\". In a Daily Mail article earlier this month, Gove described it as a \"plainly just war\" against German aggression. He wrote: \"The ruthless social Darwinism of the German elites, the pitiless approach they took to occupation, their aggressively expansionist war aims and their scorn for the international order all made resistance more than justified.\"Steinmeier said all sides shared the blame for the collapse of the fragile balance of power in Europe in the summer of 1914 as he wrote of \"a disturbing tale of the failure of the governing elites and the military, but also of diplomacy\". But he was highly critical of the conduct of Berlin. \"In Berlin, instead of de-escalation and understanding, the lust for escalation prevailed.\"May was criticised by Tory MPs for tabling so many technical amendments to the immigration bill on Thursday that it will be all but impossible to debate and vote on the main rebel amendment on Romania and Bulgaria. Peter Bone, the rightwing MP for Wellingborough, challenged May in the Commons to give MPs more than the four hours allocated for the report and third reading of the bill on Thursday.May replied: \"I recognise that there are a significant number of government amendments. They are mainly small and technical but, like [you], I would prefer that we did not have to bring so many technical amendments to the house at this stage.\"David Hanson, the shadow Home Office minister, announced that Labour would support an amendment tabled by the Tory backbencher Stephen Phillips to offer greater transparency about the impact of migration from future EU member states. The amendment would oblige a future government to publish an estimate of the number of migrants from future member states when it negotiated accession treaties.", "tags": ["European Union", "First world war", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Politics"], "title": "Germany: loss of trust in EU is 'great danger'"},{"date": "2014-02-02T20:14:36Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has signalled it is preparing a third rescue package for Greece \u2013 provided the debt-stricken country implements \"rigorous\"austerity measures blamed for record levels of unemployment and a dramatic drop in GDP.The new loan, outlined in a five-page position paper by Berlin's finance ministry, would be worth between \u20ac10bn to \u20ac20bn (\u00a38bn-16bn), according to the German weekly Der Spiegel, which was leaked the document.Such an amount would chime with comments made by the German finance minister, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, who, in a separate interview due to be published on Monday insisted that any additional aid required by Athens would be \"far smaller\" than the \u20ac240bn it had received so far.\"What is sure is that any further aid would be much less expansive than whatever help [has been given] so far,\" he is quoted as telling the German finance magazine Wirtschaftswoche in what appears to be a calibrated move aimed at preparing public opinion.The renewed help follows revelations of clandestine talks between Sch\u00e4uble and leading EU figures over how to deal with Greece, which despite receiving the biggest bailout in global financial history, continues to remain the weakest link in the eurozone.The talks, said to have taken place on the sidelines of a Eurogroup meeting of eurozone finance ministers last week, are believed to have focused on the need to cover an impending shortfall in the country's financing and the reluctance Athens is displaying to enforce long overdue structural reforms. The lack of progress is at the root of stalled talks between Greece and its \"troika\" of creditors, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), European Central Bank and EU.Greece faces a financing gap of up to \u20ac15bn over the next two years, according to foreign creditors, which have kept its economy afloat since May 2010. As the EU's powerhouse, Berlin has bankrolled most of the emergency loans to date.But a German finance ministry spokesman, echoing similar statements by Sch\u00e4uble, denied that a further restructuring of Greece's staggering debt \u2013 this time by public creditors \u2013 was also on the cards.\"There is no new situation,\" said the spokesman referring to previous statements made by Sch\u00e4uble also rejecting the need for debt relief to be extended to recession-hit Greece.Most of the debt overhang now haunting the country belongs to European governments and at 176% of GDP \u2013 up from 120% of national output at the start of the crisis \u2013 is not only a barrier to investment but widely regarded as being at the root of its economic woes.\"They are missing the point: Greece does not need a third bailout, it needs debt restructuring,\" said the shadow development minister and economics professor, Giorgos Stathakis.\"Even in the IMF, logical people agree there is no way we can have any more fiscal adjustment when the whole thing has reached its limits,\" he said. \"There is simply no room for further cuts and further taxes and that is what they are going to ask for.\"He said the assistance was \"the wrong thing at the wrong time\". Unemployment is nudging 28% \u2013 and youth unemployment rate tops 60% \u2013 while economic recovery is still far from assured, despite the nation outperforming targets with the achievement of a primary budget surplus in 2013.The IMF has been increasingly at odds with Germany and other lenders over the need to write off Greece's debt. Confidential records, documenting minutes of meetings held to discuss the country's first bailout, reveal the level of discord among member states over the feasibility of the rescue programme. The IMF said last year that without additional debt relief by eurozone governments, Greece's debt burden could smother the country's economy.China, Brazil, Argentina, India, Egypt and Switzerland have been among the countries expressing grave doubts that the assistance would work, arguing that Greece might end up worse off after the austerity programme.", "tags": ["Germany", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial sector", "Business"], "title": "Germany preparing third financial rescue for Greece"},{"date": "2014-03-23T08:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "If Hitler were alive today, would he become a standup comic? Incredible though that may sound to anyone who lived through the second world war, that is the scenario sketched out in Look Who's Back, a satirical novel by Timur Vermes, which topped the bestseller lists in Germany after its publication in 2012 and is now about to be published in English.In the opening pages, Hitler wakes up on a building site in Berlin in 2011. His memory of how he got there is hazy: \"I think Eva and I chatted for a while, and I showed her my old pistol, but when I awoke I was unable to recall any further detail.\"The owner of a nearby kiosk recognises him \u2013 after all, 66 years after his death the man's face is still ubiquitous \u2013 and, assuming that Hitler is an extra from a new second world war film who is remaining resolutely in character (\"Bruno Ganz was superb, but he's not a patch on you\"), the kiosk owner hooks him up with a local comedy promoter.Hitler's first gig, the warm-up slot for a Turkish-German comic, goes down like a sinking U-boat. His dark rant about Muslims, abortion and plastic surgery has his audience gasping in shock. But gradually the performance gathers clicks on YouTube.Bestselling tabloid Bild demands an interview with the \"loony YouTube Hitler\" in which it tries to call his bluff. \"Is it true that you admire Adolf Hitler?\" asks the journalist. \"Only in the mirror in the morning,\" Adolf replies. Because Hitler does not adapt\u00a0to the 21st century and instead just continues to be the Hitler who died in 1945, no one can get a grip on\u00a0him.All the tabloids can do is express outrage, which means the more respectable broadsheets start to celebrate this unique method actor's \"improv\" act as a clever deconstruction of modern morals. Soon, the talkshow circuit beckons, then the leap into politics. Which prompts the question: will Hitler soon be back where he left off in 1945?Partly thanks to a massive marketing campaign involving popular comedian Christoph Maria Herbst, Look Who's Back (Er ist wieder da), with its cover depicting Hitler's block-like side-parted hair and toothbrush moustache, has sold more than 1.4m copies in print and audiobook in Germany. No mean feat, considering the hardback sold \u2013 in a knowing historical reference to the year the Nazi party leader came to power \u2013 for a hefty \u20ac19.33.Critics, though, have been underwhelmed. Some argued the novel \"trivialised\" the dictator's crimes by making the reader laugh not at, but also with him. Others felt the satire just didn't bite enough: \"A mediocre joke that suddenly got successful,\" as author and critic Daniel Erk put it.Vermes, a 47-year-old former ghostwriter with a German mother and a Hungarian father, brushes off such complaints: \"Books don't have to educate or turn people into better human beings \u2013 they can also just ask questions. If mine makes some readers realise that dictators aren't necessarily instantly recognisable as such, then I consider it a success.\"Vermes's hunch that a modern Hitler might find a home in comedy is by no means far-fetched. Almost 70 years after the end of the second world war, the web is awash with Hitler humour. Click on YouTube and you will find more than 100 videos made in recent years by satirists snatching clips from Downfall, the 2004 German movie of Hitler's demise, and doctoring them to tell a range of stories about personal travails and world politics. Watch Hitler erupt in frustration over his Xbox or flip out because his friends aren't going to Burning Man. This is the age of the \"Hipster Hitler\", run by a group of New Yorkers, in which the 21st-century, design-aware \"Hipster Hitler\" wears T-shirts that say \"Heilvetica\" and starts another beer-hall putsch because his local doesn't serve the latest craft beer. There is the website catsthatlooklikehitler.com, which has popularised the nickname Kitler for white cats with unfortunate black markings that make them look like the F\u00fchrer. Hitler's appearances in popular culture and the media, from advertisements to Google requests and the surface of toast, have become so pervasive that leftwing newspaper Taz until recently ran a dedicated Hitler blog on its website, keeping track of\u00a0them.Of course, in the right hands, the Nazis have always been comic. Charlie Chaplin's The Great Dictator set the benchmark for Hitler humour as far back as 1940 (though Vermes's Hitler thinks it's \"cheap and shoddy\" compared with the real deal).For the British, initially egged on in wartime to ridicule the F\u00fchrer by the Ministry of Information, Hitler humour was never really considered out of bounds. And since the war, the leader of the German fascist movement has made regular appearances in British comedy, his jerking body movements and violent outbursts reenacted eerily in Till Death Do Us Part, I'm All Right Jack and Fawlty Towers. He even ran for the Minehead by-election in Monty Python, circa 1970. As author Jacques Peretti once put it: \"Hitler was basically David Brent with clicky\u00a0heels.\"In Germany, there used to be more ambivalence about using the orchestrator of the Holocaust as a comic figure, although a compilation of jokes about the Nazi regime was one of the very first books to be published in postwar Germany. Showing that the nation had laughed about Hitler allowed people to claim that some had rebelled against the Nazis, even if those acts of rebellion had been restricted to a whispered punchline or stifled laughter.In 1949, the year of the foundation of modern Germany, West Berliners enjoyed a cabaret show by satirist G\u00fcnter Neumann called I Was Hitler's Moustache, about a Hitler body double who gets carried away with his new-found fame. Der Spiegel gave it an emphatic thumbs up: \"Hitler's first step on to a Berlin stage was laughed at loudly and at length.\" Laughing at Hitler was a way of showing you were on the right side.After the 1968 student protests ushered in a more critical stance towards not just the Nazi leader but the entire generation who had voted him in, it became harder to do comedy about Hitler without looking suspiciously like an apologist. Not having a German passport helped. George Tabori, the author of the first genuine Hitler satire to appear on a German stage, in 1988, was Hungarian. The play, simply called Mein Kampf, imagined a friendship between the young Hitler and a Jewish novelist, who primes him for a career in politics and designs his new look. \"There are some taboos that need to be broken unless we want to choke on them,\" Tabori later said.The book that in Germany truly ended the debate over whether it was \"OK to laugh about Hitler\" was an anarchic grotesque by cartoonist Walter Moers, published in 1998, in which the modern dictator starts an affair with G\u00f6ring, now specialising in domination on the Reeperbahn, and tries to take over the world with Princess Diana.Far from breaking any big taboos, Timur Vermes's novel may be a sign that Germany now looks at Hitler the way the rest of the world has already done for years: as a stock comic character. \"For decades, we learned to see him not as a human being but as a demon,\" says Klaus C\u00e4sar Zehrer, a German satirist and historian. \"Now that's changing, and he's tilting over into caricature: he used to be the ultimate villain, now he is the ultimate idiot.\"Increasingly, Zehrer says, Hitler satire is directed less and less at the Nazi period, and more at the few who still genuinely admire him. The funniest chapter of Look Who's Back has Hitler ridiculing the shambolic goings-on of the National Democratic party, the far-right outfit who many see as bearing the marks of Hitler's National Socialists.That particular chapter may well have been inspired by extra3, one of the few reliable funny comedy shows on German television, which allows a dubbed Hitler to rant about the ineffectiveness of the modern German far right. \"It works because for the neo-Nazis, this guy is still someone they look up to,\" says programme editor Andreas Lange.In 2008, Lange said his team considered letting Hitler rant about the Chinese Olympic opening ceremony too, but decided to scrap the segment. \"The problem with Hitler as a vehicle for satire is that you very quickly get tied up with comparisons you need to justify. We didn't want to use Hitler as if he was some pub circuit standup \u2013 there needed to be comedic\u00a0precision to his\u00a0contributions.\"At the beginning extra3 used to get regular complaints from viewers, but their number has decreased over the years. \"It has become increasingly difficult to provoke audiences with the Nazis. Jokes about animals and the church always get complaints \u2013 jokes about Hitler less and less so.\"Thomas Pigor, a cabaret performer who does a popular chanson about the F\u00fchrer's aftershave, maintains that the only way to still get any comic mileage out of the Hitler impressions these days is to explore the gap between cardboard cut-out madman and the private human being. \"When I do Hitler, I can't start out with the volume at full tilt \u2013 people wouldn't find that funny. I give him a low burr \u2013 that's where you get some comic potential, in the tension between monstrosity and\u00a0banality\".Vermes too says he had \"a curtailed idea of who Hitler was\" before writing his book. \"There is this 'instant Hitler' most people know, who is a bit like instant coffee, very one-dimensional.\"In search of a Hitler beyond the caricatures, he decided to read Mein Kampf for the first time. \"It's written in the style of someone who doesn't normally write: pompous and snivelling, lots of animal metaphors. If one word would do but Hitler knows three, he will use all three.\"But, he argues, the book was so dangerous precisely because it's not full of mad ideas. \"Some of it is fairly commonsensical. Take Hitler's thoughts on housing: he says young people need houses, so the state should build more houses. We can't declare that wrong simply because it was Hitler who said it.\"Vermes's modern Hitler, too, doesn't only spout repellent ideas that would instantly alienate the reader. On the one hand, he rails against parliamentary democracy, decries press freedom, and rejoices at the fact that 65 years after the end of the war, Germany's Jewish population is still only a fifth of what it was in 1933. But on the other, his complaints about hunting, food scandals and drivers racing through inner-city areas would fit perfectly into any modern party manifesto. \"That's why many readers thought my Hitler was too real: he was too normal,\" Vermes\u00a0says.The younger the reader, he says, the more they enjoyed his book. His mother, who was born in 1942, failed to see the funny side. \"'But that's what Hitler was like,' she said.\"Sometimes it feels like Vermes may have studied the ponderous style of his protagonist's memoir a bit too closely: for a comic novel, the opening chapters of Look Who's Back in particular can be a bit of a slog.And yet there's no question that the novel has hit upon the key paradox of our modern obsession with Hitler. In spite of his current ubiquity \u2013 in the media, in advertising, in film and in comedy \u2013 we are perhaps further than ever from understanding what he was like as a real human being, or how he was able to lead the German people to participate in the historic crime of the\u00a0Holocaust.Und \u00c4ktschn! (And Action!), a critically acclaimed comedy released in German cinemas last month, tells the story of an amateur film-maker trying to make a movie about Adolf Hitler's private life. In an interview with Der Spiegel, its director, veteran Bavarian satirist Gerhard Polt, argued that there must have been a likable side to Hitler \u2013 otherwise how could he have penetrated the salons of Munich high society? \"The likable guys are the dangerous ones. When a likable person gives you a hug and says something terrible, it's much harder to let go.\"Look Who's Back is published by MacLehose press on 3 April. Timur Vermes will be speaking at the Bristol festival of ideas, Foyles Cabot Circus, 1 April, 6.30pm. Tickets via ideasfestival.co.uk", "tags": ["Adolf Hitler", "Germany", "Fiction", "Second world war", "Fiction in translation", "Books", "Europe", "World news", "Culture"], "title": "Germany asks: is it OK to laugh at Hitler?"},{"date": "2014-03-04T09:02:18Z", "country": "germany", "content": " 9.02am GMT Small but important update. I\u2019ve amended the penultimate post from Thursday to give the Economist\u2019s executive editor his correct name - Daniel Franklin (not David). Apologies. 4.05pm GMT It\u2019s not really a subject which deserves a crude verdict: the idea was never to suggest we were foes, more to explore the often overlooked ties that bind and see how strong they really are.There is no doubt that German and British people who go abroad and meet each other find much in common - as they inevitably would, and hopefully would with many other nationalities. That there is surprise so often expressed at how much they have in common betrays the underlying issue, I\u2019d suggest.Today though there seems to be more reason than ever to explore much strong relationships between the two countries. I hesitate to say a special relationship because there is something exclusive and bullying about the term.Thanks so much for some great comments. Reality Check wont always lend itself to personal anecdotes, but I\u2019ve really enjoyed them and this time they were relevant!  4.01pm GMT There have been suggestions that the question about the UK and Germany being friends or foes is redundant or even insulting - some politely, by inference, others more - ahem - directly.There are too many good personal anecdotes and gentle chastisements about people getting on with people and nation states being an artificial construct to credit them all, but this was one of my favourites. It also happily deals with the issue of humour which I inexplicably forgot to mention, possibly because I laugh a lot with my friends from Germany.I remember reading somewhere that a traveller heard more laughter within two hours of arriving in Berlin than he/she had heard the previous two weeks in Paris. The truth is that the Germans are - to generalise wildly - a great bunch. They manage to run an efficient, de-centralised economy with workers' representatives often on corporate boards. Without much fuss, they integrated the lame duck former GDR and made a success of that. They make great beer and know how to enjoy themselves. Yes, they're patriotic but this doesn't spill into the demeaning jingoism stoked by the tabloids over here. They've also faced up to their responsibilities over WWII and, it could be argued, have actually gone too far. The poignant holocaust memorial in Berlin (next to the Brandenberg Gate) is a stunning acknowledgement of guilt planted right in the city centre. And, strange as it may seem, they actually like us...although are a little baffled by our obsession with WWII. I'd be proud to say 'Ich bin ein Berliner'. Tchuss.However I also spoke to Peter Littger, chairman of the King Edward VII British-German Foundation, a small charity dedicated to promoting better relations between the two different countries. He has just helped edit a book of essays on the subject, published by Granta in the UK, under the title \u2018Common Destiny vs. Marriage of Convenience - What do Britons and Germans want from Europe?\u2019The title borrows in part from an essay by the Economist\u2019s executive editor Daniel Franklin, \u2018Scenes from the British-German Marriage (marriage of not that much convenience)\u2019. Franklin gives a fly on the wall account of a summit of senior figures from both countries including business leaders and former diplomats, one which appears to have gone so badly that one member of the UK delegation is reported as saying \u201cwe\u2019re not moving apart, we\u2019re marching apart\u201d.Somehow, amongst the people that were once the \u201cglue\u201d between these two countries, something is going wrong, says Littger.\ufeffThe national character: there are differences that perhaps are part of the reason it\u2019s so difficult... There\u2019s this kinship and common history, and dynastic relationship, but [on] economic and social concepts we tend to think we know best and Brits tend to think they know it best\ufeff.Littger, too, however believes that Germany and the UK have many common interests - citing an unexpected but growing euro-scepticism in Germany, albeit within a strong commitment to staying in the EU.We need to keep open communication channels because everything can only get worse if we move apart.Updated at 9.01am GMT 2.42pm GMT I\u2019m still looking for a historian who can talk me through Anglo-Prussian relations before the world wars, which I think were very different. Meantime, I\u2019ve talked on the phone to Simon Green, professor of politics and co-director of the Aston Centre for Europe at Aston University in Birmingham, who has a particular interest in Anglo-German relations.The suggestion of a rivalry between the two countries is noticeably declining as the generations who lived through the two world wars give way to younger people for whom that has less cultural resonance, suggests Green. Now, the more important question is \u201chow much of a friend is Germany\u201d to the UK, says Green:Germany is absolutely critical, a key partner in the EU. From our perspective as a country look around you in Europe: who is going to be the country which is closest to Britain in our trading interests, in our interests in free markets? It\u2019s going to be Germany. It\u2019s not going to be France, Italy or Spain... All those countries have got different traditions in terms of how the state operates, particularly France. The German way of ordo-liberalism - that the state sets the rules of the game but doesn\u2019t interfere in markets beyond that\ufeff - that\u2019s something that resonates well in the UK.We might prefer to go on holiday to France, Spain or Italy - as the Germans do too - but in other EU matters the UK and Germany have similar approaches to important issues such as migration, foreign policy and security, suggests Green. Labour market policy is perhaps a notable exception. Interestingly, in the UK we are marking the 100th anniversary of the start of World War I, and the 75th anniversary of World War II, while in Germany there is discussion of the 300th anniversary of the King of Hannover becoming King George I. 12.50pm GMT Two reasons we should keep being friendly with Germany: they are the world\u2019s second biggest buyer of UK exports (though experts might be able to tell me if this is skewed by goods passing in and quickly out of their ports) and the biggest source of UK imports.These charts are from HM Revenue and Customs figures for trade in the year to December 2013. The full report is here. 12.17pm GMT An interesting debate below the line about whether the question itself is childish and out of date, or still valid:Are we still rolling out this sort of juvenile type of polling? Can we really be friends??!! Can we remember the War/penalty shootouts and still get on yes - its possible really!! We have had a good relationship with Germany for over a generation so lets move on from this stereotypical backward approach and understand that many people are now so well travelled in Europe and have multi-international ties with many people in many countries. Guardian you can do better than this!!In reply, britwatch recounts a disquieting experience of brining a group of German school children to the UK:Your stereotypically trite response shows that like so many you are in denial regarding the complexities of this issue.Educationalists and historians in the UK have nurtured a clear black-and-white narrative on the world wars: the British were the heroes and the Germans were inhuman incarnations of unimaginable evil. That' s easy to teach and is generally satisfying to hear. War is on the obligatory syllabus of schoolchildren as young as ?seven or eight (correct me on age.) Nothing that has happened in Germany in the last seventy years makes for such a good story.Going round the Imperial War Museum of the North one morning with a group of 15-16 year-old German girls, we encountered three British primary school groups doing project work on 'War'. Two kids from one of the groups asked some of my pupils what language they were speaking. When they heard they were Germans, they ran away shrieking in genuine terror. Although I had tried to prepare my pupils for this sort of encounter, which has become increasingly common in the last ten to fifteen years, the girls were left in tears, deeply shocked that children so young were being brainwashed into being afraid of them. I could continue and list all the similar unpleasant und uncomfortable encounters over the years. It is a problem I have discussed on more than one occasion with head teachers in the UK but most react like jiveboy and pretend it is all a figment of the imagination.Germans eventually get used to it. I personally think it is nevertheless extremely dangerous to teach young children this kind of racism. It could be something the UK lives to regret. 12.06pm GMT Our Berlin correspondent Philip Oltermann has sent me some interesting, nuanced thoughts on the subject by email.He wrote a piece for the Guardian this year comparing the Anglo-German relationship with the recently reinvigorated Franco-German ties. There are so many institutional projects that France and Germany work on together, like the joint TV channel Arte, the Franco-German University, and the annual joint cabinet session last month. Talking to government people about the Merkel visit, they all say that in particular Merkel\u2019s people have a lot more in common with Britain than France, but they get the chance to talk to the French more often, and more informally, whereas conversation with Britain is always done via loudspeaker, through the press.On a more informal note, Oltermann adds:While relations between Merkel and Cameron appear by all accounts to be in pretty good shape and they are said to like each other, Anglo-German relations at the other end have been neglected for years. I did this about the decline of twin towns and school exchanges recently, which made for quite depressing research.At the sports and culture end, I think it\u2019s fair to say there has been a bit of a shift. Germany has always been Anglophile, relatively speaking, and especially so in the 90s and noughties, when Schroeder tried to copy Blair and Cool Britannia was in vogue. Now the Germans have cooled on British culture a bit, whereas German art (see exhbition at the National, Saatchi, etc), German music (Kraftwerk selling out Turbine Hall), and German footballers (I bet there are more German players in the Premier League now than ever before) are all the rage. 11.39am GMT We might as well get this over and done with early in the day. Our national football rivalry kicked off in 1930 with a draw: since then the Germans are ahead in the stats, but only by a nose. George Arnett on our data team has done battle with the FIFA website and totted up the results in international tournaments, qualifiers and friendlies since then. And the results are:Two of those Germany wins were on penalties. So yes, if penalty shoot-outs were scratched from the rule book, we\u2019d be evens.  11.12am GMT It\u2019s nice to start on a positive note. This from the Germany Embassy yesterday: Ahead of tomorrow's visit by Chllr #Merkel, @yougov finds British public opinion on Germany \"strongly positive\" - http://t.co/v5CuTILCMTThe research by polling company YouGov is titled \u201cHurrah For Ze Germans!\u201d and reports: Fully 59% of British people have a positive opinion of Germany, including the majority of supporters from all three main parties, and even 50% of those supporting UKIP, a Eurosceptic party. Only 9% of people have negative views of Germany.\ufeff 11.03am GMT Angela Merkel, the German chancelllor, flies into the UK today for a high profile visit, including tea with he Queen and an address to both Houses of Parliament. This treatment is usually reserved for visiting heads of state, as previewed in today\u2019s Guardian by my colleagues Nicholas Watt and Philip Oltermann.The visit itself, including any briefings from official meetings and a press conference with Merkel and David Cameron, are being followed by the incomparable Andrew Sparrow on his Politics Live blog.Today\u2019s visit contrasts strongly with the pub lunch offered to the French president Francois Hollande in January.Is Cameron\u2019s government desperate to make a powerful friend in the EU? Or is it a reminder that despite two big wars and too many football penalties, the two countries have a lot in common?Help us to round up those football scores, flick back through the history books, test those political and economic ties, or simply share your experiences. Get in touch on Twitter @JulietteJowit, by email to juliette.jowit@theguardian.com and, of course, below the line. I remembered to turn on the comments today....", "tags": ["Germany", "Politics", "Football", "Angela Merkel", "David Cameron"], "title": "UK and Germany: are we more natural friends than foes? | Juliette Jowit"},{"date": "2014-02-26T19:39:56Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The European parliament could become a squabbling ground for \"loonies and lobbyists\", observers warned after a German court on Wednesday ruled against a voting threshold at European elections.The president of the federal court, Andreas Vosskuhle, ruled on Wednesday that the 3% entry hurdle violated the constitution and had stopped parties from getting a fair hearing. The ruling will come into effect immediately and apply to the European elections in May, where Germany will elect 96 MEPs for the next parliamentary term \u2013 the highest number of seats of all member states.Sixteen out of 29 EU countries, including Britain, have no threshold quotas for European elections, but the issue is an unusually politically loaded one in Germany: a 5% hurdle was introduced for the national parliament in 1949 with a view to making the raucous parliamentary squabbles of the Weimar Republic a thing of the past.Germany's proportional system has encouraged the creation of an unusually high number of smaller parties. While the Pirate party, the anti-euro Alternative f\u00fcr Deutschland and the far-right NPD are the three most prominent parties likely to gain from the changes, a number of smaller splinter groups and single-issue parties will be hoping for seats in Strasbourg and Brussels too.The head of the Pirate party, which is currently represented in the European Parliament via its Swedish branch, said the decision would guarantee that citizens' votes \"wouldn't again fall under the table\".The NPD, over whom the upper body of the Germany parliament is currently seeking a ban, called the court's decision a \"phenomenal victory\" and confidently announced on its website that its entry into the European parliament was now \"not just likely, but a certainty\".At previous European elections, German parties had to overcome a 5% hurdle, which the federal court had ruled unlawful in 2011. Last year, the German parliament had proposed replacing the 5% hurdle with 3%, but after complaints by 19 smaller parties this compromise too has been dismissed by the courts.Had there been no threshold at the last elections in 2009, seven additional parties would have gained seats, including the Free Voters, the far-right Republicans, the animal rights party Human Environment Animal, the Pensioners party, the Family party and the anti-growth and pro-family Ecological Democratic party, whose chairman Sebastian Frankenberger told the Guardian that the court decision was \"a victory for democracy and for the citizens whose votes will no longer be wasted.\" The satirical party known as The Party has also announced its intentions to win a seat in May.But some commentators warned that the court's decision could condemn the European parliament to irrelevance. \"The danger is that it could encourage lots of individuals with an axe to grind to set up their own party,\" said Gero Neugebauer, a political scientist at Berlin's Otto-Suhr-Institute for Political Science. \"You won't just get loonies, but loonies who can pretend to have a political career without wielding any real political power.\"Others were less pessimistic. \"I don't think there will be a big chaos,\" said Nils Diederich of Berlin's Free University. \"The big parliamentary groups will work more closely together, and there will be new alliances between smaller parties. Making decisions may take longer, but that's not necessarily a bad thing.\"The party that will be affected most directly by the decision to scrap the 3% hurdle is Angela Merkel's CDU. Until now, the Christian Democrats have tried to counter the threat posed by the anti-euro party Alternative f\u00fcr Deutschland by allowing their Bavarian sister party, the CSU, to opt for a more eurosceptic tone. But with the AfD feeling emboldened by the court's decision, the chancellor's party may have to readjust its European strategy.\"We have to live with the judgment and the fact that splinter parties and radical elements from Germany will be represented in the EU parliament,\" said CDU MEP Markus Ferber. \"That's not a very pleasant situation.\"", "tags": ["Germany", "European elections", "Europe", "World news", "European Union"], "title": "Germany rules to abolish 3% threshold quota on European elections"},{"date": "2014-01-27T21:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The loss of trust in the European Union presents a \"great danger\" as opponents resort to \"nationalist rhetoric sung to the catchy tune of criticism of Europe\", the German foreign minister has warned.In a Guardian article to mark the centenary of the first world war, Frank-Walter Steinmeier calls on Britain to acknowledge that the EU has made a European war \"unimaginable\".The intervention by Steinmeier, one of the senior SPD figures appointed to Angela Merkel's new grand coalition cabinet, comes as David Cameron moves to head off a rebellion by Tory backbenchers who want to put Britain in breach of its EU obligations by re-imposing work restrictions on Romanians and Bulgarians until 2018.Tory MPs reacted angrily after the home secretary, Theresa May, tabled 50 amendments \u2013 many of a highly technical nature \u2013 to the immigration bill for debate on Thursday. This means MPs are highly unlikely to have time to vote on the main rebel amendment.The prime minister said that immigration from Romania and Bulgaria had been at a \"reasonable level\" after transitional controls on access for workers were lifted on 1 January on the seventh anniversary of their accession to the EU in 2007. But Mark Reckless, a Tory member of the Commons home affairs select committee who supports the rebel amendment to re-introduce the transitional controls on Romanian and Bulgarian workers until 2018, said his ultimate objective was to end Britain's membership of the EU.Reckless told The World at One on BBC Radio 4: \"I would like to leave the EU. I think we would be better off as an independent country trading with Europe but governing ourselves.\"In his Guardian article, the German foreign minister indicated that he had hardline Eurosceptics in mind when he called on critics to bear in mind that Europe had found a way of resolving its differences peacefully. Steinmeier writes: \"For some, the pursuit of compromises around negotiating tables in Brussels is too arduous, protracted and unwieldy. This commemorative year reminds us of the importance of remaining aware of what an achievement of civilisation it is that EU states, once opponents in numerous conflicts, can spend long nights seeking joint solutions in a peaceful and civilised manner.\"The foreign minister, who was careful not to name British Eurosceptics, said the growing opposition to the EU was dangerous. He said: \"The loss of trust in the European project which has accompanied the economic crisis in Europe, particularly prominent in the young generation hit by unemployment and the lack of prospects in large parts of the EU, holds great danger. In such an atmosphere, it is easy to fall back on nationalist rhetoric, sung to the catchy tune of criticism of Europe. Given our history, we must firmly resist this.\"The article by Steinmeier is the first intervention by a German minister since Michael Gove criticised \"leftwing academics\" and dramas such as Blackadder that he said depicted the first world war as \"a series of catastrophic mistakes perpetrated by an out-of-touch elite\". In a Daily Mail article earlier this month, Gove described it as a \"plainly just war\" against German aggression. He wrote: \"The ruthless social Darwinism of the German elites, the pitiless approach they took to occupation, their aggressively expansionist war aims and their scorn for the international order all made resistance more than justified.\"Steinmeier said all sides shared the blame for the collapse of the fragile balance of power in Europe in the summer of 1914 as he wrote of \"a disturbing tale of the failure of the governing elites and the military, but also of diplomacy\". But he was highly critical of the conduct of Berlin. \"In Berlin, instead of de-escalation and understanding, the lust for escalation prevailed.\"May was criticised by Tory MPs for tabling so many technical amendments to the immigration bill on Thursday that it will be all but impossible to debate and vote on the main rebel amendment on Romania and Bulgaria. Peter Bone, the rightwing MP for Wellingborough, challenged May in the Commons to give MPs more than the four hours allocated for the report and third reading of the bill on Thursday.May replied: \"I recognise that there are a significant number of government amendments. They are mainly small and technical but, like [you], I would prefer that we did not have to bring so many technical amendments to the house at this stage.\"David Hanson, the shadow Home Office minister, announced that Labour would support an amendment tabled by the Tory backbencher Stephen Phillips to offer greater transparency about the impact of migration from future EU member states. The amendment would oblige a future government to publish an estimate of the number of migrants from future member states when it negotiated accession treaties.", "tags": ["European Union", "First world war", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Politics"], "title": "Germany: loss of trust in EU is 'great danger'"},{"date": "2014-01-13T16:34:26Z", "country": "germany", "content": "German beer's status as a national treasure is under threat after four of the country's largest breweries were fined \u20ac106.5m (\u00a389m) for price-fixing.The variety and generally high quality of German brewing has long been a source of national pride. In December, the brewers' union applied to have the Reinheitsgebot, or purity law, designated a Unesco world treasure.On Monday, Germany's federal cartel office revealed that between 2006 and 2008 managers from Bitburger, Krombacher, Veltins, Warsteiner and Anheuser-Busch held talks in person and over the phone in order to fix the prices of their products.The talks resulted in a Germany-wide rise of \u20ac5-\u20ac7 per hundred litres for barrelled beer, and \u20ac1 per crate of bottled beer, according to the cartel office head, Andreas Mundt.The Belgian-Brazilian multinational Anheuser-Busch InBev, which manufactures Beck's beer, is to be exempted from the fine after agreeing to act as a key witness in the case. The other four breweries have reportedly co-operated with the investigation in order to reduce their punishment.Nonetheless, the fines are expected to hit the companies hard. One brewery insider told the newspaper Die Welt that his company was set to lose one or two years' worth of earnings.Investigations into two unnamed large companies and four smaller regional breweries are continuing.Germany may still be the third-largest consumer of beer in the world, but consumption has been sinking steadily over the past 10 years. In 2012, Germans drank 107.2 litres a head \u2013 about a third less than in 1976. At the same time, brewers have been facing rising costs for energy, hops and barley malt.The Union for Private Breweries, which represents the interests of smaller regional brewers against multinationals, welcomed the fine as \"an important consequence\". Its director, Roland Demleitner, said large brewery conglomerates had been increasingly aggressive in their attempts to push small regional breweries out of the shrinking market.\"We hope that this fine will encourage beer drinkers and bar owners in Germany to think twice before they choose a characterless beer from a multinational over a regional beer with real character,\" Demleitner said.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Food & drink industry", "Business", "Beer", "AB InBev"], "title": "Germany fines top breweries \u20ac106m for price-fixing"},{"date": "2014-02-02T20:14:36Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has signalled it is preparing a third rescue package for Greece \u2013 provided the debt-stricken country implements \"rigorous\"austerity measures blamed for record levels of unemployment and a dramatic drop in GDP.The new loan, outlined in a five-page position paper by Berlin's finance ministry, would be worth between \u20ac10bn to \u20ac20bn (\u00a38bn-16bn), according to the German weekly Der Spiegel, which was leaked the document.Such an amount would chime with comments made by the German finance minister, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, who, in a separate interview due to be published on Monday insisted that any additional aid required by Athens would be \"far smaller\" than the \u20ac240bn it had received so far.\"What is sure is that any further aid would be much less expansive than whatever help [has been given] so far,\" he is quoted as telling the German finance magazine Wirtschaftswoche in what appears to be a calibrated move aimed at preparing public opinion.The renewed help follows revelations of clandestine talks between Sch\u00e4uble and leading EU figures over how to deal with Greece, which despite receiving the biggest bailout in global financial history, continues to remain the weakest link in the eurozone.The talks, said to have taken place on the sidelines of a Eurogroup meeting of eurozone finance ministers last week, are believed to have focused on the need to cover an impending shortfall in the country's financing and the reluctance Athens is displaying to enforce long overdue structural reforms. The lack of progress is at the root of stalled talks between Greece and its \"troika\" of creditors, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), European Central Bank and EU.Greece faces a financing gap of up to \u20ac15bn over the next two years, according to foreign creditors, which have kept its economy afloat since May 2010. As the EU's powerhouse, Berlin has bankrolled most of the emergency loans to date.But a German finance ministry spokesman, echoing similar statements by Sch\u00e4uble, denied that a further restructuring of Greece's staggering debt \u2013 this time by public creditors \u2013 was also on the cards.\"There is no new situation,\" said the spokesman referring to previous statements made by Sch\u00e4uble also rejecting the need for debt relief to be extended to recession-hit Greece.Most of the debt overhang now haunting the country belongs to European governments and at 176% of GDP \u2013 up from 120% of national output at the start of the crisis \u2013 is not only a barrier to investment but widely regarded as being at the root of its economic woes.\"They are missing the point: Greece does not need a third bailout, it needs debt restructuring,\" said the shadow development minister and economics professor, Giorgos Stathakis.\"Even in the IMF, logical people agree there is no way we can have any more fiscal adjustment when the whole thing has reached its limits,\" he said. \"There is simply no room for further cuts and further taxes and that is what they are going to ask for.\"He said the assistance was \"the wrong thing at the wrong time\". Unemployment is nudging 28% \u2013 and youth unemployment rate tops 60% \u2013 while economic recovery is still far from assured, despite the nation outperforming targets with the achievement of a primary budget surplus in 2013.The IMF has been increasingly at odds with Germany and other lenders over the need to write off Greece's debt. Confidential records, documenting minutes of meetings held to discuss the country's first bailout, reveal the level of discord among member states over the feasibility of the rescue programme. The IMF said last year that without additional debt relief by eurozone governments, Greece's debt burden could smother the country's economy.China, Brazil, Argentina, India, Egypt and Switzerland have been among the countries expressing grave doubts that the assistance would work, arguing that Greece might end up worse off after the austerity programme.", "tags": ["Germany", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial sector", "Business"], "title": "Germany preparing third financial rescue for Greece"},{"date": "2014-03-23T08:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "If Hitler were alive today, would he become a standup comic? Incredible though that may sound to anyone who lived through the second world war, that is the scenario sketched out in Look Who's Back, a satirical novel by Timur Vermes, which topped the bestseller lists in Germany after its publication in 2012 and is now about to be published in English.In the opening pages, Hitler wakes up on a building site in Berlin in 2011. His memory of how he got there is hazy: \"I think Eva and I chatted for a while, and I showed her my old pistol, but when I awoke I was unable to recall any further detail.\"The owner of a nearby kiosk recognises him \u2013 after all, 66 years after his death the man's face is still ubiquitous \u2013 and, assuming that Hitler is an extra from a new second world war film who is remaining resolutely in character (\"Bruno Ganz was superb, but he's not a patch on you\"), the kiosk owner hooks him up with a local comedy promoter.Hitler's first gig, the warm-up slot for a Turkish-German comic, goes down like a sinking U-boat. His dark rant about Muslims, abortion and plastic surgery has his audience gasping in shock. But gradually the performance gathers clicks on YouTube.Bestselling tabloid Bild demands an interview with the \"loony YouTube Hitler\" in which it tries to call his bluff. \"Is it true that you admire Adolf Hitler?\" asks the journalist. \"Only in the mirror in the morning,\" Adolf replies. Because Hitler does not adapt\u00a0to the 21st century and instead just continues to be the Hitler who died in 1945, no one can get a grip on\u00a0him.All the tabloids can do is express outrage, which means the more respectable broadsheets start to celebrate this unique method actor's \"improv\" act as a clever deconstruction of modern morals. Soon, the talkshow circuit beckons, then the leap into politics. Which prompts the question: will Hitler soon be back where he left off in 1945?Partly thanks to a massive marketing campaign involving popular comedian Christoph Maria Herbst, Look Who's Back (Er ist wieder da), with its cover depicting Hitler's block-like side-parted hair and toothbrush moustache, has sold more than 1.4m copies in print and audiobook in Germany. No mean feat, considering the hardback sold \u2013 in a knowing historical reference to the year the Nazi party leader came to power \u2013 for a hefty \u20ac19.33.Critics, though, have been underwhelmed. Some argued the novel \"trivialised\" the dictator's crimes by making the reader laugh not at, but also with him. Others felt the satire just didn't bite enough: \"A mediocre joke that suddenly got successful,\" as author and critic Daniel Erk put it.Vermes, a 47-year-old former ghostwriter with a German mother and a Hungarian father, brushes off such complaints: \"Books don't have to educate or turn people into better human beings \u2013 they can also just ask questions. If mine makes some readers realise that dictators aren't necessarily instantly recognisable as such, then I consider it a success.\"Vermes's hunch that a modern Hitler might find a home in comedy is by no means far-fetched. Almost 70 years after the end of the second world war, the web is awash with Hitler humour. Click on YouTube and you will find more than 100 videos made in recent years by satirists snatching clips from Downfall, the 2004 German movie of Hitler's demise, and doctoring them to tell a range of stories about personal travails and world politics. Watch Hitler erupt in frustration over his Xbox or flip out because his friends aren't going to Burning Man. This is the age of the \"Hipster Hitler\", run by a group of New Yorkers, in which the 21st-century, design-aware \"Hipster Hitler\" wears T-shirts that say \"Heilvetica\" and starts another beer-hall putsch because his local doesn't serve the latest craft beer. There is the website catsthatlooklikehitler.com, which has popularised the nickname Kitler for white cats with unfortunate black markings that make them look like the F\u00fchrer. Hitler's appearances in popular culture and the media, from advertisements to Google requests and the surface of toast, have become so pervasive that leftwing newspaper Taz until recently ran a dedicated Hitler blog on its website, keeping track of\u00a0them.Of course, in the right hands, the Nazis have always been comic. Charlie Chaplin's The Great Dictator set the benchmark for Hitler humour as far back as 1940 (though Vermes's Hitler thinks it's \"cheap and shoddy\" compared with the real deal).For the British, initially egged on in wartime to ridicule the F\u00fchrer by the Ministry of Information, Hitler humour was never really considered out of bounds. And since the war, the leader of the German fascist movement has made regular appearances in British comedy, his jerking body movements and violent outbursts reenacted eerily in Till Death Do Us Part, I'm All Right Jack and Fawlty Towers. He even ran for the Minehead by-election in Monty Python, circa 1970. As author Jacques Peretti once put it: \"Hitler was basically David Brent with clicky\u00a0heels.\"In Germany, there used to be more ambivalence about using the orchestrator of the Holocaust as a comic figure, although a compilation of jokes about the Nazi regime was one of the very first books to be published in postwar Germany. Showing that the nation had laughed about Hitler allowed people to claim that some had rebelled against the Nazis, even if those acts of rebellion had been restricted to a whispered punchline or stifled laughter.In 1949, the year of the foundation of modern Germany, West Berliners enjoyed a cabaret show by satirist G\u00fcnter Neumann called I Was Hitler's Moustache, about a Hitler body double who gets carried away with his new-found fame. Der Spiegel gave it an emphatic thumbs up: \"Hitler's first step on to a Berlin stage was laughed at loudly and at length.\" Laughing at Hitler was a way of showing you were on the right side.After the 1968 student protests ushered in a more critical stance towards not just the Nazi leader but the entire generation who had voted him in, it became harder to do comedy about Hitler without looking suspiciously like an apologist. Not having a German passport helped. George Tabori, the author of the first genuine Hitler satire to appear on a German stage, in 1988, was Hungarian. The play, simply called Mein Kampf, imagined a friendship between the young Hitler and a Jewish novelist, who primes him for a career in politics and designs his new look. \"There are some taboos that need to be broken unless we want to choke on them,\" Tabori later said.The book that in Germany truly ended the debate over whether it was \"OK to laugh about Hitler\" was an anarchic grotesque by cartoonist Walter Moers, published in 1998, in which the modern dictator starts an affair with G\u00f6ring, now specialising in domination on the Reeperbahn, and tries to take over the world with Princess Diana.Far from breaking any big taboos, Timur Vermes's novel may be a sign that Germany now looks at Hitler the way the rest of the world has already done for years: as a stock comic character. \"For decades, we learned to see him not as a human being but as a demon,\" says Klaus C\u00e4sar Zehrer, a German satirist and historian. \"Now that's changing, and he's tilting over into caricature: he used to be the ultimate villain, now he is the ultimate idiot.\"Increasingly, Zehrer says, Hitler satire is directed less and less at the Nazi period, and more at the few who still genuinely admire him. The funniest chapter of Look Who's Back has Hitler ridiculing the shambolic goings-on of the National Democratic party, the far-right outfit who many see as bearing the marks of Hitler's National Socialists.That particular chapter may well have been inspired by extra3, one of the few reliable funny comedy shows on German television, which allows a dubbed Hitler to rant about the ineffectiveness of the modern German far right. \"It works because for the neo-Nazis, this guy is still someone they look up to,\" says programme editor Andreas Lange.In 2008, Lange said his team considered letting Hitler rant about the Chinese Olympic opening ceremony too, but decided to scrap the segment. \"The problem with Hitler as a vehicle for satire is that you very quickly get tied up with comparisons you need to justify. We didn't want to use Hitler as if he was some pub circuit standup \u2013 there needed to be comedic\u00a0precision to his\u00a0contributions.\"At the beginning extra3 used to get regular complaints from viewers, but their number has decreased over the years. \"It has become increasingly difficult to provoke audiences with the Nazis. Jokes about animals and the church always get complaints \u2013 jokes about Hitler less and less so.\"Thomas Pigor, a cabaret performer who does a popular chanson about the F\u00fchrer's aftershave, maintains that the only way to still get any comic mileage out of the Hitler impressions these days is to explore the gap between cardboard cut-out madman and the private human being. \"When I do Hitler, I can't start out with the volume at full tilt \u2013 people wouldn't find that funny. I give him a low burr \u2013 that's where you get some comic potential, in the tension between monstrosity and\u00a0banality\".Vermes too says he had \"a curtailed idea of who Hitler was\" before writing his book. \"There is this 'instant Hitler' most people know, who is a bit like instant coffee, very one-dimensional.\"In search of a Hitler beyond the caricatures, he decided to read Mein Kampf for the first time. \"It's written in the style of someone who doesn't normally write: pompous and snivelling, lots of animal metaphors. If one word would do but Hitler knows three, he will use all three.\"But, he argues, the book was so dangerous precisely because it's not full of mad ideas. \"Some of it is fairly commonsensical. Take Hitler's thoughts on housing: he says young people need houses, so the state should build more houses. We can't declare that wrong simply because it was Hitler who said it.\"Vermes's modern Hitler, too, doesn't only spout repellent ideas that would instantly alienate the reader. On the one hand, he rails against parliamentary democracy, decries press freedom, and rejoices at the fact that 65 years after the end of the war, Germany's Jewish population is still only a fifth of what it was in 1933. But on the other, his complaints about hunting, food scandals and drivers racing through inner-city areas would fit perfectly into any modern party manifesto. \"That's why many readers thought my Hitler was too real: he was too normal,\" Vermes\u00a0says.The younger the reader, he says, the more they enjoyed his book. His mother, who was born in 1942, failed to see the funny side. \"'But that's what Hitler was like,' she said.\"Sometimes it feels like Vermes may have studied the ponderous style of his protagonist's memoir a bit too closely: for a comic novel, the opening chapters of Look Who's Back in particular can be a bit of a slog.And yet there's no question that the novel has hit upon the key paradox of our modern obsession with Hitler. In spite of his current ubiquity \u2013 in the media, in advertising, in film and in comedy \u2013 we are perhaps further than ever from understanding what he was like as a real human being, or how he was able to lead the German people to participate in the historic crime of the\u00a0Holocaust.Und \u00c4ktschn! (And Action!), a critically acclaimed comedy released in German cinemas last month, tells the story of an amateur film-maker trying to make a movie about Adolf Hitler's private life. In an interview with Der Spiegel, its director, veteran Bavarian satirist Gerhard Polt, argued that there must have been a likable side to Hitler \u2013 otherwise how could he have penetrated the salons of Munich high society? \"The likable guys are the dangerous ones. When a likable person gives you a hug and says something terrible, it's much harder to let go.\"Look Who's Back is published by MacLehose press on 3 April. Timur Vermes will be speaking at the Bristol festival of ideas, Foyles Cabot Circus, 1 April, 6.30pm. Tickets via ideasfestival.co.uk", "tags": ["Adolf Hitler", "Germany", "Fiction", "Second world war", "Fiction in translation", "Books", "Europe", "World news", "Culture"], "title": "Germany asks: is it OK to laugh at Hitler?"},{"date": "2014-03-04T09:02:18Z", "country": "germany", "content": " 9.02am GMT Small but important update. I\u2019ve amended the penultimate post from Thursday to give the Economist\u2019s executive editor his correct name - Daniel Franklin (not David). Apologies. 4.05pm GMT It\u2019s not really a subject which deserves a crude verdict: the idea was never to suggest we were foes, more to explore the often overlooked ties that bind and see how strong they really are.There is no doubt that German and British people who go abroad and meet each other find much in common - as they inevitably would, and hopefully would with many other nationalities. That there is surprise so often expressed at how much they have in common betrays the underlying issue, I\u2019d suggest.Today though there seems to be more reason than ever to explore much strong relationships between the two countries. I hesitate to say a special relationship because there is something exclusive and bullying about the term.Thanks so much for some great comments. Reality Check wont always lend itself to personal anecdotes, but I\u2019ve really enjoyed them and this time they were relevant!  4.01pm GMT There have been suggestions that the question about the UK and Germany being friends or foes is redundant or even insulting - some politely, by inference, others more - ahem - directly.There are too many good personal anecdotes and gentle chastisements about people getting on with people and nation states being an artificial construct to credit them all, but this was one of my favourites. It also happily deals with the issue of humour which I inexplicably forgot to mention, possibly because I laugh a lot with my friends from Germany.I remember reading somewhere that a traveller heard more laughter within two hours of arriving in Berlin than he/she had heard the previous two weeks in Paris. The truth is that the Germans are - to generalise wildly - a great bunch. They manage to run an efficient, de-centralised economy with workers' representatives often on corporate boards. Without much fuss, they integrated the lame duck former GDR and made a success of that. They make great beer and know how to enjoy themselves. Yes, they're patriotic but this doesn't spill into the demeaning jingoism stoked by the tabloids over here. They've also faced up to their responsibilities over WWII and, it could be argued, have actually gone too far. The poignant holocaust memorial in Berlin (next to the Brandenberg Gate) is a stunning acknowledgement of guilt planted right in the city centre. And, strange as it may seem, they actually like us...although are a little baffled by our obsession with WWII. I'd be proud to say 'Ich bin ein Berliner'. Tchuss.However I also spoke to Peter Littger, chairman of the King Edward VII British-German Foundation, a small charity dedicated to promoting better relations between the two different countries. He has just helped edit a book of essays on the subject, published by Granta in the UK, under the title \u2018Common Destiny vs. Marriage of Convenience - What do Britons and Germans want from Europe?\u2019The title borrows in part from an essay by the Economist\u2019s executive editor Daniel Franklin, \u2018Scenes from the British-German Marriage (marriage of not that much convenience)\u2019. Franklin gives a fly on the wall account of a summit of senior figures from both countries including business leaders and former diplomats, one which appears to have gone so badly that one member of the UK delegation is reported as saying \u201cwe\u2019re not moving apart, we\u2019re marching apart\u201d.Somehow, amongst the people that were once the \u201cglue\u201d between these two countries, something is going wrong, says Littger.\ufeffThe national character: there are differences that perhaps are part of the reason it\u2019s so difficult... There\u2019s this kinship and common history, and dynastic relationship, but [on] economic and social concepts we tend to think we know best and Brits tend to think they know it best\ufeff.Littger, too, however believes that Germany and the UK have many common interests - citing an unexpected but growing euro-scepticism in Germany, albeit within a strong commitment to staying in the EU.We need to keep open communication channels because everything can only get worse if we move apart.Updated at 9.01am GMT 2.42pm GMT I\u2019m still looking for a historian who can talk me through Anglo-Prussian relations before the world wars, which I think were very different. Meantime, I\u2019ve talked on the phone to Simon Green, professor of politics and co-director of the Aston Centre for Europe at Aston University in Birmingham, who has a particular interest in Anglo-German relations.The suggestion of a rivalry between the two countries is noticeably declining as the generations who lived through the two world wars give way to younger people for whom that has less cultural resonance, suggests Green. Now, the more important question is \u201chow much of a friend is Germany\u201d to the UK, says Green:Germany is absolutely critical, a key partner in the EU. From our perspective as a country look around you in Europe: who is going to be the country which is closest to Britain in our trading interests, in our interests in free markets? It\u2019s going to be Germany. It\u2019s not going to be France, Italy or Spain... All those countries have got different traditions in terms of how the state operates, particularly France. The German way of ordo-liberalism - that the state sets the rules of the game but doesn\u2019t interfere in markets beyond that\ufeff - that\u2019s something that resonates well in the UK.We might prefer to go on holiday to France, Spain or Italy - as the Germans do too - but in other EU matters the UK and Germany have similar approaches to important issues such as migration, foreign policy and security, suggests Green. Labour market policy is perhaps a notable exception. Interestingly, in the UK we are marking the 100th anniversary of the start of World War I, and the 75th anniversary of World War II, while in Germany there is discussion of the 300th anniversary of the King of Hannover becoming King George I. 12.50pm GMT Two reasons we should keep being friendly with Germany: they are the world\u2019s second biggest buyer of UK exports (though experts might be able to tell me if this is skewed by goods passing in and quickly out of their ports) and the biggest source of UK imports.These charts are from HM Revenue and Customs figures for trade in the year to December 2013. The full report is here. 12.17pm GMT An interesting debate below the line about whether the question itself is childish and out of date, or still valid:Are we still rolling out this sort of juvenile type of polling? Can we really be friends??!! Can we remember the War/penalty shootouts and still get on yes - its possible really!! We have had a good relationship with Germany for over a generation so lets move on from this stereotypical backward approach and understand that many people are now so well travelled in Europe and have multi-international ties with many people in many countries. Guardian you can do better than this!!In reply, britwatch recounts a disquieting experience of brining a group of German school children to the UK:Your stereotypically trite response shows that like so many you are in denial regarding the complexities of this issue.Educationalists and historians in the UK have nurtured a clear black-and-white narrative on the world wars: the British were the heroes and the Germans were inhuman incarnations of unimaginable evil. That' s easy to teach and is generally satisfying to hear. War is on the obligatory syllabus of schoolchildren as young as ?seven or eight (correct me on age.) Nothing that has happened in Germany in the last seventy years makes for such a good story.Going round the Imperial War Museum of the North one morning with a group of 15-16 year-old German girls, we encountered three British primary school groups doing project work on 'War'. Two kids from one of the groups asked some of my pupils what language they were speaking. When they heard they were Germans, they ran away shrieking in genuine terror. Although I had tried to prepare my pupils for this sort of encounter, which has become increasingly common in the last ten to fifteen years, the girls were left in tears, deeply shocked that children so young were being brainwashed into being afraid of them. I could continue and list all the similar unpleasant und uncomfortable encounters over the years. It is a problem I have discussed on more than one occasion with head teachers in the UK but most react like jiveboy and pretend it is all a figment of the imagination.Germans eventually get used to it. I personally think it is nevertheless extremely dangerous to teach young children this kind of racism. It could be something the UK lives to regret. 12.06pm GMT Our Berlin correspondent Philip Oltermann has sent me some interesting, nuanced thoughts on the subject by email.He wrote a piece for the Guardian this year comparing the Anglo-German relationship with the recently reinvigorated Franco-German ties. There are so many institutional projects that France and Germany work on together, like the joint TV channel Arte, the Franco-German University, and the annual joint cabinet session last month. Talking to government people about the Merkel visit, they all say that in particular Merkel\u2019s people have a lot more in common with Britain than France, but they get the chance to talk to the French more often, and more informally, whereas conversation with Britain is always done via loudspeaker, through the press.On a more informal note, Oltermann adds:While relations between Merkel and Cameron appear by all accounts to be in pretty good shape and they are said to like each other, Anglo-German relations at the other end have been neglected for years. I did this about the decline of twin towns and school exchanges recently, which made for quite depressing research.At the sports and culture end, I think it\u2019s fair to say there has been a bit of a shift. Germany has always been Anglophile, relatively speaking, and especially so in the 90s and noughties, when Schroeder tried to copy Blair and Cool Britannia was in vogue. Now the Germans have cooled on British culture a bit, whereas German art (see exhbition at the National, Saatchi, etc), German music (Kraftwerk selling out Turbine Hall), and German footballers (I bet there are more German players in the Premier League now than ever before) are all the rage. 11.39am GMT We might as well get this over and done with early in the day. Our national football rivalry kicked off in 1930 with a draw: since then the Germans are ahead in the stats, but only by a nose. George Arnett on our data team has done battle with the FIFA website and totted up the results in international tournaments, qualifiers and friendlies since then. And the results are:Two of those Germany wins were on penalties. So yes, if penalty shoot-outs were scratched from the rule book, we\u2019d be evens.  11.12am GMT It\u2019s nice to start on a positive note. This from the Germany Embassy yesterday: Ahead of tomorrow's visit by Chllr #Merkel, @yougov finds British public opinion on Germany \"strongly positive\" - http://t.co/v5CuTILCMTThe research by polling company YouGov is titled \u201cHurrah For Ze Germans!\u201d and reports: Fully 59% of British people have a positive opinion of Germany, including the majority of supporters from all three main parties, and even 50% of those supporting UKIP, a Eurosceptic party. Only 9% of people have negative views of Germany.\ufeff 11.03am GMT Angela Merkel, the German chancelllor, flies into the UK today for a high profile visit, including tea with he Queen and an address to both Houses of Parliament. This treatment is usually reserved for visiting heads of state, as previewed in today\u2019s Guardian by my colleagues Nicholas Watt and Philip Oltermann.The visit itself, including any briefings from official meetings and a press conference with Merkel and David Cameron, are being followed by the incomparable Andrew Sparrow on his Politics Live blog.Today\u2019s visit contrasts strongly with the pub lunch offered to the French president Francois Hollande in January.Is Cameron\u2019s government desperate to make a powerful friend in the EU? Or is it a reminder that despite two big wars and too many football penalties, the two countries have a lot in common?Help us to round up those football scores, flick back through the history books, test those political and economic ties, or simply share your experiences. Get in touch on Twitter @JulietteJowit, by email to juliette.jowit@theguardian.com and, of course, below the line. I remembered to turn on the comments today....", "tags": ["Germany", "Politics", "Football", "Angela Merkel", "David Cameron"], "title": "UK and Germany: are we more natural friends than foes? | Juliette Jowit"},{"date": "2014-02-26T19:39:56Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The European parliament could become a squabbling ground for \"loonies and lobbyists\", observers warned after a German court on Wednesday ruled against a voting threshold at European elections.The president of the federal court, Andreas Vosskuhle, ruled on Wednesday that the 3% entry hurdle violated the constitution and had stopped parties from getting a fair hearing. The ruling will come into effect immediately and apply to the European elections in May, where Germany will elect 96 MEPs for the next parliamentary term \u2013 the highest number of seats of all member states.Sixteen out of 29 EU countries, including Britain, have no threshold quotas for European elections, but the issue is an unusually politically loaded one in Germany: a 5% hurdle was introduced for the national parliament in 1949 with a view to making the raucous parliamentary squabbles of the Weimar Republic a thing of the past.Germany's proportional system has encouraged the creation of an unusually high number of smaller parties. While the Pirate party, the anti-euro Alternative f\u00fcr Deutschland and the far-right NPD are the three most prominent parties likely to gain from the changes, a number of smaller splinter groups and single-issue parties will be hoping for seats in Strasbourg and Brussels too.The head of the Pirate party, which is currently represented in the European Parliament via its Swedish branch, said the decision would guarantee that citizens' votes \"wouldn't again fall under the table\".The NPD, over whom the upper body of the Germany parliament is currently seeking a ban, called the court's decision a \"phenomenal victory\" and confidently announced on its website that its entry into the European parliament was now \"not just likely, but a certainty\".At previous European elections, German parties had to overcome a 5% hurdle, which the federal court had ruled unlawful in 2011. Last year, the German parliament had proposed replacing the 5% hurdle with 3%, but after complaints by 19 smaller parties this compromise too has been dismissed by the courts.Had there been no threshold at the last elections in 2009, seven additional parties would have gained seats, including the Free Voters, the far-right Republicans, the animal rights party Human Environment Animal, the Pensioners party, the Family party and the anti-growth and pro-family Ecological Democratic party, whose chairman Sebastian Frankenberger told the Guardian that the court decision was \"a victory for democracy and for the citizens whose votes will no longer be wasted.\" The satirical party known as The Party has also announced its intentions to win a seat in May.But some commentators warned that the court's decision could condemn the European parliament to irrelevance. \"The danger is that it could encourage lots of individuals with an axe to grind to set up their own party,\" said Gero Neugebauer, a political scientist at Berlin's Otto-Suhr-Institute for Political Science. \"You won't just get loonies, but loonies who can pretend to have a political career without wielding any real political power.\"Others were less pessimistic. \"I don't think there will be a big chaos,\" said Nils Diederich of Berlin's Free University. \"The big parliamentary groups will work more closely together, and there will be new alliances between smaller parties. Making decisions may take longer, but that's not necessarily a bad thing.\"The party that will be affected most directly by the decision to scrap the 3% hurdle is Angela Merkel's CDU. Until now, the Christian Democrats have tried to counter the threat posed by the anti-euro party Alternative f\u00fcr Deutschland by allowing their Bavarian sister party, the CSU, to opt for a more eurosceptic tone. But with the AfD feeling emboldened by the court's decision, the chancellor's party may have to readjust its European strategy.\"We have to live with the judgment and the fact that splinter parties and radical elements from Germany will be represented in the EU parliament,\" said CDU MEP Markus Ferber. \"That's not a very pleasant situation.\"", "tags": ["Germany", "European elections", "Europe", "World news", "European Union"], "title": "Germany rules to abolish 3% threshold quota on European elections"},{"date": "2014-01-27T21:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The loss of trust in the European Union presents a \"great danger\" as opponents resort to \"nationalist rhetoric sung to the catchy tune of criticism of Europe\", the German foreign minister has warned.In a Guardian article to mark the centenary of the first world war, Frank-Walter Steinmeier calls on Britain to acknowledge that the EU has made a European war \"unimaginable\".The intervention by Steinmeier, one of the senior SPD figures appointed to Angela Merkel's new grand coalition cabinet, comes as David Cameron moves to head off a rebellion by Tory backbenchers who want to put Britain in breach of its EU obligations by re-imposing work restrictions on Romanians and Bulgarians until 2018.Tory MPs reacted angrily after the home secretary, Theresa May, tabled 50 amendments \u2013 many of a highly technical nature \u2013 to the immigration bill for debate on Thursday. This means MPs are highly unlikely to have time to vote on the main rebel amendment.The prime minister said that immigration from Romania and Bulgaria had been at a \"reasonable level\" after transitional controls on access for workers were lifted on 1 January on the seventh anniversary of their accession to the EU in 2007. But Mark Reckless, a Tory member of the Commons home affairs select committee who supports the rebel amendment to re-introduce the transitional controls on Romanian and Bulgarian workers until 2018, said his ultimate objective was to end Britain's membership of the EU.Reckless told The World at One on BBC Radio 4: \"I would like to leave the EU. I think we would be better off as an independent country trading with Europe but governing ourselves.\"In his Guardian article, the German foreign minister indicated that he had hardline Eurosceptics in mind when he called on critics to bear in mind that Europe had found a way of resolving its differences peacefully. Steinmeier writes: \"For some, the pursuit of compromises around negotiating tables in Brussels is too arduous, protracted and unwieldy. This commemorative year reminds us of the importance of remaining aware of what an achievement of civilisation it is that EU states, once opponents in numerous conflicts, can spend long nights seeking joint solutions in a peaceful and civilised manner.\"The foreign minister, who was careful not to name British Eurosceptics, said the growing opposition to the EU was dangerous. He said: \"The loss of trust in the European project which has accompanied the economic crisis in Europe, particularly prominent in the young generation hit by unemployment and the lack of prospects in large parts of the EU, holds great danger. In such an atmosphere, it is easy to fall back on nationalist rhetoric, sung to the catchy tune of criticism of Europe. Given our history, we must firmly resist this.\"The article by Steinmeier is the first intervention by a German minister since Michael Gove criticised \"leftwing academics\" and dramas such as Blackadder that he said depicted the first world war as \"a series of catastrophic mistakes perpetrated by an out-of-touch elite\". In a Daily Mail article earlier this month, Gove described it as a \"plainly just war\" against German aggression. He wrote: \"The ruthless social Darwinism of the German elites, the pitiless approach they took to occupation, their aggressively expansionist war aims and their scorn for the international order all made resistance more than justified.\"Steinmeier said all sides shared the blame for the collapse of the fragile balance of power in Europe in the summer of 1914 as he wrote of \"a disturbing tale of the failure of the governing elites and the military, but also of diplomacy\". But he was highly critical of the conduct of Berlin. \"In Berlin, instead of de-escalation and understanding, the lust for escalation prevailed.\"May was criticised by Tory MPs for tabling so many technical amendments to the immigration bill on Thursday that it will be all but impossible to debate and vote on the main rebel amendment on Romania and Bulgaria. Peter Bone, the rightwing MP for Wellingborough, challenged May in the Commons to give MPs more than the four hours allocated for the report and third reading of the bill on Thursday.May replied: \"I recognise that there are a significant number of government amendments. They are mainly small and technical but, like [you], I would prefer that we did not have to bring so many technical amendments to the house at this stage.\"David Hanson, the shadow Home Office minister, announced that Labour would support an amendment tabled by the Tory backbencher Stephen Phillips to offer greater transparency about the impact of migration from future EU member states. The amendment would oblige a future government to publish an estimate of the number of migrants from future member states when it negotiated accession treaties.", "tags": ["European Union", "First world war", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Politics"], "title": "Germany: loss of trust in EU is 'great danger'"},{"date": "2014-01-13T16:34:26Z", "country": "germany", "content": "German beer's status as a national treasure is under threat after four of the country's largest breweries were fined \u20ac106.5m (\u00a389m) for price-fixing.The variety and generally high quality of German brewing has long been a source of national pride. In December, the brewers' union applied to have the Reinheitsgebot, or purity law, designated a Unesco world treasure.On Monday, Germany's federal cartel office revealed that between 2006 and 2008 managers from Bitburger, Krombacher, Veltins, Warsteiner and Anheuser-Busch held talks in person and over the phone in order to fix the prices of their products.The talks resulted in a Germany-wide rise of \u20ac5-\u20ac7 per hundred litres for barrelled beer, and \u20ac1 per crate of bottled beer, according to the cartel office head, Andreas Mundt.The Belgian-Brazilian multinational Anheuser-Busch InBev, which manufactures Beck's beer, is to be exempted from the fine after agreeing to act as a key witness in the case. The other four breweries have reportedly co-operated with the investigation in order to reduce their punishment.Nonetheless, the fines are expected to hit the companies hard. One brewery insider told the newspaper Die Welt that his company was set to lose one or two years' worth of earnings.Investigations into two unnamed large companies and four smaller regional breweries are continuing.Germany may still be the third-largest consumer of beer in the world, but consumption has been sinking steadily over the past 10 years. In 2012, Germans drank 107.2 litres a head \u2013 about a third less than in 1976. At the same time, brewers have been facing rising costs for energy, hops and barley malt.The Union for Private Breweries, which represents the interests of smaller regional brewers against multinationals, welcomed the fine as \"an important consequence\". Its director, Roland Demleitner, said large brewery conglomerates had been increasingly aggressive in their attempts to push small regional breweries out of the shrinking market.\"We hope that this fine will encourage beer drinkers and bar owners in Germany to think twice before they choose a characterless beer from a multinational over a regional beer with real character,\" Demleitner said.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Food & drink industry", "Business", "Beer", "AB InBev"], "title": "Germany fines top breweries \u20ac106m for price-fixing"},{"date": "2014-01-12T15:39:56Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Four people have died after a light plane travelling from England struck an electricity pylon and crashed in thick fog while landing at an airport in western Germany, according to German police.The plane, believed to be a Cessna Citation, was carrying two pilots and two passengers from England when it came down early on Sunday near its destination airfield at Trier-F\u00f6hren, close to the city of Trier, itself near the border with Luxembourg, Trier police said.A spokesman for the airfield said the plane was travelling from Shoreham airport in West Sussex and all the deceased were German. The impact set the plane on fire, with 50 firefighters involved in extinguishing the blaze.A source at the airfield said visibility at the time was as little as 100 metres. The airfield is not equipped for instrument landings, and planes landing visually at German airfields are usually advised not to attempt this in visibility below 1,800 metres.Witnesses said part of the wing was stuck in an electricity pylon to the north-east of the runway. The airfield is relatively short, at 1,200 metres, and is primarily used for private and military flights.A police spokeswoman, Monika Peters, said the plane was a Cessna Citation, a popular type of US-made turbofan plane. Emergency services were called after witnesses saw it crash next to large rubbish tip site at a place called Rivenich. Reports said the plane was on fire when firefighters reached the scene. There was no word on the possible cause of the crash, or the identity of those on board. The plane had an American registration.A Foreign Office spokesman said: \"We are aware of the reports and are urgently looking into them.\"", "tags": ["Germany", "Air transport", "UK news", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Light plane travelling from England crashes in Germany, killing four"},{"date": "2014-04-17T12:55:35Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Online retailer Amazon has been hit by renewed industrial action in two of its distribution centres in Germany. Hundreds of workers in Leipzig and Bad Hersfeld staged an all-day strike on Thursday. The same centres had seen strikes last summer and in the run-up to Christmas.Verdi, the German services union which organised the strike, wants the US company to recognise its employees as retail rather than logistics workers and comply with standard wage agreements in Germany. Mail order businesses are supposed to pay workers between \u20ac11.47 and \u20ac11.94 an hour, at least \u20ac1 more than Amazon's German workers earn.Union representative J\u00f6rg Lauenroth-Mago said that the online retailer was displaying \"a lack of respect for the excellent work that Amazon employees deliver every day\". He said he expected around 40% of the Leipzig workforce to take part in industrial action today, and that further centres in the rest of Germany would follow Leipzig and Bad Hersfeld's lead over the course of the year.Earlier this month, Amazon had rejected a union offer to enter tariff negotiations. In a statement, it said that only a small number of employees were taking part in the protests and that the centre's turnover rate wouldn't be affected. The company claims that its employees are rewarded by flexible rewards such as shares or bonuses, which couldn't be reflected in a tariff agreement.", "tags": ["Amazon.com", "Internet", "E-commerce", "Technology", "Germany", "US news"], "title": "Amazon workers in Germany strike"},{"date": "2014-04-17T12:55:35Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Online retailer Amazon has been hit by renewed industrial action in two of its distribution centres in Germany. Hundreds of workers in Leipzig and Bad Hersfeld staged an all-day strike on Thursday. The same centres had seen strikes last summer and in the run-up to Christmas.Verdi, the German services union which organised the strike, wants the US company to recognise its employees as retail rather than logistics workers and comply with standard wage agreements in Germany. Mail order businesses are supposed to pay workers between \u20ac11.47 and \u20ac11.94 an hour, at least \u20ac1 more than Amazon's German workers earn.Union representative J\u00f6rg Lauenroth-Mago said that the online retailer was displaying \"a lack of respect for the excellent work that Amazon employees deliver every day\". He said he expected around 40% of the Leipzig workforce to take part in industrial action today, and that further centres in the rest of Germany would follow Leipzig and Bad Hersfeld's lead over the course of the year.Earlier this month, Amazon had rejected a union offer to enter tariff negotiations. In a statement, it said that only a small number of employees were taking part in the protests and that the centre's turnover rate wouldn't be affected. The company claims that its employees are rewarded by flexible rewards such as shares or bonuses, which couldn't be reflected in a tariff agreement.", "tags": ["Amazon.com", "Internet", "E-commerce", "Technology", "Germany", "US news"], "title": "Amazon workers in Germany strike"},{"date": "2014-06-23T14:26:29Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Britain and Germany have broken records for generating solar electricity in the last few weeks, according to new industry figures.Germany generated over half its electricity demand from solar for the first time ever on 9 June, and the UK, basking in the sunniest weather of summer during the longest days of the year, nearly doubled its 2013 peak solar power output at the solstice weekend.France, Italy, Denmark and other countries are also believed to have generated record amounts in June.According to UK trade body the Solar Trade association (STA), the total UK installed solar capacity generated from homes, buildings and solar farms is now about 4.7 gigawatts compared to 2.7GW in July last year.It is not possible to tell exactly how much solar power was generated in Britain because electricity from small-scale household units is not centrally measured, but the STA estimated on Monday that 3.9% of the UK's electricity demand was met by solar photovoltaic systems (PV) over the 24 hours of Saturday.This means solar's contribution peaked at a record 7.8% of daytime electricity, on 21 June, said the association.\"Britain has virtually doubled its capacity in the last year, with 80,000 more installations, including several thousand larger scale commercial ones,\" said Ray Noble, a consultant at the UK National Solar Centre.\"There are now 530,000 installations in the UK, of which 510,000 are domestic small scale ones. Last weekend we estimate they generated about 8% of daytime electricity in total,\" said Noble.\"We think that this is likely to double again within a year. There is nothing to stop it getting to 30-40% of UK electricity at this time of year,\" he said.The figures were welcomed by UK energy minister Greg Barker, who was criticised in May for removing subsidies for large-scale solar farms. \"We have put ourselves among the world leaders on solar and this ambitious strategy will place us right at the cutting edge.\"There is massive potential to turn our large buildings into power stations and we must seize the opportunity this offers to boost our economy as part of our long term economic plan.\"Solar not only benefits the environment, it will see British job creation and deliver the clean and reliable energy supplies that the country needs at the lowest possible cost to consumers.\"Germany, with 1.4m PV systems, generated a peak of 23.1GW hours at lunchtime on Monday 9 June, equivalent to 50.6% of its total electricity need. According to government development agency Germany trade and invest (GTAI), solar power grew 34% in the first five months of 2014 compared to last year.Europe added 10.9GW of PV capacity in 2013, said the European photovoltaic industry association (Epia), bringing the total installed capacity to over 81GW on the continent.\"This represents a 16% increase compared to the year before and about 59% of the world's cumulative photovoltaic capacity,\" said a spokesman. \"2013 was a record year for the UK, with 1.5GW installed last year. Germany installed 3.3GW, Italy 1.4GW, Romania 1.1GW and Greece 1.04GW.\"But new figures from the Washington-based Earth Policy Institute suggest Europe is no longer the biggest market for solar power.In 2013, says the EPI report, China added \"at least\" 11.3GW and is now the second largest generator of solar power after Germany, and the US added some 4.8GW, increasing its total capacity by 65% to 12GW.\"PV remains the most rapidly-growing energy technology by a wide margin. Indeed, global PV installations for 2014 should reach at least 40,000 megawatts, expanding world PV capacity by another 30 percent,\" says author J Matthew Roney.California now has more than 240,000 small-scale solar installations on commercial and residential roofs across the state that amount to more than 2,200 MW of generation capacity.The US figure was greatly augmented by 25 new large-scale solar projects including the largest solar plant in the world in the Mojave desert 40 miles southwest of Las Vegas.Elsewhere, Canada added 440 megawatts to reach 1.2GW in 2013, Mexico nearly doubled its PV capacity to 100MW and is expected to reach 240MW by the end of 2014 and Japan, spurred by the closure of nuclear power plants following Fukushima more than doubled its capacity by adding 6.9GW in 2013.According to the European photovoltaic industry report, solar power is expected to grow 20% a year over the next few years.", "tags": ["Solar power", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "UK news", "Europe", "Germany", "US news", "China", "World news"], "title": "UK and Germany break solar power records"},{"date": "2014-04-17T12:55:35Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Online retailer Amazon has been hit by renewed industrial action in two of its distribution centres in Germany. Hundreds of workers in Leipzig and Bad Hersfeld staged an all-day strike on Thursday. The same centres had seen strikes last summer and in the run-up to Christmas.Verdi, the German services union which organised the strike, wants the US company to recognise its employees as retail rather than logistics workers and comply with standard wage agreements in Germany. Mail order businesses are supposed to pay workers between \u20ac11.47 and \u20ac11.94 an hour, at least \u20ac1 more than Amazon's German workers earn.Union representative J\u00f6rg Lauenroth-Mago said that the online retailer was displaying \"a lack of respect for the excellent work that Amazon employees deliver every day\". He said he expected around 40% of the Leipzig workforce to take part in industrial action today, and that further centres in the rest of Germany would follow Leipzig and Bad Hersfeld's lead over the course of the year.Earlier this month, Amazon had rejected a union offer to enter tariff negotiations. In a statement, it said that only a small number of employees were taking part in the protests and that the centre's turnover rate wouldn't be affected. The company claims that its employees are rewarded by flexible rewards such as shares or bonuses, which couldn't be reflected in a tariff agreement.", "tags": ["Amazon.com", "Internet", "E-commerce", "Technology", "Germany", "US news"], "title": "Amazon workers in Germany strike"},{"date": "2014-06-23T14:26:29Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Britain and Germany have broken records for generating solar electricity in the last few weeks, according to new industry figures.Germany generated over half its electricity demand from solar for the first time ever on 9 June, and the UK, basking in the sunniest weather of summer during the longest days of the year, nearly doubled its 2013 peak solar power output at the solstice weekend.France, Italy, Denmark and other countries are also believed to have generated record amounts in June.According to UK trade body the Solar Trade association (STA), the total UK installed solar capacity generated from homes, buildings and solar farms is now about 4.7 gigawatts compared to 2.7GW in July last year.It is not possible to tell exactly how much solar power was generated in Britain because electricity from small-scale household units is not centrally measured, but the STA estimated on Monday that 3.9% of the UK's electricity demand was met by solar photovoltaic systems (PV) over the 24 hours of Saturday.This means solar's contribution peaked at a record 7.8% of daytime electricity, on 21 June, said the association.\"Britain has virtually doubled its capacity in the last year, with 80,000 more installations, including several thousand larger scale commercial ones,\" said Ray Noble, a consultant at the UK National Solar Centre.\"There are now 530,000 installations in the UK, of which 510,000 are domestic small scale ones. Last weekend we estimate they generated about 8% of daytime electricity in total,\" said Noble.\"We think that this is likely to double again within a year. There is nothing to stop it getting to 30-40% of UK electricity at this time of year,\" he said.The figures were welcomed by UK energy minister Greg Barker, who was criticised in May for removing subsidies for large-scale solar farms. \"We have put ourselves among the world leaders on solar and this ambitious strategy will place us right at the cutting edge.\"There is massive potential to turn our large buildings into power stations and we must seize the opportunity this offers to boost our economy as part of our long term economic plan.\"Solar not only benefits the environment, it will see British job creation and deliver the clean and reliable energy supplies that the country needs at the lowest possible cost to consumers.\"Germany, with 1.4m PV systems, generated a peak of 23.1GW hours at lunchtime on Monday 9 June, equivalent to 50.6% of its total electricity need. According to government development agency Germany trade and invest (GTAI), solar power grew 34% in the first five months of 2014 compared to last year.Europe added 10.9GW of PV capacity in 2013, said the European photovoltaic industry association (Epia), bringing the total installed capacity to over 81GW on the continent.\"This represents a 16% increase compared to the year before and about 59% of the world's cumulative photovoltaic capacity,\" said a spokesman. \"2013 was a record year for the UK, with 1.5GW installed last year. Germany installed 3.3GW, Italy 1.4GW, Romania 1.1GW and Greece 1.04GW.\"But new figures from the Washington-based Earth Policy Institute suggest Europe is no longer the biggest market for solar power.In 2013, says the EPI report, China added \"at least\" 11.3GW and is now the second largest generator of solar power after Germany, and the US added some 4.8GW, increasing its total capacity by 65% to 12GW.\"PV remains the most rapidly-growing energy technology by a wide margin. Indeed, global PV installations for 2014 should reach at least 40,000 megawatts, expanding world PV capacity by another 30 percent,\" says author J Matthew Roney.California now has more than 240,000 small-scale solar installations on commercial and residential roofs across the state that amount to more than 2,200 MW of generation capacity.The US figure was greatly augmented by 25 new large-scale solar projects including the largest solar plant in the world in the Mojave desert 40 miles southwest of Las Vegas.Elsewhere, Canada added 440 megawatts to reach 1.2GW in 2013, Mexico nearly doubled its PV capacity to 100MW and is expected to reach 240MW by the end of 2014 and Japan, spurred by the closure of nuclear power plants following Fukushima more than doubled its capacity by adding 6.9GW in 2013.According to the European photovoltaic industry report, solar power is expected to grow 20% a year over the next few years.", "tags": ["Solar power", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "UK news", "Europe", "Germany", "US news", "China", "World news"], "title": "UK and Germany break solar power records"},{"date": "2014-06-20T12:08:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germans watching the debate about unemployment benefit in the UK have a unique perspective. They've been through their own reform already \u2013 but many Britons would be surprised at how generous our system was, and remains, in comparison.The contributory principle has always been at the heart of German arrangements for unemployment support. Until 2005, Germans who were out of work and in need would receive 60% of the net salary of their last job (67% if they had children), tax free, then after a year, it would go down to 53%. Former chancellor Gerhard Schr\u00f6der made it his mission to change this system, a programme known as the Hartz reforms. The cutbacks came into force on 1 January 2005. Schroeder was out of government in the autumn of the same year.Under the reforms, now in their ninth year, the first year of unemployment remains covered by unemployment pay. Those who were in paid employment for at least a year beforehand still receive 60% of their net salary for the first year and 67% if they provide for a family. The big drop now happens afterwards. Instead of receiving about half of their former salaries, single people currently get \u20ac391 a month, and a further subsidy of between \u20ac229 and \u20ac296 for every child, depending on their age. Partners who live together will get \u20ac353 each. Costs for rent and heating are covered as well. Any personal savings, though, are taken into account and reduce whatever is paid as an unemployment benefit.The idea behind these changes was to push people into work. The cutbacks went hand in hand with a reform of labour market laws that was supposed to make it easier for jobseekers to get back into employment. The combination of worse conditions for those who had to exist on unemployment benefits and easier entry into the job market was supposed to reduce the high German unemployment rate. But did it work?The answer to this question is still the subject of a fierce debate. Yes, say those defending the reforms: just look at the unemployment rate. It has indeed come down since 2005, when it peaked at about 11%, falling to 7.5% in 2008, staying stable during the recession and eventually falling to a record low of 5.5% by the end of 2012.No, says the opposing camp. The supposed job miracle is a fudge. Instead of being employed full time, people now work in several part-time or so-called \"mini jobs\".According to the proponents, thanks to the Hartz reforms real wages in Germany came down and the country became more competitive. Their opponents counter that people are paid so little that often they have to supplement their meagre income through unemployment benefits even if they do have a job.In any case, the political fallout for the German Social Democrats will make for an uncomfortable subject for Ed Miliband to study. Germans hated the Hartz reforms. The tradition of Monday demonstrations, which 15 years before had brought the GDR to its knees, was revived. This time the demonstrators raged against what they called social destruction. Schroeder's SPD not only lost the elections in September 2005, the controversy about the reforms also split the party. Subsequently, Die Linke (The Left) emerged as an independent party that ever since eats into the electorate of the Social Democrats.Nine years on, though, the Hartz reforms are increasingly seen as a success story. Germany evolved from the sick man of Europe into the strongest, most stable European economy. The SPD, however, still feels uncomfortable with the legacy. Angela Merkel, on the other hand, who first dismissed the ideas, has come out on top, using the reforms to paint a picture of Germany as the model for others to follow.", "tags": ["Unemployment", "Germany", "Society", "Welfare", "Politics", "Benefits", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Unemployment benefit: the view from Germany | Imke Henkel"},{"date": "2014-04-17T12:55:35Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Online retailer Amazon has been hit by renewed industrial action in two of its distribution centres in Germany. Hundreds of workers in Leipzig and Bad Hersfeld staged an all-day strike on Thursday. The same centres had seen strikes last summer and in the run-up to Christmas.Verdi, the German services union which organised the strike, wants the US company to recognise its employees as retail rather than logistics workers and comply with standard wage agreements in Germany. Mail order businesses are supposed to pay workers between \u20ac11.47 and \u20ac11.94 an hour, at least \u20ac1 more than Amazon's German workers earn.Union representative J\u00f6rg Lauenroth-Mago said that the online retailer was displaying \"a lack of respect for the excellent work that Amazon employees deliver every day\". He said he expected around 40% of the Leipzig workforce to take part in industrial action today, and that further centres in the rest of Germany would follow Leipzig and Bad Hersfeld's lead over the course of the year.Earlier this month, Amazon had rejected a union offer to enter tariff negotiations. In a statement, it said that only a small number of employees were taking part in the protests and that the centre's turnover rate wouldn't be affected. The company claims that its employees are rewarded by flexible rewards such as shares or bonuses, which couldn't be reflected in a tariff agreement.", "tags": ["Amazon.com", "Internet", "E-commerce", "Technology", "Germany", "US news"], "title": "Amazon workers in Germany strike"},{"date": "2014-06-23T14:26:29Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Britain and Germany have broken records for generating solar electricity in the last few weeks, according to new industry figures.Germany generated over half its electricity demand from solar for the first time ever on 9 June, and the UK, basking in the sunniest weather of summer during the longest days of the year, nearly doubled its 2013 peak solar power output at the solstice weekend.France, Italy, Denmark and other countries are also believed to have generated record amounts in June.According to UK trade body the Solar Trade association (STA), the total UK installed solar capacity generated from homes, buildings and solar farms is now about 4.7 gigawatts compared to 2.7GW in July last year.It is not possible to tell exactly how much solar power was generated in Britain because electricity from small-scale household units is not centrally measured, but the STA estimated on Monday that 3.9% of the UK's electricity demand was met by solar photovoltaic systems (PV) over the 24 hours of Saturday.This means solar's contribution peaked at a record 7.8% of daytime electricity, on 21 June, said the association.\"Britain has virtually doubled its capacity in the last year, with 80,000 more installations, including several thousand larger scale commercial ones,\" said Ray Noble, a consultant at the UK National Solar Centre.\"There are now 530,000 installations in the UK, of which 510,000 are domestic small scale ones. Last weekend we estimate they generated about 8% of daytime electricity in total,\" said Noble.\"We think that this is likely to double again within a year. There is nothing to stop it getting to 30-40% of UK electricity at this time of year,\" he said.The figures were welcomed by UK energy minister Greg Barker, who was criticised in May for removing subsidies for large-scale solar farms. \"We have put ourselves among the world leaders on solar and this ambitious strategy will place us right at the cutting edge.\"There is massive potential to turn our large buildings into power stations and we must seize the opportunity this offers to boost our economy as part of our long term economic plan.\"Solar not only benefits the environment, it will see British job creation and deliver the clean and reliable energy supplies that the country needs at the lowest possible cost to consumers.\"Germany, with 1.4m PV systems, generated a peak of 23.1GW hours at lunchtime on Monday 9 June, equivalent to 50.6% of its total electricity need. According to government development agency Germany trade and invest (GTAI), solar power grew 34% in the first five months of 2014 compared to last year.Europe added 10.9GW of PV capacity in 2013, said the European photovoltaic industry association (Epia), bringing the total installed capacity to over 81GW on the continent.\"This represents a 16% increase compared to the year before and about 59% of the world's cumulative photovoltaic capacity,\" said a spokesman. \"2013 was a record year for the UK, with 1.5GW installed last year. Germany installed 3.3GW, Italy 1.4GW, Romania 1.1GW and Greece 1.04GW.\"But new figures from the Washington-based Earth Policy Institute suggest Europe is no longer the biggest market for solar power.In 2013, says the EPI report, China added \"at least\" 11.3GW and is now the second largest generator of solar power after Germany, and the US added some 4.8GW, increasing its total capacity by 65% to 12GW.\"PV remains the most rapidly-growing energy technology by a wide margin. Indeed, global PV installations for 2014 should reach at least 40,000 megawatts, expanding world PV capacity by another 30 percent,\" says author J Matthew Roney.California now has more than 240,000 small-scale solar installations on commercial and residential roofs across the state that amount to more than 2,200 MW of generation capacity.The US figure was greatly augmented by 25 new large-scale solar projects including the largest solar plant in the world in the Mojave desert 40 miles southwest of Las Vegas.Elsewhere, Canada added 440 megawatts to reach 1.2GW in 2013, Mexico nearly doubled its PV capacity to 100MW and is expected to reach 240MW by the end of 2014 and Japan, spurred by the closure of nuclear power plants following Fukushima more than doubled its capacity by adding 6.9GW in 2013.According to the European photovoltaic industry report, solar power is expected to grow 20% a year over the next few years.", "tags": ["Solar power", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "UK news", "Europe", "Germany", "US news", "China", "World news"], "title": "UK and Germany break solar power records"},{"date": "2014-06-20T12:08:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germans watching the debate about unemployment benefit in the UK have a unique perspective. They've been through their own reform already \u2013 but many Britons would be surprised at how generous our system was, and remains, in comparison.The contributory principle has always been at the heart of German arrangements for unemployment support. Until 2005, Germans who were out of work and in need would receive 60% of the net salary of their last job (67% if they had children), tax free, then after a year, it would go down to 53%. Former chancellor Gerhard Schr\u00f6der made it his mission to change this system, a programme known as the Hartz reforms. The cutbacks came into force on 1 January 2005. Schroeder was out of government in the autumn of the same year.Under the reforms, now in their ninth year, the first year of unemployment remains covered by unemployment pay. Those who were in paid employment for at least a year beforehand still receive 60% of their net salary for the first year and 67% if they provide for a family. The big drop now happens afterwards. Instead of receiving about half of their former salaries, single people currently get \u20ac391 a month, and a further subsidy of between \u20ac229 and \u20ac296 for every child, depending on their age. Partners who live together will get \u20ac353 each. Costs for rent and heating are covered as well. Any personal savings, though, are taken into account and reduce whatever is paid as an unemployment benefit.The idea behind these changes was to push people into work. The cutbacks went hand in hand with a reform of labour market laws that was supposed to make it easier for jobseekers to get back into employment. The combination of worse conditions for those who had to exist on unemployment benefits and easier entry into the job market was supposed to reduce the high German unemployment rate. But did it work?The answer to this question is still the subject of a fierce debate. Yes, say those defending the reforms: just look at the unemployment rate. It has indeed come down since 2005, when it peaked at about 11%, falling to 7.5% in 2008, staying stable during the recession and eventually falling to a record low of 5.5% by the end of 2012.No, says the opposing camp. The supposed job miracle is a fudge. Instead of being employed full time, people now work in several part-time or so-called \"mini jobs\".According to the proponents, thanks to the Hartz reforms real wages in Germany came down and the country became more competitive. Their opponents counter that people are paid so little that often they have to supplement their meagre income through unemployment benefits even if they do have a job.In any case, the political fallout for the German Social Democrats will make for an uncomfortable subject for Ed Miliband to study. Germans hated the Hartz reforms. The tradition of Monday demonstrations, which 15 years before had brought the GDR to its knees, was revived. This time the demonstrators raged against what they called social destruction. Schroeder's SPD not only lost the elections in September 2005, the controversy about the reforms also split the party. Subsequently, Die Linke (The Left) emerged as an independent party that ever since eats into the electorate of the Social Democrats.Nine years on, though, the Hartz reforms are increasingly seen as a success story. Germany evolved from the sick man of Europe into the strongest, most stable European economy. The SPD, however, still feels uncomfortable with the legacy. Angela Merkel, on the other hand, who first dismissed the ideas, has come out on top, using the reforms to paint a picture of Germany as the model for others to follow.", "tags": ["Unemployment", "Germany", "Society", "Welfare", "Politics", "Benefits", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Unemployment benefit: the view from Germany | Imke Henkel"},{"date": "2014-05-13T08:35:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German foreign minister has arrived in Ukraine saying he hopes round-table talks between politicians and civil groups this week will help disarm pro-Russia separatists and improve the atmosphere for elections in the country later this month.Frank-Walter Steinmeier met the acting prime minister, Arseniy Yatsenyuk, at Kiev's airport on Tuesday morning before travelling to the Black Sea city of Odessa, the site of deadly clashes between Ukrainian forces and rebels.The situation in parts of Ukraine remained \"dangerous and threatening\", Steinmeier said, adding that the priority was for as many voters as possible to take part in presidential elections on 25 May.\"We also support your efforts to launch a national dialogue, under Ukrainian ownership, here in your country, through round-tables, at the central level and in the regions,\" Steinmeier told a joint news conference with Yatsenyuk. \"I hope that under these conditions it is possible to take steps to bring back occupied buildings and eventually to disarm illegal groups,\" said the German foreign minister.The \"People's Republic of Donetsk\" declared itself an independent country on Monday and, within two hours of doing so, had asked to join Russia. The region of Luhansk also claimed independence.Dialogue is central to the road map for settling the crisis which was outlined on Monday by the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe. The plan, presented by the Swiss president, Didier Burkhalter, calls on all sides to refrain from violence and urges immediate amnesty, talks on decentralisation and the status of the Russian language.Russia has welcomed the initiative, which reflects some key demands of insurgents who have denounced the central government in Kiev as a \"fascist junta\".Yatsenyuk pledged on Monday to talk to representatives of Ukraine's east.The Donetsk separatist leader, Denis Pushilin, told journalists that the self-proclaimed republic would ask Moscow to consider absorbing the region, which borders Russia. But it remains doubtful whether Moscow will carry out a Crimea-style annexation of the region, which held a controversial referendum on independence on Sunday, together with neighbouring Luhansk.According to results announced by the de facto authorities in Donetsk and Luhansk \u2013 which also declared independence from Ukraine on Monday \u2013 about 90% on a turnout of 70%, and 96% on a turnout of nearly 75% respectively voted for state sovereignty. The referendums \u2013 which Kiev has dismissed as illegitimate \u2013 were hastily organised and marked by numerous violations.The results were roundly condemned in the west, but Russia said it respected the results. However, instead of previous statements saying it would protect people in the regions with troops if need be, the Kremlin called for dialogue between the government in Kiev and the south-east regions of the country.\"In Moscow, we respect the will of the people of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions and are counting on practical implementation of the outcome of the referendum in a civilised manner, without any repeat of violence and through dialogue,\" the Kremlin said.At a press conference in Moscow, Sergei Lavrov, Russia's foreign minister, read out the Kremlin statement and added that only Russian television channels were telling \"the truth in real time\" about the crisis, whereas western news outlets were hiding the real causes.Lavrov made no mention of the controversy over the referendum, merely noting the \"high voting activity\" of the population despite attempts from Kiev to disrupt the vote. He said no new international talks were planned on Ukraine.Oleksandr Turchynov, Ukraine's acting president, told the country's parliament: \"The farce which terrorists call the referendum will have no legal consequences except the criminal responsibility for its organisers.\"The Kremlin has called the new government in Kiev \"neo-fascist\" and Kiev has accused Russia of organising the separatist movement by providing weapons and tactical advice. Nevertheless, Vladimir Putin last week asked the separatists to delay their referendum, which appeared to be an attempt to distance Russia from the vote, but the president's request was ignored.There were a number of irregularities with the count and procedure, and it seems unlikely that the figures announced are an accurate reflection of views in the region, with most of those who disagreed with the proposition staying at home.Nevertheless, there has been an increasing mood of defiance, especially as a Ukrainian army operation against the armed separatists resulted in multiple casualties. It is hard to judge how many people support the armed takeover of government buildings and attempts to separate from Ukraine, but feelings are running high.The referendum question was worded ambiguously, appearing to offer state sovereignty for the Donetsk and Luhansk \"people's republics\". Roman Lyagin, head of the de facto central election committee in Donetsk, said before the vote that nothing would change in terms of state borders. He said that, in future, the region would be free to decide whether to stay within Ukraine, become independent or join Russia. In the end, it apparently took only two hours to make the decision, making a mockery of what voters had been told in the lead-up.In Luhansk, separatists announced that more than 96% of ballots had been cast in favour of the independence of the region. \"Congratulations on the birth of the Luhansk republic,\" said Vasily Nikitin, deputy head of the region's separatist movement. \"We are now preparing an appeal to the UN and international community asking them to recognise us.\"Nikitin said the constitution of the new \"country\" was almost ready, and that its residents would not participate in Ukrainian presidential elections planned for 25 May. Donetsk's de facto authorities have also said they will not allow voting in the elections. A key demand of Moscow has been to postpone the elections.In Luhansk, one resident, Anatoliy Sukharev, 80, approached Nikitin and asked whether there would be a second referendum on joining Russia.\"What is next? When are we going to have this referendum?\" he asked. Nikitin said a second referendum would happen, but the republic needed to \"organise as a country\" first.But for many Ukraine-oriented residents, recent events have been a tragedy.\"My father is a businessman, now he is trying to sell all his businesses here before moving away. Many people I know have already left,\" said Olesia, 20, who refused to give her last name fearing retribution. \"I can love Luhansk only if it is a Ukrainian Luhansk.\"A Kremlin-linked MP, Vyacheslav Nikonov, said the Ukrainian military operation in eastern Ukraine represented \"genuine fascism\" and that the residents of Luhansk and Donetsk deserved no less support. \"Indeed, they deserve much more support from us than the residents of Crimea,\" he said.However, he added that Moscow would have to weigh the \"economic, political, and military risks\" before deciding whether it should absorb the regions.Gazprom, Russia's state energy company, also told Ukraine it had to settle a $3.5bn (\u00a32bn) gas debt and pay in advance for deliveries in June, or be cut off.In Brussels, EU foreign ministers added 13 people and two firms to their visa ban and asset freeze list over the Ukraine crisis, according to two officials who spoke on condition of anonymity because the measure had yet to be officially announced. The EU has targeted a number of officials but the sanctions have been far narrower than US sanctions over Ukraine.", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Europe", "World news", "Russia", "Germany"], "title": "Germany to aid Ukraine talks with separatists"},{"date": "2014-09-30T13:57:30Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Online electrical appliance retailer AO World is taking its first step overseas with the launch of a website in Germany.The site, which was promised at the time of AO\u2019s stock market flotation in February is launching six months ahead of schedule on 14 October. The company has set up a German warehouse, head office and delivery network in a bid to replicate its UK operation in offering low prices and speedy delivery.John Roberts, founder and chief executive of AO said: \u201cGermany is our stepping stone to realising our ambition to become the leading online retailer in our categories.\u201dAO said the early launch of its German site would bring forward some costs but it was trading well in the UK. It said it was continuing to gain market share and was on track to meet full year profit expectations.Analysts welcomed the reassurance about trading, but shares in AO remain well below the 285p flotation price at 194p. The company has been hit by worries that online retailers are looking over-valued amid difficulties for online fashion retailer Asos as it attempts to expand overseas.", "tags": ["AO World", "Retail industry", "Business", "Germany"], "title": "AO World to launch in Germany"},{"date": "2014-09-30T13:57:30Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Online electrical appliance retailer AO World is taking its first step overseas with the launch of a website in Germany.The site, which was promised at the time of AO\u2019s stock market flotation in February is launching six months ahead of schedule on 14 October. The company has set up a German warehouse, head office and delivery network in a bid to replicate its UK operation in offering low prices and speedy delivery.John Roberts, founder and chief executive of AO said: \u201cGermany is our stepping stone to realising our ambition to become the leading online retailer in our categories.\u201dAO said the early launch of its German site would bring forward some costs but it was trading well in the UK. It said it was continuing to gain market share and was on track to meet full year profit expectations.Analysts welcomed the reassurance about trading, but shares in AO remain well below the 285p flotation price at 194p. The company has been hit by worries that online retailers are looking over-valued amid difficulties for online fashion retailer Asos as it attempts to expand overseas.", "tags": ["AO World", "Retail industry", "Business", "Germany"], "title": "AO World to launch in Germany"},{"date": "2014-09-28T08:00:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "In his new Radio 4 series, Neil MacGregor will tell the history of Germany with a series of objects chosen from his new exhibition, Germany: Memories of a Nation, which opens at the British Museum on 16 October. We\u2019ve chosen five modern German objects that are unlikely to have made the cut.Fizzy and highly caffeinated, this beverage brewed in the Bavarian village of M\u00fcnchsteinach is the ambrosia of urbanised 21st-century Germans. Colloquially known as Hackerbrause, it enjoys a particularly cult status in Berlin\u2019s burgeoninghacking and digital startup scene, and played a crucial part in ensuring that Edward Snowden\u2019s revelations about NSA surveillance were met with more energised outrage in Germany than anywhere else.Demographics show that Germans are increasingly deserting the countryside and heading for the cities. Yet they can\u2019t stop fantasising about forests and freshly cut hay: Landlust, a rustic lifestyle bimonthly launched in 2005, sells over a million copies, more than the news weekly Der Spiegel. It could be the ultimate expression of a modern German obsession with Entschleunigung (slowing): the desire to take our stressful, work-focused lifestyles down a notch.Modern Germany is cautious about military interventions, having taken a stance against the war in Iraq in 2002 and air strikes in Libya in 2011. But it is also the world\u2019s third-largest arms exporter. Engineered and manufactured by a family-run business in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg, Heckler & Koch\u2019s submachine guns are a classic product of Germany\u2019s export-focused Mittelstand (small and medium sized companies). Campaigners estimate they kill an average of 114 people a year. Osama bin Laden was probably shot with an upgraded version of their MP7A1 assault rifle.For many Germans, the national colours are still more likely to cause discomfort rather than pride \u2013 unless there\u2019s an international football tournament taking place somewhere in the world. Ever since the 2006 World Cup, ritualised displays of \u201cparty patriotism\u201d have become an unshakable habit. Wing-mirror covers in black, red and gold are particularly popular: they are both more discreetly patriotic and considerably more aerodynamic than a large flag.Testimony to changing culinary habits, the influence of German-Turkish multiculturalism and the enduring appeal of German precision engineering, Alkadur RobotSystem is a rotating grill that shaves off its own slabs of kebab meat. The machine gained cult status when its inventor, Duran Kabakyer, made a grammatical boob on a talkshow by getting his articles mixed up and describing his creation as der Ger\u00e4t (the unit) as opposed to das Ger\u00e4t (the device).A popular rap song ponders whether the tireless, ever-efficient Alkadur will end up putting the entire nation out of work.", "tags": ["Germany", "Museums", "Radio 4", "BBC", "Europe", "Culture"], "title": "Five objects that make modern Germany"},{"date": "2014-09-30T13:57:30Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Online electrical appliance retailer AO World is taking its first step overseas with the launch of a website in Germany.The site, which was promised at the time of AO\u2019s stock market flotation in February is launching six months ahead of schedule on 14 October. The company has set up a German warehouse, head office and delivery network in a bid to replicate its UK operation in offering low prices and speedy delivery.John Roberts, founder and chief executive of AO said: \u201cGermany is our stepping stone to realising our ambition to become the leading online retailer in our categories.\u201dAO said the early launch of its German site would bring forward some costs but it was trading well in the UK. It said it was continuing to gain market share and was on track to meet full year profit expectations.Analysts welcomed the reassurance about trading, but shares in AO remain well below the 285p flotation price at 194p. The company has been hit by worries that online retailers are looking over-valued amid difficulties for online fashion retailer Asos as it attempts to expand overseas.", "tags": ["AO World", "Retail industry", "Business", "Germany"], "title": "AO World to launch in Germany"},{"date": "2014-09-28T08:00:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "In his new Radio 4 series, Neil MacGregor will tell the history of Germany with a series of objects chosen from his new exhibition, Germany: Memories of a Nation, which opens at the British Museum on 16 October. We\u2019ve chosen five modern German objects that are unlikely to have made the cut.Fizzy and highly caffeinated, this beverage brewed in the Bavarian village of M\u00fcnchsteinach is the ambrosia of urbanised 21st-century Germans. Colloquially known as Hackerbrause, it enjoys a particularly cult status in Berlin\u2019s burgeoninghacking and digital startup scene, and played a crucial part in ensuring that Edward Snowden\u2019s revelations about NSA surveillance were met with more energised outrage in Germany than anywhere else.Demographics show that Germans are increasingly deserting the countryside and heading for the cities. Yet they can\u2019t stop fantasising about forests and freshly cut hay: Landlust, a rustic lifestyle bimonthly launched in 2005, sells over a million copies, more than the news weekly Der Spiegel. It could be the ultimate expression of a modern German obsession with Entschleunigung (slowing): the desire to take our stressful, work-focused lifestyles down a notch.Modern Germany is cautious about military interventions, having taken a stance against the war in Iraq in 2002 and air strikes in Libya in 2011. But it is also the world\u2019s third-largest arms exporter. Engineered and manufactured by a family-run business in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg, Heckler & Koch\u2019s submachine guns are a classic product of Germany\u2019s export-focused Mittelstand (small and medium sized companies). Campaigners estimate they kill an average of 114 people a year. Osama bin Laden was probably shot with an upgraded version of their MP7A1 assault rifle.For many Germans, the national colours are still more likely to cause discomfort rather than pride \u2013 unless there\u2019s an international football tournament taking place somewhere in the world. Ever since the 2006 World Cup, ritualised displays of \u201cparty patriotism\u201d have become an unshakable habit. Wing-mirror covers in black, red and gold are particularly popular: they are both more discreetly patriotic and considerably more aerodynamic than a large flag.Testimony to changing culinary habits, the influence of German-Turkish multiculturalism and the enduring appeal of German precision engineering, Alkadur RobotSystem is a rotating grill that shaves off its own slabs of kebab meat. The machine gained cult status when its inventor, Duran Kabakyer, made a grammatical boob on a talkshow by getting his articles mixed up and describing his creation as der Ger\u00e4t (the unit) as opposed to das Ger\u00e4t (the device).A popular rap song ponders whether the tireless, ever-efficient Alkadur will end up putting the entire nation out of work.", "tags": ["Germany", "Museums", "Radio 4", "BBC", "Europe", "Culture"], "title": "Five objects that make modern Germany"},{"date": "2014-09-26T13:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It is 25 years since the Berlin Wall fell and a new Germany was born.\u00a0In the last quarter of a\u00a0century the country has seen an\u00a0unprecedented opening up of\u00a0archives and a\u00a0programme of national education and much public debate about the different inheritances of East and West Germany. There has also been an unprecedented building of monuments marking the horrors of\u00a0the recent past. But what are the memories that German citizens bring to their new state? What, in short, does the world look like if you are German?At the forefront of that memory is the Third Reich and the Holocaust.But there is more than that, and one\u00a0of the ways that German history is\u00a0not like other European histories is that Germans consciously use it as\u00a0a\u00a0warning to act differently in the future. As the historian Michael St\u00fcrmer says, \"for a\u00a0long time in Germany, history was what must not be allowed to happen again\". This is very different from Britain or France, where most public engagement with history, in terms of\u00a0monuments and memorials, is to honour valour and heroism, with little public recognition of\u00a0any wrongdoing, or of follies that might have led to the wars in which the\u00a0valour had to be demonstrated. What is striking about German war memorials is that they look forward not back \u2013 a characteristic clearly visible in their parliament building.The historic Reichstag was burnt out\u00a0in 1933, with the fire blamed on the\u00a0communists and used to advantage by\u00a0the Nazis. During the war it was badly damaged, then occupied by the\u00a0Russians. After reunification the decision was made to restore it, but the\u00a0marks of the 1933 fire, as well as graffiti made by Soviet soldiers, were left untouched, as a reminder to legislators that if you get things as wrong as\u00a0Germany did then the consequences are unimaginably terrible. An MP travelling to the Reichstag today will pass not only the Holocaust memorial but also memorials to the killing of homosexuals, disabled people and Roma. When they get to the building, they find it topped by a huge glass dome, to which the public have access. So not only do you have an emblem of a transparent legislature, but the public can literally exercise oversight over their government \u2013 a direct reversal of\u00a0the situation under both the Nazis and the Stasi.In effect the building is a meditation on different aspects of history. I can't think of another country in the world that lives so closely with the acutely uncomfortable reminders of its past in\u00a0order to help it act more wisely in\u00a0future.In making our radio series, British Museum exhibition and book we have tried to look at objects that evoke memories of which pretty well all Germans can say \"this is\u00a0part of me\". Some are obvious, such as the Gutenberg Bible. Every German knows that Germany invented printing and, in\u00a0that sense, made the modern world. But we have also tried to focus on elements that the British public might not be so familiar with, as well as\u00a0areas of German history about which there is\u00a0still a reticence in Germany. People talk about the Holocaust very honestly and fully, but subjects such as\u00a0the huge\u00a0civilian losses from allied bombing raids are little discussed, unlike in this country. Yet\u00a0it\u00a0remains a\u00a0potent memory.It has always been the British Museum's job to present the history we\u00a0need in order to make sense of now.\u00a0Germany is the European state we\u00a0most need to understand if we are going to comprehend both Europe, and\u00a0the world.'An instrument of state surveillance'The official account of oppression in East Germany does exist in the state archives, but it is written in such a deliberately bland and concealing way as to give very little impression of what actually happened. This cheaply made blue wetsuit with white zips, probably worn only once, tells you far more. Breaching the Berlin Wall wasn't the only route to the west. A hundred miles north was another favoured crossing point, if\u00a0you were willing to sail across the Baltic in a rubber dinghy, as the owner of the wetsuit had intended to\u00a0in November 1987 \u2013 despite the likeliest outcome being either dying of hypothermia or being shot. In this instance, the man was arrested before he even set off, but the fact was that people were still willing to risk their lives just two years before the Berlin Wall came down. Equally revealing is what happened after the\u00a0man was sent to prison and the wet\u00a0suit was confiscated by the Stasi. They used it as a training prop to instruct their informants as to what sort of products they should watch out for. Why would anyone need a\u00a0wetsuit, or plastics or rubber that could be made into a wetsuit, or a\u00a0dinghy, or anything that could be turned into a flying machine, or used as tunnelling equipment? And so on. If you saw your neighbours buying, or\u00a0possessing these things, you were to let the Stasi know. So the wetsuit is\u00a0not only evidence of one citizen wanting to flee, it also became an symbol of state surveillance, designed to prevent others from trying to escape.One of the most remarkable things to come out of opening the Stasi archives was evidence of the extent of this surveillance. It is reckoned that one in three of the population of the GDR was at some time, in some way, informing on their\u00a0friends, neighbours or families. The memory of that has had profound implications for the new German state. If you walk round Berlin today you will see \u2013 in stark contrast to Britain \u2013 almost no CCTV cameras. Edward Snowden's revelations of state surveillance made him, again in\u00a0contrast to the UK, something of a\u00a0national hero in Germany, with effigies of him paraded in the streets\u00a0during Mardi Gras carnival processions. Germany's assiduous public study of its uncomfortable modern history has ensured that every adult knows what happened under both the Nazis and the Stasi. They know these things were done by\u00a0the state in the name of the people. This wetsuit is a reminder of\u00a0what can happen if the citizen fails to keep the state under control.'A citizen of the world'We tend to think that all the great writers are somehow the same: Dante, Shakespeare, Cervantes. But Goethe is different. Of course, he is the great writer that every German schoolchild learns and reads as we do Shakespeare, but more than that he represents a\u00a0German belief in openness to the world. The 1787 Tischbein portrait is the most famous portrait in the whole of Germany. It shows Goethe in Italy. He had just become a European celebrity after the publication of The\u00a0Sorrows of Young Werther (the Clockwork Orange of the 18th century), and he was the first to make German a\u00a0literary language read by foreigners. There is a wonderful German word \u2013 Weltb\u00fcrger \u2013 a citizen of\u00a0the world. That is how Goethe is shown here. Engaged with, appropriating and interpreting the whole world, he makes clear that you need to know about Britain and France, about Greece and Rome \u2013 you cannot have a culture that is only German. He also, strikingly, engaged with Islam in a way that is a\u00a0significant part of the contemporary debate about how Germany should respond to its Muslim population.Understandably, the Nazis were ambivalent about him. He was, of course, a hero, but they didn't like the\u00a0indecisiveness of his protagonists (most of his heroes can't make up their minds), and, above all, they didn't like his willingness to look for models of behaviour outside Germany.'A memory of their local sausage'De Gaulle once complained about how difficult it was to govern a country with\u00a0246 different cheeses. He did not know how lucky he was. Germany has more than four times as many types of\u00a0sausage. What those sausages tell you is that the regional identity of Germany is still flourishing in a way that has probably never been the case in England, where there has been a\u00a0centralised government in a dominant London for 1,000 years. Because of Germany's political fragmentation until 1870, and the deep differences in\u00a0dialect and local history, there is a\u00a0lively regional variety in Germany, expressed gastronomically through wine, beer and sausages, and politically through the L\u00e4nder system. Each Land, or state has its own two-house parliament. Hamburg, for example, has survived unbroken as a city state since the early Middle Ages.One of the big questions for a\u00a0country that has never had fixed frontiers at its edges, and contains an\u00a0extraordinary range of diversity, is:\u00a0what does it share? Language, beer and sausages are among the shared things, and all have pronounced local flavours. Even today you can tell where\u00a0you are in Germany by what kind of sausage you are offered and the\u00a0way people \u2013 of every class \u2013 pronounce their German. Pretty well all Germans\u00a0carry both a local accent, and\u00a0a memory of their local sausage.'National artist of Germany'Within a generation of the invention of printing, the Germans had done everything you can do with print; books, broadsheets, pamphlets and images. The great concentration of autonomous cities linked by rivers in south\u00a0Germany provided the ideal communications and distribution network for a large, literate and prosperous population. Albrecht D\u00fcrer, working in one of the great trading centres, Nuremberg, realised that as a maker of prints he could sell his art across the whole of the\u00a0continent, and, just as Goethe was the first German writer to be read across Europe, D\u00fcrer was the first major artist anywhere to make his work for a pan-European market. To protect his continent-wide success, he invented his own logo, in\u00a0the form of the famous AD (which he later successfully defended in Venice). His work\u00a0is\u00a0familiar to every German, in particular his two great engravings, Knight, Death and the Devil, and Melancholia, which were long taken as\u00a0two aspects of one national self-portrait: the knight riding bravely out to do what must be done; the figure of creative genius slumped on the floor, aware of so many creative possibilities that he is unable to act at all. The different sides of the German spirit.D\u00fcrer is a national artist of Germany in a different way from Turner or Constable in Britain, who explore landscape. D\u00fcrer, working in the early 16th century, is focused on character; you may explore your own \u2013 and Germany's \u2013 experiences in the light of\u00a0his images.'The celebrated porcelain menagerie'All Germans know their country is one of the great centres of technological innovation. And one of the great technological breakthroughs ever was made by Johann B\u00f6ttger, a man who was something between an alchemist and a chemist working in Dresden in around 1710. He was the first European to discover how to make porcelain. At\u00a0the time, Chinese porcelain was one\u00a0of the most precious things in Europe, but nobody in the west knew what it\u00a0was made of. After a long process of\u00a0trial and error, B\u00f6ttger worked it out.\u00a0The result was that his\u00a0patron, Augustus the Strong, ruler of\u00a0Saxony, now had something that no\u00a0other European head of state had, or\u00a0could give as a present to potential allies. For\u00a0a few decades Dresden porcelain was Saxony's equivalent of\u00a0panda diplomacy.The Chinese had used porcelain in\u00a0quite limited ways, for vessels and dishes. Dresden flamboyantly made sculptures, especially of animals, demonstrating total mastery of a\u00a0very\u00a0difficult medium and technique. In\u00a0the\u00a0celebrated porcelain menagerie in\u00a0the royal palace, the figures of the\u00a0hen, fox, peacock etc were modelled on real animals. But for the\u00a0rhinoceros the craftsmen went to\u00a0D\u00fcrer, who had\u00a0never seen a rhinoceros, but nonetheless produced a\u00a0print based on\u00a0reports sent from Lisbon. By\u00a0the early 1700s, real rhinoceroses had been\u00a0seen, but, like many Germans\u00a0before and since, they preferred to see the world through D\u00fcrer's eyes. The Dresden porcelain rhinoceros, with its pugnacious charm\u00a0and its anatomical oddities, is\u00a0completely unforgettable.After the second world war, Meissen found itself in the Soviet zone,\u00a0but the Russians kept the industry going, and so\u00a0the factory set up by Augustus the Strong received commissions to make official portraits of the\u00a0leaders of the communist East German state. You can't be a\u00a0ruler of Germany, control Dresden, and not mind about\u00a0porcelain.'Supremacy in precision engineering in metal'The Germans are masters of metal. In the Saarland and the Ruhr there is\u00a0a metallurgic tradition that goes back thousands of years, and the country has long defined itself through high-end metal engineering in every field. By 1500, precision instrument making was dominated by south Germany and that is where buyers still go today. Gutenberg could\u00a0make movable type only because there were people nearby who knew how to manufacture hundreds of identical pieces of metal. Shakespeare talks about expensive German clocks. Despite what Harry Lime, the third man, said, it was Germany not Switzerland that almost certainly invented the cuckoo clock.Unsurprisingly, the Germans were\u00a0also the first people to dominate the\u00a0top end of the car market with Daimler-Benz and Mercedes. But one\u00a0of the extraordinary developments of\u00a0the 1930s was that Hitler decided he wanted Germany to be like the US\u00a0and produce cars for everybody. The\u00a0Volkswagen was an\u00a0attempt to do\u00a0something odd in German history, produce a low-cost,\u00a0mass-market engineering product. But it was not an economic proposition, war was approaching, metal was needed for other things, and production was stopped.After the war the British took over the plant, but no British car manufacturer liked the design and so the\u00a0Germans resumed ownership. Reverting to their high-skill traditions, they then turned what had\u00a0been meant to be a cheap mass\u2011market car into something of\u00a0extremely high quality, but with\u00a0as low a price as possible. The\u00a0Volkswagen became the emblem of\u00a0both the long German tradition of\u00a0supremacy in precision engineering in metal, and also of the postwar economic miracle of the Federal Republic.'The grief of the survivor' In Britain, France and elsewhere, most war memorials are designed to honour the dead. What is striking in Germany is the focus on those who are\u00a0left; monuments that depict the\u00a0grief of the survivor. And in the 20th century, with its many catastrophic killings, there have been many grieving survivors. K\u00e4the Kollwitz explored all through her life how the image of one mother's pain can carry the sorrow of a\u00a0continent.Kollwitz was a mother whose son had died in October 1914. Peter had been too young to join up for the first world war and needed his father's approval. The father was reluctant, but Kollwitz persuaded her husband to let the boy go. He was killed 10 days later. So she had not only a profound sense of loss, but also of guilt and responsibility. When she was asked to provide the memorial at the cemetery where her son was buried, she turned that mix of emotions into an exploration of the cosmic tragedy of the first world war. She made a simple image of two parents, on their knees, separate, isolated in their own grief, looking over the cemetery full of the young dead. There is no image of the son.In 1937, Kollwitz was still working through the sorrow of 1914 and on the anniversary of her son's death that year she wrote in her diary about making a small sculpture that has \"become something like a Piet\u00e0 [a depiction of Mary with the dead Christ]\". But she had moved far away from any Christian tradition or convention and found a powerful way of articulating the desolation of those who are left. Nothing in this later sculpture suggests sacrifice to achieve a higher purpose. There is no hint of\u00a0salvation, merely a silent response to\u00a0slaughter.After the reunification of Germany in 1990, Chancellor Helmut Kohl proposed a National Monument to all Victims of War and Tyranny in the Neue Wache in Berlin. The image he chose was an enlarged version of that sculpture created in 1937 by Kollwitz, herself both witness and victim. It was a striking, brilliant insight on the part of Kohl to see the analogy between Kollwitz's mother protecting her child, and the state's recognition of its duty to defend all those over whom it has power \u2013 and in either case, the terrible cost of failure.'A quiet, profound protest'All the concentration camps had slogans on their gates. Often it was Arbeit Macht Frei (Work makes you free). However, in Buchenwald, a\u00a0labour (not a death) camp \u2013 although many thousands of people were worked to death or deliberately killed there \u2013 the Nazis chose the motto Jedem Das Seine (To Each What They\u00a0Are Due). It was placed on the inside of the gate rather than the outside, so that every prisoner was reminded of it as they looked to the world outside.The words are a powerful statement \u2013 and in this context a complete and provocative perversion of any notion of justice. They are the German translation of the Roman law maxim Suum cuique, incorporated not just into German law but legal systems across Europe. They are the title of a Bach cantata performed in Weimar, the city of Goethe and Schiller, just 10 miles from Buchenwald. And this gate, so close to\u00a0Weimar, raises the unanswerable question of modern German history: how can these different components of\u00a0the German story fit together? How could all these humane traditions of justice and scholarship, music and law \u2013 of a civilised society \u2013 all collapse in the Nazi abyss?The Nazi authorities conscripted one of the inmates of the camp to design the words. Franz Ehrlich had been interned as a communist on trumped-up charges of treason. He had trained at the Bauhaus, the famous school of design, also in nearby Weimar, which was loathed by the Nazis for its internationalism and modernism. Ehrlich nonetheless used a beautiful Bauhaus typeface of the sort that the Nazis categorically disapproved of. Astonishingly, they didn't seem to notice. It is impossible not to read the sign as a quiet, profound protest. Ehrlich was compelled to design this hateful, callous motto, but he did it in a way that showed that another Germany, a humane, international Germany, survived. These shocking words in that typeface suggest that people, even in terrible circumstance, may sometimes find a way of asserting dignity.'The rubble women'WG Sebald has written about the striking gap in German public and literary discourse about what the allied bombings did to the civilian population. There is probably more debate about the fire-bombing of Dresden in this country than in Germany. Sebald suggests this may be because the bombing was seen as deserved retribution and therefore the victims were not entitled to talk about their suffering. But the memory of the bombings and the losses is strong, and Dresden is a very particular case and memory. The same Augustus of the porcelain rhinoceros also built the beautiful 18th-century city and filled it with supreme art treasures . Then, on the 12th and 13th ofFebruary 1945, the city was, reduced to rubble by British and American bombers. Later In July and August that year the Soviets removed the entire art collection. Every part of Dresden's identity had been lost. But how did you start clearing up the colossal mess? All able-bodied women \u2013 there were few men \u2013 were conscripted to clear the rubble, mostly with their bare hands. And with astonishing speed the Tr\u00fcmmerfrauen (the rubble women) made Dresden, and Germany, habitable again by clearing away not only the destroyed buildings, but also the thousands of bodies that had been incinerated within them.The sculptor Max Lachnit, who worked in Dresden, lost all his work in the air raid. He made this little statue of one of the Tr\u00fcmmerfrau from bits of coloured stone he found in the ruins. She is young, looking steadfastly forward, totally impassive. We have no idea who she is \u2013 she stands for thousands. It is not a\u00a0great work of art, but it encapsulates one of the deep memories of many Germans, of the endless rubble, of the late 1940s, and of the huge army of women who cleared it. Only then could the reconstruction of the cities, and the economy, begin.'The quest for resolution and reconciliation'The biography of Ernst Barlach's sculpture is the biography of Germany in the 20th century. Barlach had joined up for the first world war as a committed patriot who wanted to fight. His experience of the trenches had made him a\u00a0pacifist. He built this memorial to\u00a0those killed in the war and to remember those who remained \u2013 using the face of\u00a0his friend the artist K\u00e4the Kollwitz \u2013 for the Protestant cathedral of G\u00fcstrow, a small town just over 100 miles to the north of Berlin. His Hovering Angel, suspended from the ceiling \u2013 so elevating individual grief into general mourning \u2013 is an evocation of a mother looking west, to\u00a0the killing fields of Flanders, grieving serenely, perpetually, for her dead\u00a0son. It is about reflecting on responsibility for the war, and sorrow for its consequences.Of course, the Nazis hated its pacifism. Eventually they took it away and melted down the bronze to use as material for the next war. After it was removed from the cathedral in 1938, Barlach's friends, assisted by a dealer who had suspiciously good relations with the authorities, located the original plaster mould and made a\u00a0second bronze, which was buried for\u00a0safe-keeping. When that emerged after\u00a0the war, it was in the west, and the angel's previous home G\u00fcstrow, a small town just over 100 miles to the north of Berlin was in the east. So the second bronze went to the Antonite Church in Cologne. There, on\u00a0the slab in the floor below it, they added to the dates 1914\u20131918, the years 1933-1945. The strength of the Angel's symbolic power, they believed, was able to carry not just the sorrow of the\u00a0first war, but\u00a0the added burden of\u00a0the further millions of losses and deaths of\u00a0the entire Nazi period.In the early 50s, against the backdrop of the cold war, another cast of\u00a0the version in Cologne was made, and\u00a0sent to G\u00fcstrow, as an act of reconciliation and friendship. So another layer of meaning was added to\u00a0Barlach's image. When in 1981 West German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt made an official visit to East Germany, he stood beneath the angel in G\u00fcstrow with GDR leader, Erich Honecker and talked of what the two German states might share. When we asked to\u00a0borrow it for the British Museum exhibition, the congregation of G\u00fcstrow Cathedral had to\u00a0give their agreement. After much reflection they eventually decided that the purpose of\u00a0the object was to promote healing and reconciliation, and that, 100 years after 1914, reconciliation was still needed between Britain and Germany. So it will come to\u00a0London. In\u00a0the exhibition here, this third version of Barlach's Angel will embody the war fever of 1914; pacifism in the 1920s; the\u00a0humane art of K\u00e4the Kollwitz; the destruction of \"degenerate art\" by the\u00a0Nazis; the western front in the first world war and the bombing of Berlin in\u00a0the second; the postwar division of Germany and the dialogues that were possible in spite of it; the millions of victims of 20th-century conflicts; the continuing painful and difficult conversations between Germany and the rest of the world in the quest for resolution and reconciliation; and unquenchable hope.I can't think of any other exhibit that\u00a0has such profound resonance. I\u00a0hope people will respond to the generosity and earnestness of the people of G\u00fcstrow, who, by allowing it\u00a0to come to London, have added yet\u00a0another new dimension to this remarkable sculpture.\u2022 Germany: Memories of a Nation is on BBC Radio 4, Monday to Friday at 9.45am, for six weeks from 29\u00a0September. The\u00a0exhibition opens at the British Museum on 16 October, britishmuseum.org. Germany:\u00a0Memories of a Nation by Neil MacGregor is published by Allen Lane on 6 November (\u00a325).", "tags": ["Society", "History", "Books", "Art and design", "Exhibitions", "Radio 4", "Radio", "Television & radio", "Museums", "Culture", "Berlin Wall", "Germany", "World news"], "title": "Ten objects that made modern Germany"},{"date": "2014-09-30T13:57:30Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Online electrical appliance retailer AO World is taking its first step overseas with the launch of a website in Germany.The site, which was promised at the time of AO\u2019s stock market flotation in February is launching six months ahead of schedule on 14 October. The company has set up a German warehouse, head office and delivery network in a bid to replicate its UK operation in offering low prices and speedy delivery.John Roberts, founder and chief executive of AO said: \u201cGermany is our stepping stone to realising our ambition to become the leading online retailer in our categories.\u201dAO said the early launch of its German site would bring forward some costs but it was trading well in the UK. It said it was continuing to gain market share and was on track to meet full year profit expectations.Analysts welcomed the reassurance about trading, but shares in AO remain well below the 285p flotation price at 194p. The company has been hit by worries that online retailers are looking over-valued amid difficulties for online fashion retailer Asos as it attempts to expand overseas.", "tags": ["AO World", "Retail industry", "Business", "Germany"], "title": "AO World to launch in Germany"},{"date": "2014-09-28T08:00:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "In his new Radio 4 series, Neil MacGregor will tell the history of Germany with a series of objects chosen from his new exhibition, Germany: Memories of a Nation, which opens at the British Museum on 16 October. We\u2019ve chosen five modern German objects that are unlikely to have made the cut.Fizzy and highly caffeinated, this beverage brewed in the Bavarian village of M\u00fcnchsteinach is the ambrosia of urbanised 21st-century Germans. Colloquially known as Hackerbrause, it enjoys a particularly cult status in Berlin\u2019s burgeoninghacking and digital startup scene, and played a crucial part in ensuring that Edward Snowden\u2019s revelations about NSA surveillance were met with more energised outrage in Germany than anywhere else.Demographics show that Germans are increasingly deserting the countryside and heading for the cities. Yet they can\u2019t stop fantasising about forests and freshly cut hay: Landlust, a rustic lifestyle bimonthly launched in 2005, sells over a million copies, more than the news weekly Der Spiegel. It could be the ultimate expression of a modern German obsession with Entschleunigung (slowing): the desire to take our stressful, work-focused lifestyles down a notch.Modern Germany is cautious about military interventions, having taken a stance against the war in Iraq in 2002 and air strikes in Libya in 2011. But it is also the world\u2019s third-largest arms exporter. Engineered and manufactured by a family-run business in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg, Heckler & Koch\u2019s submachine guns are a classic product of Germany\u2019s export-focused Mittelstand (small and medium sized companies). Campaigners estimate they kill an average of 114 people a year. Osama bin Laden was probably shot with an upgraded version of their MP7A1 assault rifle.For many Germans, the national colours are still more likely to cause discomfort rather than pride \u2013 unless there\u2019s an international football tournament taking place somewhere in the world. Ever since the 2006 World Cup, ritualised displays of \u201cparty patriotism\u201d have become an unshakable habit. Wing-mirror covers in black, red and gold are particularly popular: they are both more discreetly patriotic and considerably more aerodynamic than a large flag.Testimony to changing culinary habits, the influence of German-Turkish multiculturalism and the enduring appeal of German precision engineering, Alkadur RobotSystem is a rotating grill that shaves off its own slabs of kebab meat. The machine gained cult status when its inventor, Duran Kabakyer, made a grammatical boob on a talkshow by getting his articles mixed up and describing his creation as der Ger\u00e4t (the unit) as opposed to das Ger\u00e4t (the device).A popular rap song ponders whether the tireless, ever-efficient Alkadur will end up putting the entire nation out of work.", "tags": ["Germany", "Museums", "Radio 4", "BBC", "Europe", "Culture"], "title": "Five objects that make modern Germany"},{"date": "2014-09-26T13:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It is 25 years since the Berlin Wall fell and a new Germany was born.\u00a0In the last quarter of a\u00a0century the country has seen an\u00a0unprecedented opening up of\u00a0archives and a\u00a0programme of national education and much public debate about the different inheritances of East and West Germany. There has also been an unprecedented building of monuments marking the horrors of\u00a0the recent past. But what are the memories that German citizens bring to their new state? What, in short, does the world look like if you are German?At the forefront of that memory is the Third Reich and the Holocaust.But there is more than that, and one\u00a0of the ways that German history is\u00a0not like other European histories is that Germans consciously use it as\u00a0a\u00a0warning to act differently in the future. As the historian Michael St\u00fcrmer says, \"for a\u00a0long time in Germany, history was what must not be allowed to happen again\". This is very different from Britain or France, where most public engagement with history, in terms of\u00a0monuments and memorials, is to honour valour and heroism, with little public recognition of\u00a0any wrongdoing, or of follies that might have led to the wars in which the\u00a0valour had to be demonstrated. What is striking about German war memorials is that they look forward not back \u2013 a characteristic clearly visible in their parliament building.The historic Reichstag was burnt out\u00a0in 1933, with the fire blamed on the\u00a0communists and used to advantage by\u00a0the Nazis. During the war it was badly damaged, then occupied by the\u00a0Russians. After reunification the decision was made to restore it, but the\u00a0marks of the 1933 fire, as well as graffiti made by Soviet soldiers, were left untouched, as a reminder to legislators that if you get things as wrong as\u00a0Germany did then the consequences are unimaginably terrible. An MP travelling to the Reichstag today will pass not only the Holocaust memorial but also memorials to the killing of homosexuals, disabled people and Roma. When they get to the building, they find it topped by a huge glass dome, to which the public have access. So not only do you have an emblem of a transparent legislature, but the public can literally exercise oversight over their government \u2013 a direct reversal of\u00a0the situation under both the Nazis and the Stasi.In effect the building is a meditation on different aspects of history. I can't think of another country in the world that lives so closely with the acutely uncomfortable reminders of its past in\u00a0order to help it act more wisely in\u00a0future.In making our radio series, British Museum exhibition and book we have tried to look at objects that evoke memories of which pretty well all Germans can say \"this is\u00a0part of me\". Some are obvious, such as the Gutenberg Bible. Every German knows that Germany invented printing and, in\u00a0that sense, made the modern world. But we have also tried to focus on elements that the British public might not be so familiar with, as well as\u00a0areas of German history about which there is\u00a0still a reticence in Germany. People talk about the Holocaust very honestly and fully, but subjects such as\u00a0the huge\u00a0civilian losses from allied bombing raids are little discussed, unlike in this country. Yet\u00a0it\u00a0remains a\u00a0potent memory.It has always been the British Museum's job to present the history we\u00a0need in order to make sense of now.\u00a0Germany is the European state we\u00a0most need to understand if we are going to comprehend both Europe, and\u00a0the world.'An instrument of state surveillance'The official account of oppression in East Germany does exist in the state archives, but it is written in such a deliberately bland and concealing way as to give very little impression of what actually happened. This cheaply made blue wetsuit with white zips, probably worn only once, tells you far more. Breaching the Berlin Wall wasn't the only route to the west. A hundred miles north was another favoured crossing point, if\u00a0you were willing to sail across the Baltic in a rubber dinghy, as the owner of the wetsuit had intended to\u00a0in November 1987 \u2013 despite the likeliest outcome being either dying of hypothermia or being shot. In this instance, the man was arrested before he even set off, but the fact was that people were still willing to risk their lives just two years before the Berlin Wall came down. Equally revealing is what happened after the\u00a0man was sent to prison and the wet\u00a0suit was confiscated by the Stasi. They used it as a training prop to instruct their informants as to what sort of products they should watch out for. Why would anyone need a\u00a0wetsuit, or plastics or rubber that could be made into a wetsuit, or a\u00a0dinghy, or anything that could be turned into a flying machine, or used as tunnelling equipment? And so on. If you saw your neighbours buying, or\u00a0possessing these things, you were to let the Stasi know. So the wetsuit is\u00a0not only evidence of one citizen wanting to flee, it also became an symbol of state surveillance, designed to prevent others from trying to escape.One of the most remarkable things to come out of opening the Stasi archives was evidence of the extent of this surveillance. It is reckoned that one in three of the population of the GDR was at some time, in some way, informing on their\u00a0friends, neighbours or families. The memory of that has had profound implications for the new German state. If you walk round Berlin today you will see \u2013 in stark contrast to Britain \u2013 almost no CCTV cameras. Edward Snowden's revelations of state surveillance made him, again in\u00a0contrast to the UK, something of a\u00a0national hero in Germany, with effigies of him paraded in the streets\u00a0during Mardi Gras carnival processions. Germany's assiduous public study of its uncomfortable modern history has ensured that every adult knows what happened under both the Nazis and the Stasi. They know these things were done by\u00a0the state in the name of the people. This wetsuit is a reminder of\u00a0what can happen if the citizen fails to keep the state under control.'A citizen of the world'We tend to think that all the great writers are somehow the same: Dante, Shakespeare, Cervantes. But Goethe is different. Of course, he is the great writer that every German schoolchild learns and reads as we do Shakespeare, but more than that he represents a\u00a0German belief in openness to the world. The 1787 Tischbein portrait is the most famous portrait in the whole of Germany. It shows Goethe in Italy. He had just become a European celebrity after the publication of The\u00a0Sorrows of Young Werther (the Clockwork Orange of the 18th century), and he was the first to make German a\u00a0literary language read by foreigners. There is a wonderful German word \u2013 Weltb\u00fcrger \u2013 a citizen of\u00a0the world. That is how Goethe is shown here. Engaged with, appropriating and interpreting the whole world, he makes clear that you need to know about Britain and France, about Greece and Rome \u2013 you cannot have a culture that is only German. He also, strikingly, engaged with Islam in a way that is a\u00a0significant part of the contemporary debate about how Germany should respond to its Muslim population.Understandably, the Nazis were ambivalent about him. He was, of course, a hero, but they didn't like the\u00a0indecisiveness of his protagonists (most of his heroes can't make up their minds), and, above all, they didn't like his willingness to look for models of behaviour outside Germany.'A memory of their local sausage'De Gaulle once complained about how difficult it was to govern a country with\u00a0246 different cheeses. He did not know how lucky he was. Germany has more than four times as many types of\u00a0sausage. What those sausages tell you is that the regional identity of Germany is still flourishing in a way that has probably never been the case in England, where there has been a\u00a0centralised government in a dominant London for 1,000 years. Because of Germany's political fragmentation until 1870, and the deep differences in\u00a0dialect and local history, there is a\u00a0lively regional variety in Germany, expressed gastronomically through wine, beer and sausages, and politically through the L\u00e4nder system. Each Land, or state has its own two-house parliament. Hamburg, for example, has survived unbroken as a city state since the early Middle Ages.One of the big questions for a\u00a0country that has never had fixed frontiers at its edges, and contains an\u00a0extraordinary range of diversity, is:\u00a0what does it share? Language, beer and sausages are among the shared things, and all have pronounced local flavours. Even today you can tell where\u00a0you are in Germany by what kind of sausage you are offered and the\u00a0way people \u2013 of every class \u2013 pronounce their German. Pretty well all Germans\u00a0carry both a local accent, and\u00a0a memory of their local sausage.'National artist of Germany'Within a generation of the invention of printing, the Germans had done everything you can do with print; books, broadsheets, pamphlets and images. The great concentration of autonomous cities linked by rivers in south\u00a0Germany provided the ideal communications and distribution network for a large, literate and prosperous population. Albrecht D\u00fcrer, working in one of the great trading centres, Nuremberg, realised that as a maker of prints he could sell his art across the whole of the\u00a0continent, and, just as Goethe was the first German writer to be read across Europe, D\u00fcrer was the first major artist anywhere to make his work for a pan-European market. To protect his continent-wide success, he invented his own logo, in\u00a0the form of the famous AD (which he later successfully defended in Venice). His work\u00a0is\u00a0familiar to every German, in particular his two great engravings, Knight, Death and the Devil, and Melancholia, which were long taken as\u00a0two aspects of one national self-portrait: the knight riding bravely out to do what must be done; the figure of creative genius slumped on the floor, aware of so many creative possibilities that he is unable to act at all. The different sides of the German spirit.D\u00fcrer is a national artist of Germany in a different way from Turner or Constable in Britain, who explore landscape. D\u00fcrer, working in the early 16th century, is focused on character; you may explore your own \u2013 and Germany's \u2013 experiences in the light of\u00a0his images.'The celebrated porcelain menagerie'All Germans know their country is one of the great centres of technological innovation. And one of the great technological breakthroughs ever was made by Johann B\u00f6ttger, a man who was something between an alchemist and a chemist working in Dresden in around 1710. He was the first European to discover how to make porcelain. At\u00a0the time, Chinese porcelain was one\u00a0of the most precious things in Europe, but nobody in the west knew what it\u00a0was made of. After a long process of\u00a0trial and error, B\u00f6ttger worked it out.\u00a0The result was that his\u00a0patron, Augustus the Strong, ruler of\u00a0Saxony, now had something that no\u00a0other European head of state had, or\u00a0could give as a present to potential allies. For\u00a0a few decades Dresden porcelain was Saxony's equivalent of\u00a0panda diplomacy.The Chinese had used porcelain in\u00a0quite limited ways, for vessels and dishes. Dresden flamboyantly made sculptures, especially of animals, demonstrating total mastery of a\u00a0very\u00a0difficult medium and technique. In\u00a0the\u00a0celebrated porcelain menagerie in\u00a0the royal palace, the figures of the\u00a0hen, fox, peacock etc were modelled on real animals. But for the\u00a0rhinoceros the craftsmen went to\u00a0D\u00fcrer, who had\u00a0never seen a rhinoceros, but nonetheless produced a\u00a0print based on\u00a0reports sent from Lisbon. By\u00a0the early 1700s, real rhinoceroses had been\u00a0seen, but, like many Germans\u00a0before and since, they preferred to see the world through D\u00fcrer's eyes. The Dresden porcelain rhinoceros, with its pugnacious charm\u00a0and its anatomical oddities, is\u00a0completely unforgettable.After the second world war, Meissen found itself in the Soviet zone,\u00a0but the Russians kept the industry going, and so\u00a0the factory set up by Augustus the Strong received commissions to make official portraits of the\u00a0leaders of the communist East German state. You can't be a\u00a0ruler of Germany, control Dresden, and not mind about\u00a0porcelain.'Supremacy in precision engineering in metal'The Germans are masters of metal. In the Saarland and the Ruhr there is\u00a0a metallurgic tradition that goes back thousands of years, and the country has long defined itself through high-end metal engineering in every field. By 1500, precision instrument making was dominated by south Germany and that is where buyers still go today. Gutenberg could\u00a0make movable type only because there were people nearby who knew how to manufacture hundreds of identical pieces of metal. Shakespeare talks about expensive German clocks. Despite what Harry Lime, the third man, said, it was Germany not Switzerland that almost certainly invented the cuckoo clock.Unsurprisingly, the Germans were\u00a0also the first people to dominate the\u00a0top end of the car market with Daimler-Benz and Mercedes. But one\u00a0of the extraordinary developments of\u00a0the 1930s was that Hitler decided he wanted Germany to be like the US\u00a0and produce cars for everybody. The\u00a0Volkswagen was an\u00a0attempt to do\u00a0something odd in German history, produce a low-cost,\u00a0mass-market engineering product. But it was not an economic proposition, war was approaching, metal was needed for other things, and production was stopped.After the war the British took over the plant, but no British car manufacturer liked the design and so the\u00a0Germans resumed ownership. Reverting to their high-skill traditions, they then turned what had\u00a0been meant to be a cheap mass\u2011market car into something of\u00a0extremely high quality, but with\u00a0as low a price as possible. The\u00a0Volkswagen became the emblem of\u00a0both the long German tradition of\u00a0supremacy in precision engineering in metal, and also of the postwar economic miracle of the Federal Republic.'The grief of the survivor' In Britain, France and elsewhere, most war memorials are designed to honour the dead. What is striking in Germany is the focus on those who are\u00a0left; monuments that depict the\u00a0grief of the survivor. And in the 20th century, with its many catastrophic killings, there have been many grieving survivors. K\u00e4the Kollwitz explored all through her life how the image of one mother's pain can carry the sorrow of a\u00a0continent.Kollwitz was a mother whose son had died in October 1914. Peter had been too young to join up for the first world war and needed his father's approval. The father was reluctant, but Kollwitz persuaded her husband to let the boy go. He was killed 10 days later. So she had not only a profound sense of loss, but also of guilt and responsibility. When she was asked to provide the memorial at the cemetery where her son was buried, she turned that mix of emotions into an exploration of the cosmic tragedy of the first world war. She made a simple image of two parents, on their knees, separate, isolated in their own grief, looking over the cemetery full of the young dead. There is no image of the son.In 1937, Kollwitz was still working through the sorrow of 1914 and on the anniversary of her son's death that year she wrote in her diary about making a small sculpture that has \"become something like a Piet\u00e0 [a depiction of Mary with the dead Christ]\". But she had moved far away from any Christian tradition or convention and found a powerful way of articulating the desolation of those who are left. Nothing in this later sculpture suggests sacrifice to achieve a higher purpose. There is no hint of\u00a0salvation, merely a silent response to\u00a0slaughter.After the reunification of Germany in 1990, Chancellor Helmut Kohl proposed a National Monument to all Victims of War and Tyranny in the Neue Wache in Berlin. The image he chose was an enlarged version of that sculpture created in 1937 by Kollwitz, herself both witness and victim. It was a striking, brilliant insight on the part of Kohl to see the analogy between Kollwitz's mother protecting her child, and the state's recognition of its duty to defend all those over whom it has power \u2013 and in either case, the terrible cost of failure.'A quiet, profound protest'All the concentration camps had slogans on their gates. Often it was Arbeit Macht Frei (Work makes you free). However, in Buchenwald, a\u00a0labour (not a death) camp \u2013 although many thousands of people were worked to death or deliberately killed there \u2013 the Nazis chose the motto Jedem Das Seine (To Each What They\u00a0Are Due). It was placed on the inside of the gate rather than the outside, so that every prisoner was reminded of it as they looked to the world outside.The words are a powerful statement \u2013 and in this context a complete and provocative perversion of any notion of justice. They are the German translation of the Roman law maxim Suum cuique, incorporated not just into German law but legal systems across Europe. They are the title of a Bach cantata performed in Weimar, the city of Goethe and Schiller, just 10 miles from Buchenwald. And this gate, so close to\u00a0Weimar, raises the unanswerable question of modern German history: how can these different components of\u00a0the German story fit together? How could all these humane traditions of justice and scholarship, music and law \u2013 of a civilised society \u2013 all collapse in the Nazi abyss?The Nazi authorities conscripted one of the inmates of the camp to design the words. Franz Ehrlich had been interned as a communist on trumped-up charges of treason. He had trained at the Bauhaus, the famous school of design, also in nearby Weimar, which was loathed by the Nazis for its internationalism and modernism. Ehrlich nonetheless used a beautiful Bauhaus typeface of the sort that the Nazis categorically disapproved of. Astonishingly, they didn't seem to notice. It is impossible not to read the sign as a quiet, profound protest. Ehrlich was compelled to design this hateful, callous motto, but he did it in a way that showed that another Germany, a humane, international Germany, survived. These shocking words in that typeface suggest that people, even in terrible circumstance, may sometimes find a way of asserting dignity.'The rubble women'WG Sebald has written about the striking gap in German public and literary discourse about what the allied bombings did to the civilian population. There is probably more debate about the fire-bombing of Dresden in this country than in Germany. Sebald suggests this may be because the bombing was seen as deserved retribution and therefore the victims were not entitled to talk about their suffering. But the memory of the bombings and the losses is strong, and Dresden is a very particular case and memory. The same Augustus of the porcelain rhinoceros also built the beautiful 18th-century city and filled it with supreme art treasures . Then, on the 12th and 13th ofFebruary 1945, the city was, reduced to rubble by British and American bombers. Later In July and August that year the Soviets removed the entire art collection. Every part of Dresden's identity had been lost. But how did you start clearing up the colossal mess? All able-bodied women \u2013 there were few men \u2013 were conscripted to clear the rubble, mostly with their bare hands. And with astonishing speed the Tr\u00fcmmerfrauen (the rubble women) made Dresden, and Germany, habitable again by clearing away not only the destroyed buildings, but also the thousands of bodies that had been incinerated within them.The sculptor Max Lachnit, who worked in Dresden, lost all his work in the air raid. He made this little statue of one of the Tr\u00fcmmerfrau from bits of coloured stone he found in the ruins. She is young, looking steadfastly forward, totally impassive. We have no idea who she is \u2013 she stands for thousands. It is not a\u00a0great work of art, but it encapsulates one of the deep memories of many Germans, of the endless rubble, of the late 1940s, and of the huge army of women who cleared it. Only then could the reconstruction of the cities, and the economy, begin.'The quest for resolution and reconciliation'The biography of Ernst Barlach's sculpture is the biography of Germany in the 20th century. Barlach had joined up for the first world war as a committed patriot who wanted to fight. His experience of the trenches had made him a\u00a0pacifist. He built this memorial to\u00a0those killed in the war and to remember those who remained \u2013 using the face of\u00a0his friend the artist K\u00e4the Kollwitz \u2013 for the Protestant cathedral of G\u00fcstrow, a small town just over 100 miles to the north of Berlin. His Hovering Angel, suspended from the ceiling \u2013 so elevating individual grief into general mourning \u2013 is an evocation of a mother looking west, to\u00a0the killing fields of Flanders, grieving serenely, perpetually, for her dead\u00a0son. It is about reflecting on responsibility for the war, and sorrow for its consequences.Of course, the Nazis hated its pacifism. Eventually they took it away and melted down the bronze to use as material for the next war. After it was removed from the cathedral in 1938, Barlach's friends, assisted by a dealer who had suspiciously good relations with the authorities, located the original plaster mould and made a\u00a0second bronze, which was buried for\u00a0safe-keeping. When that emerged after\u00a0the war, it was in the west, and the angel's previous home G\u00fcstrow, a small town just over 100 miles to the north of Berlin was in the east. So the second bronze went to the Antonite Church in Cologne. There, on\u00a0the slab in the floor below it, they added to the dates 1914\u20131918, the years 1933-1945. The strength of the Angel's symbolic power, they believed, was able to carry not just the sorrow of the\u00a0first war, but\u00a0the added burden of\u00a0the further millions of losses and deaths of\u00a0the entire Nazi period.In the early 50s, against the backdrop of the cold war, another cast of\u00a0the version in Cologne was made, and\u00a0sent to G\u00fcstrow, as an act of reconciliation and friendship. So another layer of meaning was added to\u00a0Barlach's image. When in 1981 West German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt made an official visit to East Germany, he stood beneath the angel in G\u00fcstrow with GDR leader, Erich Honecker and talked of what the two German states might share. When we asked to\u00a0borrow it for the British Museum exhibition, the congregation of G\u00fcstrow Cathedral had to\u00a0give their agreement. After much reflection they eventually decided that the purpose of\u00a0the object was to promote healing and reconciliation, and that, 100 years after 1914, reconciliation was still needed between Britain and Germany. So it will come to\u00a0London. In\u00a0the exhibition here, this third version of Barlach's Angel will embody the war fever of 1914; pacifism in the 1920s; the\u00a0humane art of K\u00e4the Kollwitz; the destruction of \"degenerate art\" by the\u00a0Nazis; the western front in the first world war and the bombing of Berlin in\u00a0the second; the postwar division of Germany and the dialogues that were possible in spite of it; the millions of victims of 20th-century conflicts; the continuing painful and difficult conversations between Germany and the rest of the world in the quest for resolution and reconciliation; and unquenchable hope.I can't think of any other exhibit that\u00a0has such profound resonance. I\u00a0hope people will respond to the generosity and earnestness of the people of G\u00fcstrow, who, by allowing it\u00a0to come to London, have added yet\u00a0another new dimension to this remarkable sculpture.\u2022 Germany: Memories of a Nation is on BBC Radio 4, Monday to Friday at 9.45am, for six weeks from 29\u00a0September. The\u00a0exhibition opens at the British Museum on 16 October, britishmuseum.org. Germany:\u00a0Memories of a Nation by Neil MacGregor is published by Allen Lane on 6 November (\u00a325).", "tags": ["Society", "History", "Books", "Art and design", "Exhibitions", "Radio 4", "Radio", "Television & radio", "Museums", "Culture", "Berlin Wall", "Germany", "World news"], "title": "Ten objects that made modern Germany"},{"date": "2014-09-11T05:30:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "In November 1989, three days before the fall of the Berlin Wall, East German television screened a documentary called Ist Leipzig noch zu retten (Is there hope for Leipzig?). The revelations were explosive: contrary to what the GDR regime had been claiming, the film showed Saxony\u2019s largest city crumbling to pieces. Saving it would require so much time and money, some of the architects interviewed reckoned, that it would make be more sense to flatten the historic quarters altogether.Twenty-five years later, the people of Leipzig have different concerns. Gushing reports of the city\u2019s thriving creative scene, green spaces and quality of living have earned the place the nickname Hypezig, and some locals fear its reputation as \u201cthe better Berlin\u201d may attract private investors, and drive up property prices.Plagwitz, the western district whose housing stock was so bad in 1989 that Leipzig\u2019s chief architect said \u201cit would be irresponsible to have people continue to live here\u201d, illustrates the city\u2019s transformation. Once a soot-covered industrial suburb dotted with the chimneys of metalwork shops, it has cleaned up its act but not lost its crooked charm. Buildings on the main thoroughfare, Karl-Heine-Strasse \u2013 it\u2019s named after the 19th-century industrialist who put the district on the map \u2013 have almost all been renovated, but without losing their sense of history. Some of them may now house galleries and ice-cream parlours that sell strawberry and lavender sorbet, but family businesses such as Schicketanz butchers and Seidel\u2019s bakery will keep the area grounded. At Meins bar and cafe, a student favourite, they cook old-fashioned family recipes such as eggs in mustard sauce, and invite guests request their favourite \u201cgranny food\u201d.As part of a project started in 2006, houses on Karl-Heine Strasse have been fitted with neon signs spelling out abstract qualities associated with what takes place inside \u2013 \u201ccomfort\u201d, \u201ceffort\u201d, \u201clust\u201d, and so on. To find out more, try a three-hour walking tour with Ina Thyrolf of Eat The World that dives deep into the area\u2019s cultural and culinary secrets.Plagwitz\u2019s charm is different from Berlin\u2019s, where the numerous side-street cafes can lend the capital a sleepy, villagey feel. Leipzig, though smaller, feels busier: social life takes place along the city\u2019s main arteries. Its art scene, too, is more focused, more work-orientated, with an aesthetic \u2013 socialist realism meets pop art \u2013 which feels like it belongs nowhere else.The Baumwollspinnerei on Spinnereistrasse off the western end of Karl-Heine Strasse is a former cotton mill now home to over 120 artists\u2019 studios and the engine of Plagwitz\u2019s revival: walking along its cobbled streets on a balmy late summer afternoon, one sees surprisingly few artists basking in the sunshine. Most of them are in their studios, getting work done.On Fridays and Saturdays, you can take a guided tour of the studios (\u20ac10pp, non-German speakers should call in advance), and even stay in some of the studios \u2013 at \u20ac65-\u20ac85 a night, they are cheaper than hotels in the area. Next year, as Leipzig celebrates its 1,000th birthday, the Spinnerei also celebrates the tenth anniversary of its Rundg\u00e4nge, the open days held in January, May and September.The artists, such as Maria and Vlado Ondrej, accept that Plagwitz is no longer a secret. After all, they need people to buy their work, say the couple, who have been making prints in the Spinnerei since 1993. \u201cIf we want to get on with our work we just close our doors\u201d, says Vlado. \u201cThe good thing about working in a factory is that the doors are really solid.\u201d", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Cultural trips", "Short breaks"], "title": "Germany: Is Leipzig the new Berlin?"},{"date": "2014-09-30T13:57:30Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Online electrical appliance retailer AO World is taking its first step overseas with the launch of a website in Germany.The site, which was promised at the time of AO\u2019s stock market flotation in February is launching six months ahead of schedule on 14 October. The company has set up a German warehouse, head office and delivery network in a bid to replicate its UK operation in offering low prices and speedy delivery.John Roberts, founder and chief executive of AO said: \u201cGermany is our stepping stone to realising our ambition to become the leading online retailer in our categories.\u201dAO said the early launch of its German site would bring forward some costs but it was trading well in the UK. It said it was continuing to gain market share and was on track to meet full year profit expectations.Analysts welcomed the reassurance about trading, but shares in AO remain well below the 285p flotation price at 194p. The company has been hit by worries that online retailers are looking over-valued amid difficulties for online fashion retailer Asos as it attempts to expand overseas.", "tags": ["AO World", "Retail industry", "Business", "Germany"], "title": "AO World to launch in Germany"},{"date": "2014-09-28T08:00:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "In his new Radio 4 series, Neil MacGregor will tell the history of Germany with a series of objects chosen from his new exhibition, Germany: Memories of a Nation, which opens at the British Museum on 16 October. We\u2019ve chosen five modern German objects that are unlikely to have made the cut.Fizzy and highly caffeinated, this beverage brewed in the Bavarian village of M\u00fcnchsteinach is the ambrosia of urbanised 21st-century Germans. Colloquially known as Hackerbrause, it enjoys a particularly cult status in Berlin\u2019s burgeoninghacking and digital startup scene, and played a crucial part in ensuring that Edward Snowden\u2019s revelations about NSA surveillance were met with more energised outrage in Germany than anywhere else.Demographics show that Germans are increasingly deserting the countryside and heading for the cities. Yet they can\u2019t stop fantasising about forests and freshly cut hay: Landlust, a rustic lifestyle bimonthly launched in 2005, sells over a million copies, more than the news weekly Der Spiegel. It could be the ultimate expression of a modern German obsession with Entschleunigung (slowing): the desire to take our stressful, work-focused lifestyles down a notch.Modern Germany is cautious about military interventions, having taken a stance against the war in Iraq in 2002 and air strikes in Libya in 2011. But it is also the world\u2019s third-largest arms exporter. Engineered and manufactured by a family-run business in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg, Heckler & Koch\u2019s submachine guns are a classic product of Germany\u2019s export-focused Mittelstand (small and medium sized companies). Campaigners estimate they kill an average of 114 people a year. Osama bin Laden was probably shot with an upgraded version of their MP7A1 assault rifle.For many Germans, the national colours are still more likely to cause discomfort rather than pride \u2013 unless there\u2019s an international football tournament taking place somewhere in the world. Ever since the 2006 World Cup, ritualised displays of \u201cparty patriotism\u201d have become an unshakable habit. Wing-mirror covers in black, red and gold are particularly popular: they are both more discreetly patriotic and considerably more aerodynamic than a large flag.Testimony to changing culinary habits, the influence of German-Turkish multiculturalism and the enduring appeal of German precision engineering, Alkadur RobotSystem is a rotating grill that shaves off its own slabs of kebab meat. The machine gained cult status when its inventor, Duran Kabakyer, made a grammatical boob on a talkshow by getting his articles mixed up and describing his creation as der Ger\u00e4t (the unit) as opposed to das Ger\u00e4t (the device).A popular rap song ponders whether the tireless, ever-efficient Alkadur will end up putting the entire nation out of work.", "tags": ["Germany", "Museums", "Radio 4", "BBC", "Europe", "Culture"], "title": "Five objects that make modern Germany"},{"date": "2014-09-26T13:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It is 25 years since the Berlin Wall fell and a new Germany was born.\u00a0In the last quarter of a\u00a0century the country has seen an\u00a0unprecedented opening up of\u00a0archives and a\u00a0programme of national education and much public debate about the different inheritances of East and West Germany. There has also been an unprecedented building of monuments marking the horrors of\u00a0the recent past. But what are the memories that German citizens bring to their new state? What, in short, does the world look like if you are German?At the forefront of that memory is the Third Reich and the Holocaust.But there is more than that, and one\u00a0of the ways that German history is\u00a0not like other European histories is that Germans consciously use it as\u00a0a\u00a0warning to act differently in the future. As the historian Michael St\u00fcrmer says, \"for a\u00a0long time in Germany, history was what must not be allowed to happen again\". This is very different from Britain or France, where most public engagement with history, in terms of\u00a0monuments and memorials, is to honour valour and heroism, with little public recognition of\u00a0any wrongdoing, or of follies that might have led to the wars in which the\u00a0valour had to be demonstrated. What is striking about German war memorials is that they look forward not back \u2013 a characteristic clearly visible in their parliament building.The historic Reichstag was burnt out\u00a0in 1933, with the fire blamed on the\u00a0communists and used to advantage by\u00a0the Nazis. During the war it was badly damaged, then occupied by the\u00a0Russians. After reunification the decision was made to restore it, but the\u00a0marks of the 1933 fire, as well as graffiti made by Soviet soldiers, were left untouched, as a reminder to legislators that if you get things as wrong as\u00a0Germany did then the consequences are unimaginably terrible. An MP travelling to the Reichstag today will pass not only the Holocaust memorial but also memorials to the killing of homosexuals, disabled people and Roma. When they get to the building, they find it topped by a huge glass dome, to which the public have access. So not only do you have an emblem of a transparent legislature, but the public can literally exercise oversight over their government \u2013 a direct reversal of\u00a0the situation under both the Nazis and the Stasi.In effect the building is a meditation on different aspects of history. I can't think of another country in the world that lives so closely with the acutely uncomfortable reminders of its past in\u00a0order to help it act more wisely in\u00a0future.In making our radio series, British Museum exhibition and book we have tried to look at objects that evoke memories of which pretty well all Germans can say \"this is\u00a0part of me\". Some are obvious, such as the Gutenberg Bible. Every German knows that Germany invented printing and, in\u00a0that sense, made the modern world. But we have also tried to focus on elements that the British public might not be so familiar with, as well as\u00a0areas of German history about which there is\u00a0still a reticence in Germany. People talk about the Holocaust very honestly and fully, but subjects such as\u00a0the huge\u00a0civilian losses from allied bombing raids are little discussed, unlike in this country. Yet\u00a0it\u00a0remains a\u00a0potent memory.It has always been the British Museum's job to present the history we\u00a0need in order to make sense of now.\u00a0Germany is the European state we\u00a0most need to understand if we are going to comprehend both Europe, and\u00a0the world.'An instrument of state surveillance'The official account of oppression in East Germany does exist in the state archives, but it is written in such a deliberately bland and concealing way as to give very little impression of what actually happened. This cheaply made blue wetsuit with white zips, probably worn only once, tells you far more. Breaching the Berlin Wall wasn't the only route to the west. A hundred miles north was another favoured crossing point, if\u00a0you were willing to sail across the Baltic in a rubber dinghy, as the owner of the wetsuit had intended to\u00a0in November 1987 \u2013 despite the likeliest outcome being either dying of hypothermia or being shot. In this instance, the man was arrested before he even set off, but the fact was that people were still willing to risk their lives just two years before the Berlin Wall came down. Equally revealing is what happened after the\u00a0man was sent to prison and the wet\u00a0suit was confiscated by the Stasi. They used it as a training prop to instruct their informants as to what sort of products they should watch out for. Why would anyone need a\u00a0wetsuit, or plastics or rubber that could be made into a wetsuit, or a\u00a0dinghy, or anything that could be turned into a flying machine, or used as tunnelling equipment? And so on. If you saw your neighbours buying, or\u00a0possessing these things, you were to let the Stasi know. So the wetsuit is\u00a0not only evidence of one citizen wanting to flee, it also became an symbol of state surveillance, designed to prevent others from trying to escape.One of the most remarkable things to come out of opening the Stasi archives was evidence of the extent of this surveillance. It is reckoned that one in three of the population of the GDR was at some time, in some way, informing on their\u00a0friends, neighbours or families. The memory of that has had profound implications for the new German state. If you walk round Berlin today you will see \u2013 in stark contrast to Britain \u2013 almost no CCTV cameras. Edward Snowden's revelations of state surveillance made him, again in\u00a0contrast to the UK, something of a\u00a0national hero in Germany, with effigies of him paraded in the streets\u00a0during Mardi Gras carnival processions. Germany's assiduous public study of its uncomfortable modern history has ensured that every adult knows what happened under both the Nazis and the Stasi. They know these things were done by\u00a0the state in the name of the people. This wetsuit is a reminder of\u00a0what can happen if the citizen fails to keep the state under control.'A citizen of the world'We tend to think that all the great writers are somehow the same: Dante, Shakespeare, Cervantes. But Goethe is different. Of course, he is the great writer that every German schoolchild learns and reads as we do Shakespeare, but more than that he represents a\u00a0German belief in openness to the world. The 1787 Tischbein portrait is the most famous portrait in the whole of Germany. It shows Goethe in Italy. He had just become a European celebrity after the publication of The\u00a0Sorrows of Young Werther (the Clockwork Orange of the 18th century), and he was the first to make German a\u00a0literary language read by foreigners. There is a wonderful German word \u2013 Weltb\u00fcrger \u2013 a citizen of\u00a0the world. That is how Goethe is shown here. Engaged with, appropriating and interpreting the whole world, he makes clear that you need to know about Britain and France, about Greece and Rome \u2013 you cannot have a culture that is only German. He also, strikingly, engaged with Islam in a way that is a\u00a0significant part of the contemporary debate about how Germany should respond to its Muslim population.Understandably, the Nazis were ambivalent about him. He was, of course, a hero, but they didn't like the\u00a0indecisiveness of his protagonists (most of his heroes can't make up their minds), and, above all, they didn't like his willingness to look for models of behaviour outside Germany.'A memory of their local sausage'De Gaulle once complained about how difficult it was to govern a country with\u00a0246 different cheeses. He did not know how lucky he was. Germany has more than four times as many types of\u00a0sausage. What those sausages tell you is that the regional identity of Germany is still flourishing in a way that has probably never been the case in England, where there has been a\u00a0centralised government in a dominant London for 1,000 years. Because of Germany's political fragmentation until 1870, and the deep differences in\u00a0dialect and local history, there is a\u00a0lively regional variety in Germany, expressed gastronomically through wine, beer and sausages, and politically through the L\u00e4nder system. Each Land, or state has its own two-house parliament. Hamburg, for example, has survived unbroken as a city state since the early Middle Ages.One of the big questions for a\u00a0country that has never had fixed frontiers at its edges, and contains an\u00a0extraordinary range of diversity, is:\u00a0what does it share? Language, beer and sausages are among the shared things, and all have pronounced local flavours. Even today you can tell where\u00a0you are in Germany by what kind of sausage you are offered and the\u00a0way people \u2013 of every class \u2013 pronounce their German. Pretty well all Germans\u00a0carry both a local accent, and\u00a0a memory of their local sausage.'National artist of Germany'Within a generation of the invention of printing, the Germans had done everything you can do with print; books, broadsheets, pamphlets and images. The great concentration of autonomous cities linked by rivers in south\u00a0Germany provided the ideal communications and distribution network for a large, literate and prosperous population. Albrecht D\u00fcrer, working in one of the great trading centres, Nuremberg, realised that as a maker of prints he could sell his art across the whole of the\u00a0continent, and, just as Goethe was the first German writer to be read across Europe, D\u00fcrer was the first major artist anywhere to make his work for a pan-European market. To protect his continent-wide success, he invented his own logo, in\u00a0the form of the famous AD (which he later successfully defended in Venice). His work\u00a0is\u00a0familiar to every German, in particular his two great engravings, Knight, Death and the Devil, and Melancholia, which were long taken as\u00a0two aspects of one national self-portrait: the knight riding bravely out to do what must be done; the figure of creative genius slumped on the floor, aware of so many creative possibilities that he is unable to act at all. The different sides of the German spirit.D\u00fcrer is a national artist of Germany in a different way from Turner or Constable in Britain, who explore landscape. D\u00fcrer, working in the early 16th century, is focused on character; you may explore your own \u2013 and Germany's \u2013 experiences in the light of\u00a0his images.'The celebrated porcelain menagerie'All Germans know their country is one of the great centres of technological innovation. And one of the great technological breakthroughs ever was made by Johann B\u00f6ttger, a man who was something between an alchemist and a chemist working in Dresden in around 1710. He was the first European to discover how to make porcelain. At\u00a0the time, Chinese porcelain was one\u00a0of the most precious things in Europe, but nobody in the west knew what it\u00a0was made of. After a long process of\u00a0trial and error, B\u00f6ttger worked it out.\u00a0The result was that his\u00a0patron, Augustus the Strong, ruler of\u00a0Saxony, now had something that no\u00a0other European head of state had, or\u00a0could give as a present to potential allies. For\u00a0a few decades Dresden porcelain was Saxony's equivalent of\u00a0panda diplomacy.The Chinese had used porcelain in\u00a0quite limited ways, for vessels and dishes. Dresden flamboyantly made sculptures, especially of animals, demonstrating total mastery of a\u00a0very\u00a0difficult medium and technique. In\u00a0the\u00a0celebrated porcelain menagerie in\u00a0the royal palace, the figures of the\u00a0hen, fox, peacock etc were modelled on real animals. But for the\u00a0rhinoceros the craftsmen went to\u00a0D\u00fcrer, who had\u00a0never seen a rhinoceros, but nonetheless produced a\u00a0print based on\u00a0reports sent from Lisbon. By\u00a0the early 1700s, real rhinoceroses had been\u00a0seen, but, like many Germans\u00a0before and since, they preferred to see the world through D\u00fcrer's eyes. The Dresden porcelain rhinoceros, with its pugnacious charm\u00a0and its anatomical oddities, is\u00a0completely unforgettable.After the second world war, Meissen found itself in the Soviet zone,\u00a0but the Russians kept the industry going, and so\u00a0the factory set up by Augustus the Strong received commissions to make official portraits of the\u00a0leaders of the communist East German state. You can't be a\u00a0ruler of Germany, control Dresden, and not mind about\u00a0porcelain.'Supremacy in precision engineering in metal'The Germans are masters of metal. In the Saarland and the Ruhr there is\u00a0a metallurgic tradition that goes back thousands of years, and the country has long defined itself through high-end metal engineering in every field. By 1500, precision instrument making was dominated by south Germany and that is where buyers still go today. Gutenberg could\u00a0make movable type only because there were people nearby who knew how to manufacture hundreds of identical pieces of metal. Shakespeare talks about expensive German clocks. Despite what Harry Lime, the third man, said, it was Germany not Switzerland that almost certainly invented the cuckoo clock.Unsurprisingly, the Germans were\u00a0also the first people to dominate the\u00a0top end of the car market with Daimler-Benz and Mercedes. But one\u00a0of the extraordinary developments of\u00a0the 1930s was that Hitler decided he wanted Germany to be like the US\u00a0and produce cars for everybody. The\u00a0Volkswagen was an\u00a0attempt to do\u00a0something odd in German history, produce a low-cost,\u00a0mass-market engineering product. But it was not an economic proposition, war was approaching, metal was needed for other things, and production was stopped.After the war the British took over the plant, but no British car manufacturer liked the design and so the\u00a0Germans resumed ownership. Reverting to their high-skill traditions, they then turned what had\u00a0been meant to be a cheap mass\u2011market car into something of\u00a0extremely high quality, but with\u00a0as low a price as possible. The\u00a0Volkswagen became the emblem of\u00a0both the long German tradition of\u00a0supremacy in precision engineering in metal, and also of the postwar economic miracle of the Federal Republic.'The grief of the survivor' In Britain, France and elsewhere, most war memorials are designed to honour the dead. What is striking in Germany is the focus on those who are\u00a0left; monuments that depict the\u00a0grief of the survivor. And in the 20th century, with its many catastrophic killings, there have been many grieving survivors. K\u00e4the Kollwitz explored all through her life how the image of one mother's pain can carry the sorrow of a\u00a0continent.Kollwitz was a mother whose son had died in October 1914. Peter had been too young to join up for the first world war and needed his father's approval. The father was reluctant, but Kollwitz persuaded her husband to let the boy go. He was killed 10 days later. So she had not only a profound sense of loss, but also of guilt and responsibility. When she was asked to provide the memorial at the cemetery where her son was buried, she turned that mix of emotions into an exploration of the cosmic tragedy of the first world war. She made a simple image of two parents, on their knees, separate, isolated in their own grief, looking over the cemetery full of the young dead. There is no image of the son.In 1937, Kollwitz was still working through the sorrow of 1914 and on the anniversary of her son's death that year she wrote in her diary about making a small sculpture that has \"become something like a Piet\u00e0 [a depiction of Mary with the dead Christ]\". But she had moved far away from any Christian tradition or convention and found a powerful way of articulating the desolation of those who are left. Nothing in this later sculpture suggests sacrifice to achieve a higher purpose. There is no hint of\u00a0salvation, merely a silent response to\u00a0slaughter.After the reunification of Germany in 1990, Chancellor Helmut Kohl proposed a National Monument to all Victims of War and Tyranny in the Neue Wache in Berlin. The image he chose was an enlarged version of that sculpture created in 1937 by Kollwitz, herself both witness and victim. It was a striking, brilliant insight on the part of Kohl to see the analogy between Kollwitz's mother protecting her child, and the state's recognition of its duty to defend all those over whom it has power \u2013 and in either case, the terrible cost of failure.'A quiet, profound protest'All the concentration camps had slogans on their gates. Often it was Arbeit Macht Frei (Work makes you free). However, in Buchenwald, a\u00a0labour (not a death) camp \u2013 although many thousands of people were worked to death or deliberately killed there \u2013 the Nazis chose the motto Jedem Das Seine (To Each What They\u00a0Are Due). It was placed on the inside of the gate rather than the outside, so that every prisoner was reminded of it as they looked to the world outside.The words are a powerful statement \u2013 and in this context a complete and provocative perversion of any notion of justice. They are the German translation of the Roman law maxim Suum cuique, incorporated not just into German law but legal systems across Europe. They are the title of a Bach cantata performed in Weimar, the city of Goethe and Schiller, just 10 miles from Buchenwald. And this gate, so close to\u00a0Weimar, raises the unanswerable question of modern German history: how can these different components of\u00a0the German story fit together? How could all these humane traditions of justice and scholarship, music and law \u2013 of a civilised society \u2013 all collapse in the Nazi abyss?The Nazi authorities conscripted one of the inmates of the camp to design the words. Franz Ehrlich had been interned as a communist on trumped-up charges of treason. He had trained at the Bauhaus, the famous school of design, also in nearby Weimar, which was loathed by the Nazis for its internationalism and modernism. Ehrlich nonetheless used a beautiful Bauhaus typeface of the sort that the Nazis categorically disapproved of. Astonishingly, they didn't seem to notice. It is impossible not to read the sign as a quiet, profound protest. Ehrlich was compelled to design this hateful, callous motto, but he did it in a way that showed that another Germany, a humane, international Germany, survived. These shocking words in that typeface suggest that people, even in terrible circumstance, may sometimes find a way of asserting dignity.'The rubble women'WG Sebald has written about the striking gap in German public and literary discourse about what the allied bombings did to the civilian population. There is probably more debate about the fire-bombing of Dresden in this country than in Germany. Sebald suggests this may be because the bombing was seen as deserved retribution and therefore the victims were not entitled to talk about their suffering. But the memory of the bombings and the losses is strong, and Dresden is a very particular case and memory. The same Augustus of the porcelain rhinoceros also built the beautiful 18th-century city and filled it with supreme art treasures . Then, on the 12th and 13th ofFebruary 1945, the city was, reduced to rubble by British and American bombers. Later In July and August that year the Soviets removed the entire art collection. Every part of Dresden's identity had been lost. But how did you start clearing up the colossal mess? All able-bodied women \u2013 there were few men \u2013 were conscripted to clear the rubble, mostly with their bare hands. And with astonishing speed the Tr\u00fcmmerfrauen (the rubble women) made Dresden, and Germany, habitable again by clearing away not only the destroyed buildings, but also the thousands of bodies that had been incinerated within them.The sculptor Max Lachnit, who worked in Dresden, lost all his work in the air raid. He made this little statue of one of the Tr\u00fcmmerfrau from bits of coloured stone he found in the ruins. She is young, looking steadfastly forward, totally impassive. We have no idea who she is \u2013 she stands for thousands. It is not a\u00a0great work of art, but it encapsulates one of the deep memories of many Germans, of the endless rubble, of the late 1940s, and of the huge army of women who cleared it. Only then could the reconstruction of the cities, and the economy, begin.'The quest for resolution and reconciliation'The biography of Ernst Barlach's sculpture is the biography of Germany in the 20th century. Barlach had joined up for the first world war as a committed patriot who wanted to fight. His experience of the trenches had made him a\u00a0pacifist. He built this memorial to\u00a0those killed in the war and to remember those who remained \u2013 using the face of\u00a0his friend the artist K\u00e4the Kollwitz \u2013 for the Protestant cathedral of G\u00fcstrow, a small town just over 100 miles to the north of Berlin. His Hovering Angel, suspended from the ceiling \u2013 so elevating individual grief into general mourning \u2013 is an evocation of a mother looking west, to\u00a0the killing fields of Flanders, grieving serenely, perpetually, for her dead\u00a0son. It is about reflecting on responsibility for the war, and sorrow for its consequences.Of course, the Nazis hated its pacifism. Eventually they took it away and melted down the bronze to use as material for the next war. After it was removed from the cathedral in 1938, Barlach's friends, assisted by a dealer who had suspiciously good relations with the authorities, located the original plaster mould and made a\u00a0second bronze, which was buried for\u00a0safe-keeping. When that emerged after\u00a0the war, it was in the west, and the angel's previous home G\u00fcstrow, a small town just over 100 miles to the north of Berlin was in the east. So the second bronze went to the Antonite Church in Cologne. There, on\u00a0the slab in the floor below it, they added to the dates 1914\u20131918, the years 1933-1945. The strength of the Angel's symbolic power, they believed, was able to carry not just the sorrow of the\u00a0first war, but\u00a0the added burden of\u00a0the further millions of losses and deaths of\u00a0the entire Nazi period.In the early 50s, against the backdrop of the cold war, another cast of\u00a0the version in Cologne was made, and\u00a0sent to G\u00fcstrow, as an act of reconciliation and friendship. So another layer of meaning was added to\u00a0Barlach's image. When in 1981 West German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt made an official visit to East Germany, he stood beneath the angel in G\u00fcstrow with GDR leader, Erich Honecker and talked of what the two German states might share. When we asked to\u00a0borrow it for the British Museum exhibition, the congregation of G\u00fcstrow Cathedral had to\u00a0give their agreement. After much reflection they eventually decided that the purpose of\u00a0the object was to promote healing and reconciliation, and that, 100 years after 1914, reconciliation was still needed between Britain and Germany. So it will come to\u00a0London. In\u00a0the exhibition here, this third version of Barlach's Angel will embody the war fever of 1914; pacifism in the 1920s; the\u00a0humane art of K\u00e4the Kollwitz; the destruction of \"degenerate art\" by the\u00a0Nazis; the western front in the first world war and the bombing of Berlin in\u00a0the second; the postwar division of Germany and the dialogues that were possible in spite of it; the millions of victims of 20th-century conflicts; the continuing painful and difficult conversations between Germany and the rest of the world in the quest for resolution and reconciliation; and unquenchable hope.I can't think of any other exhibit that\u00a0has such profound resonance. I\u00a0hope people will respond to the generosity and earnestness of the people of G\u00fcstrow, who, by allowing it\u00a0to come to London, have added yet\u00a0another new dimension to this remarkable sculpture.\u2022 Germany: Memories of a Nation is on BBC Radio 4, Monday to Friday at 9.45am, for six weeks from 29\u00a0September. The\u00a0exhibition opens at the British Museum on 16 October, britishmuseum.org. Germany:\u00a0Memories of a Nation by Neil MacGregor is published by Allen Lane on 6 November (\u00a325).", "tags": ["Society", "History", "Books", "Art and design", "Exhibitions", "Radio 4", "Radio", "Television & radio", "Museums", "Culture", "Berlin Wall", "Germany", "World news"], "title": "Ten objects that made modern Germany"},{"date": "2014-09-11T05:30:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "In November 1989, three days before the fall of the Berlin Wall, East German television screened a documentary called Ist Leipzig noch zu retten (Is there hope for Leipzig?). The revelations were explosive: contrary to what the GDR regime had been claiming, the film showed Saxony\u2019s largest city crumbling to pieces. Saving it would require so much time and money, some of the architects interviewed reckoned, that it would make be more sense to flatten the historic quarters altogether.Twenty-five years later, the people of Leipzig have different concerns. Gushing reports of the city\u2019s thriving creative scene, green spaces and quality of living have earned the place the nickname Hypezig, and some locals fear its reputation as \u201cthe better Berlin\u201d may attract private investors, and drive up property prices.Plagwitz, the western district whose housing stock was so bad in 1989 that Leipzig\u2019s chief architect said \u201cit would be irresponsible to have people continue to live here\u201d, illustrates the city\u2019s transformation. Once a soot-covered industrial suburb dotted with the chimneys of metalwork shops, it has cleaned up its act but not lost its crooked charm. Buildings on the main thoroughfare, Karl-Heine-Strasse \u2013 it\u2019s named after the 19th-century industrialist who put the district on the map \u2013 have almost all been renovated, but without losing their sense of history. Some of them may now house galleries and ice-cream parlours that sell strawberry and lavender sorbet, but family businesses such as Schicketanz butchers and Seidel\u2019s bakery will keep the area grounded. At Meins bar and cafe, a student favourite, they cook old-fashioned family recipes such as eggs in mustard sauce, and invite guests request their favourite \u201cgranny food\u201d.As part of a project started in 2006, houses on Karl-Heine Strasse have been fitted with neon signs spelling out abstract qualities associated with what takes place inside \u2013 \u201ccomfort\u201d, \u201ceffort\u201d, \u201clust\u201d, and so on. To find out more, try a three-hour walking tour with Ina Thyrolf of Eat The World that dives deep into the area\u2019s cultural and culinary secrets.Plagwitz\u2019s charm is different from Berlin\u2019s, where the numerous side-street cafes can lend the capital a sleepy, villagey feel. Leipzig, though smaller, feels busier: social life takes place along the city\u2019s main arteries. Its art scene, too, is more focused, more work-orientated, with an aesthetic \u2013 socialist realism meets pop art \u2013 which feels like it belongs nowhere else.The Baumwollspinnerei on Spinnereistrasse off the western end of Karl-Heine Strasse is a former cotton mill now home to over 120 artists\u2019 studios and the engine of Plagwitz\u2019s revival: walking along its cobbled streets on a balmy late summer afternoon, one sees surprisingly few artists basking in the sunshine. Most of them are in their studios, getting work done.On Fridays and Saturdays, you can take a guided tour of the studios (\u20ac10pp, non-German speakers should call in advance), and even stay in some of the studios \u2013 at \u20ac65-\u20ac85 a night, they are cheaper than hotels in the area. Next year, as Leipzig celebrates its 1,000th birthday, the Spinnerei also celebrates the tenth anniversary of its Rundg\u00e4nge, the open days held in January, May and September.The artists, such as Maria and Vlado Ondrej, accept that Plagwitz is no longer a secret. After all, they need people to buy their work, say the couple, who have been making prints in the Spinnerei since 1993. \u201cIf we want to get on with our work we just close our doors\u201d, says Vlado. \u201cThe good thing about working in a factory is that the doors are really solid.\u201d", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Cultural trips", "Short breaks"], "title": "Germany: Is Leipzig the new Berlin?"},{"date": "2014-09-02T12:13:47Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The online car-sharing service Uber has vowed to continue operating across Germany after its mobile app was banned by a Frankfurt regional court.The ruling that the app violates the country's Passenger Transportation Act applies nationwide, according to legal experts. The temporary ban remains in place until a full hearing takes place, and Uber could face a \u20ac250,000 (\u00a3198,000) fine per ride.But Uber vowed to keep the app online regardless. \"You cannot put the brakes on progress,\" the company said. \"Uber will continue its operations and will offer Uberpop ride-sharing services via its app throughout Germany.\" It promised to appeal against the decision and would, if necessary, \"exhaust all the legal possibilities\".The case against Uber was brought by the Taxi Deutschland Servicegesellschaft company, which offers a rival app that links users to registered taxi drivers. The company argued that Uber was not operating a legitimate service because its drivers did not have the correct permits, were not properly insured, and were not subject to checks. German law allows drivers without a commercial licence to pick up passengers only if they charge no more than the operating cost of the trip.\"We are very happy with the decision,\" TDS spokeswoman Anja Floetenmeyer said. \"The law says there are safety regulations for drivers and safety regulations for users, and these also apply to neo-liberal firms like Uber.\"Describing the sharing economy as a \"locust\", TDS chairman Dieter Schlenker said: \"Uber operates with billions in cash from Goldman Sachs and Google, wraps itself in a start-up look and sells itself as a new economy saviour.\"Floetenmeyer said that since Uber was choosing to ignore the ban, TDS would now formally ask the court to enforce the relevant fines. \"If you get into a car, you are legally in the hands of the driver with your life and your personal health and safety,\" she said. \"And the driver has to play by the German rules.\"Floetenmeyer also warned that the next step would be to impose additional fines on drivers using the Uber app. The five-year-old San Francisco-based company, recently valued at $18bn (\u00a310.9bn), has faced determined opposition from taxi operators in cities across the world, with thousands of drivers in June bringing traffic almost to a standstill in London, Paris and Madrid, among other places.The latest court decision further raises the stakes for Uber in Germany, where it has had to fend off legal challenges for months in Berlin and Hamburg on issues ranging from licensing to whether its drivers are fully insured to carry passengers.Uber has pursued an aggressive business strategy in the country, expanding rapidly and defying a number of attempts by local authorities to ban it. The app is available in Berlin, Munich, Hamburg, Frankfurt and D\u00fcsseldorf, and Uber intends to expand into at least six other German cities.Authorities in Berlin and Hamburg tried to ban the app earlier this year, citing a lack of proper permits and insurance, but in both cases local administrative courts suspended the bans, pending procedural decisions and further hearings.Uber says Germany represents one of the company's most fertile markets, with registrations having quintupled since the start of the year.", "tags": ["Uber", "Technology", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Technology sector", "Apps"], "title": "Car sharing service Uber banned in Germany"},{"date": "2014-09-30T13:57:30Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Online electrical appliance retailer AO World is taking its first step overseas with the launch of a website in Germany.The site, which was promised at the time of AO\u2019s stock market flotation in February is launching six months ahead of schedule on 14 October. The company has set up a German warehouse, head office and delivery network in a bid to replicate its UK operation in offering low prices and speedy delivery.John Roberts, founder and chief executive of AO said: \u201cGermany is our stepping stone to realising our ambition to become the leading online retailer in our categories.\u201dAO said the early launch of its German site would bring forward some costs but it was trading well in the UK. It said it was continuing to gain market share and was on track to meet full year profit expectations.Analysts welcomed the reassurance about trading, but shares in AO remain well below the 285p flotation price at 194p. The company has been hit by worries that online retailers are looking over-valued amid difficulties for online fashion retailer Asos as it attempts to expand overseas.", "tags": ["AO World", "Retail industry", "Business", "Germany"], "title": "AO World to launch in Germany"},{"date": "2014-09-28T08:00:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "In his new Radio 4 series, Neil MacGregor will tell the history of Germany with a series of objects chosen from his new exhibition, Germany: Memories of a Nation, which opens at the British Museum on 16 October. We\u2019ve chosen five modern German objects that are unlikely to have made the cut.Fizzy and highly caffeinated, this beverage brewed in the Bavarian village of M\u00fcnchsteinach is the ambrosia of urbanised 21st-century Germans. Colloquially known as Hackerbrause, it enjoys a particularly cult status in Berlin\u2019s burgeoninghacking and digital startup scene, and played a crucial part in ensuring that Edward Snowden\u2019s revelations about NSA surveillance were met with more energised outrage in Germany than anywhere else.Demographics show that Germans are increasingly deserting the countryside and heading for the cities. Yet they can\u2019t stop fantasising about forests and freshly cut hay: Landlust, a rustic lifestyle bimonthly launched in 2005, sells over a million copies, more than the news weekly Der Spiegel. It could be the ultimate expression of a modern German obsession with Entschleunigung (slowing): the desire to take our stressful, work-focused lifestyles down a notch.Modern Germany is cautious about military interventions, having taken a stance against the war in Iraq in 2002 and air strikes in Libya in 2011. But it is also the world\u2019s third-largest arms exporter. Engineered and manufactured by a family-run business in Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg, Heckler & Koch\u2019s submachine guns are a classic product of Germany\u2019s export-focused Mittelstand (small and medium sized companies). Campaigners estimate they kill an average of 114 people a year. Osama bin Laden was probably shot with an upgraded version of their MP7A1 assault rifle.For many Germans, the national colours are still more likely to cause discomfort rather than pride \u2013 unless there\u2019s an international football tournament taking place somewhere in the world. Ever since the 2006 World Cup, ritualised displays of \u201cparty patriotism\u201d have become an unshakable habit. Wing-mirror covers in black, red and gold are particularly popular: they are both more discreetly patriotic and considerably more aerodynamic than a large flag.Testimony to changing culinary habits, the influence of German-Turkish multiculturalism and the enduring appeal of German precision engineering, Alkadur RobotSystem is a rotating grill that shaves off its own slabs of kebab meat. The machine gained cult status when its inventor, Duran Kabakyer, made a grammatical boob on a talkshow by getting his articles mixed up and describing his creation as der Ger\u00e4t (the unit) as opposed to das Ger\u00e4t (the device).A popular rap song ponders whether the tireless, ever-efficient Alkadur will end up putting the entire nation out of work.", "tags": ["Germany", "Museums", "Radio 4", "BBC", "Europe", "Culture"], "title": "Five objects that make modern Germany"},{"date": "2014-09-26T13:00:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It is 25 years since the Berlin Wall fell and a new Germany was born.\u00a0In the last quarter of a\u00a0century the country has seen an\u00a0unprecedented opening up of\u00a0archives and a\u00a0programme of national education and much public debate about the different inheritances of East and West Germany. There has also been an unprecedented building of monuments marking the horrors of\u00a0the recent past. But what are the memories that German citizens bring to their new state? What, in short, does the world look like if you are German?At the forefront of that memory is the Third Reich and the Holocaust.But there is more than that, and one\u00a0of the ways that German history is\u00a0not like other European histories is that Germans consciously use it as\u00a0a\u00a0warning to act differently in the future. As the historian Michael St\u00fcrmer says, \"for a\u00a0long time in Germany, history was what must not be allowed to happen again\". This is very different from Britain or France, where most public engagement with history, in terms of\u00a0monuments and memorials, is to honour valour and heroism, with little public recognition of\u00a0any wrongdoing, or of follies that might have led to the wars in which the\u00a0valour had to be demonstrated. What is striking about German war memorials is that they look forward not back \u2013 a characteristic clearly visible in their parliament building.The historic Reichstag was burnt out\u00a0in 1933, with the fire blamed on the\u00a0communists and used to advantage by\u00a0the Nazis. During the war it was badly damaged, then occupied by the\u00a0Russians. After reunification the decision was made to restore it, but the\u00a0marks of the 1933 fire, as well as graffiti made by Soviet soldiers, were left untouched, as a reminder to legislators that if you get things as wrong as\u00a0Germany did then the consequences are unimaginably terrible. An MP travelling to the Reichstag today will pass not only the Holocaust memorial but also memorials to the killing of homosexuals, disabled people and Roma. When they get to the building, they find it topped by a huge glass dome, to which the public have access. So not only do you have an emblem of a transparent legislature, but the public can literally exercise oversight over their government \u2013 a direct reversal of\u00a0the situation under both the Nazis and the Stasi.In effect the building is a meditation on different aspects of history. I can't think of another country in the world that lives so closely with the acutely uncomfortable reminders of its past in\u00a0order to help it act more wisely in\u00a0future.In making our radio series, British Museum exhibition and book we have tried to look at objects that evoke memories of which pretty well all Germans can say \"this is\u00a0part of me\". Some are obvious, such as the Gutenberg Bible. Every German knows that Germany invented printing and, in\u00a0that sense, made the modern world. But we have also tried to focus on elements that the British public might not be so familiar with, as well as\u00a0areas of German history about which there is\u00a0still a reticence in Germany. People talk about the Holocaust very honestly and fully, but subjects such as\u00a0the huge\u00a0civilian losses from allied bombing raids are little discussed, unlike in this country. Yet\u00a0it\u00a0remains a\u00a0potent memory.It has always been the British Museum's job to present the history we\u00a0need in order to make sense of now.\u00a0Germany is the European state we\u00a0most need to understand if we are going to comprehend both Europe, and\u00a0the world.'An instrument of state surveillance'The official account of oppression in East Germany does exist in the state archives, but it is written in such a deliberately bland and concealing way as to give very little impression of what actually happened. This cheaply made blue wetsuit with white zips, probably worn only once, tells you far more. Breaching the Berlin Wall wasn't the only route to the west. A hundred miles north was another favoured crossing point, if\u00a0you were willing to sail across the Baltic in a rubber dinghy, as the owner of the wetsuit had intended to\u00a0in November 1987 \u2013 despite the likeliest outcome being either dying of hypothermia or being shot. In this instance, the man was arrested before he even set off, but the fact was that people were still willing to risk their lives just two years before the Berlin Wall came down. Equally revealing is what happened after the\u00a0man was sent to prison and the wet\u00a0suit was confiscated by the Stasi. They used it as a training prop to instruct their informants as to what sort of products they should watch out for. Why would anyone need a\u00a0wetsuit, or plastics or rubber that could be made into a wetsuit, or a\u00a0dinghy, or anything that could be turned into a flying machine, or used as tunnelling equipment? And so on. If you saw your neighbours buying, or\u00a0possessing these things, you were to let the Stasi know. So the wetsuit is\u00a0not only evidence of one citizen wanting to flee, it also became an symbol of state surveillance, designed to prevent others from trying to escape.One of the most remarkable things to come out of opening the Stasi archives was evidence of the extent of this surveillance. It is reckoned that one in three of the population of the GDR was at some time, in some way, informing on their\u00a0friends, neighbours or families. The memory of that has had profound implications for the new German state. If you walk round Berlin today you will see \u2013 in stark contrast to Britain \u2013 almost no CCTV cameras. Edward Snowden's revelations of state surveillance made him, again in\u00a0contrast to the UK, something of a\u00a0national hero in Germany, with effigies of him paraded in the streets\u00a0during Mardi Gras carnival processions. Germany's assiduous public study of its uncomfortable modern history has ensured that every adult knows what happened under both the Nazis and the Stasi. They know these things were done by\u00a0the state in the name of the people. This wetsuit is a reminder of\u00a0what can happen if the citizen fails to keep the state under control.'A citizen of the world'We tend to think that all the great writers are somehow the same: Dante, Shakespeare, Cervantes. But Goethe is different. Of course, he is the great writer that every German schoolchild learns and reads as we do Shakespeare, but more than that he represents a\u00a0German belief in openness to the world. The 1787 Tischbein portrait is the most famous portrait in the whole of Germany. It shows Goethe in Italy. He had just become a European celebrity after the publication of The\u00a0Sorrows of Young Werther (the Clockwork Orange of the 18th century), and he was the first to make German a\u00a0literary language read by foreigners. There is a wonderful German word \u2013 Weltb\u00fcrger \u2013 a citizen of\u00a0the world. That is how Goethe is shown here. Engaged with, appropriating and interpreting the whole world, he makes clear that you need to know about Britain and France, about Greece and Rome \u2013 you cannot have a culture that is only German. He also, strikingly, engaged with Islam in a way that is a\u00a0significant part of the contemporary debate about how Germany should respond to its Muslim population.Understandably, the Nazis were ambivalent about him. He was, of course, a hero, but they didn't like the\u00a0indecisiveness of his protagonists (most of his heroes can't make up their minds), and, above all, they didn't like his willingness to look for models of behaviour outside Germany.'A memory of their local sausage'De Gaulle once complained about how difficult it was to govern a country with\u00a0246 different cheeses. He did not know how lucky he was. Germany has more than four times as many types of\u00a0sausage. What those sausages tell you is that the regional identity of Germany is still flourishing in a way that has probably never been the case in England, where there has been a\u00a0centralised government in a dominant London for 1,000 years. Because of Germany's political fragmentation until 1870, and the deep differences in\u00a0dialect and local history, there is a\u00a0lively regional variety in Germany, expressed gastronomically through wine, beer and sausages, and politically through the L\u00e4nder system. Each Land, or state has its own two-house parliament. Hamburg, for example, has survived unbroken as a city state since the early Middle Ages.One of the big questions for a\u00a0country that has never had fixed frontiers at its edges, and contains an\u00a0extraordinary range of diversity, is:\u00a0what does it share? Language, beer and sausages are among the shared things, and all have pronounced local flavours. Even today you can tell where\u00a0you are in Germany by what kind of sausage you are offered and the\u00a0way people \u2013 of every class \u2013 pronounce their German. Pretty well all Germans\u00a0carry both a local accent, and\u00a0a memory of their local sausage.'National artist of Germany'Within a generation of the invention of printing, the Germans had done everything you can do with print; books, broadsheets, pamphlets and images. The great concentration of autonomous cities linked by rivers in south\u00a0Germany provided the ideal communications and distribution network for a large, literate and prosperous population. Albrecht D\u00fcrer, working in one of the great trading centres, Nuremberg, realised that as a maker of prints he could sell his art across the whole of the\u00a0continent, and, just as Goethe was the first German writer to be read across Europe, D\u00fcrer was the first major artist anywhere to make his work for a pan-European market. To protect his continent-wide success, he invented his own logo, in\u00a0the form of the famous AD (which he later successfully defended in Venice). His work\u00a0is\u00a0familiar to every German, in particular his two great engravings, Knight, Death and the Devil, and Melancholia, which were long taken as\u00a0two aspects of one national self-portrait: the knight riding bravely out to do what must be done; the figure of creative genius slumped on the floor, aware of so many creative possibilities that he is unable to act at all. The different sides of the German spirit.D\u00fcrer is a national artist of Germany in a different way from Turner or Constable in Britain, who explore landscape. D\u00fcrer, working in the early 16th century, is focused on character; you may explore your own \u2013 and Germany's \u2013 experiences in the light of\u00a0his images.'The celebrated porcelain menagerie'All Germans know their country is one of the great centres of technological innovation. And one of the great technological breakthroughs ever was made by Johann B\u00f6ttger, a man who was something between an alchemist and a chemist working in Dresden in around 1710. He was the first European to discover how to make porcelain. At\u00a0the time, Chinese porcelain was one\u00a0of the most precious things in Europe, but nobody in the west knew what it\u00a0was made of. After a long process of\u00a0trial and error, B\u00f6ttger worked it out.\u00a0The result was that his\u00a0patron, Augustus the Strong, ruler of\u00a0Saxony, now had something that no\u00a0other European head of state had, or\u00a0could give as a present to potential allies. For\u00a0a few decades Dresden porcelain was Saxony's equivalent of\u00a0panda diplomacy.The Chinese had used porcelain in\u00a0quite limited ways, for vessels and dishes. Dresden flamboyantly made sculptures, especially of animals, demonstrating total mastery of a\u00a0very\u00a0difficult medium and technique. In\u00a0the\u00a0celebrated porcelain menagerie in\u00a0the royal palace, the figures of the\u00a0hen, fox, peacock etc were modelled on real animals. But for the\u00a0rhinoceros the craftsmen went to\u00a0D\u00fcrer, who had\u00a0never seen a rhinoceros, but nonetheless produced a\u00a0print based on\u00a0reports sent from Lisbon. By\u00a0the early 1700s, real rhinoceroses had been\u00a0seen, but, like many Germans\u00a0before and since, they preferred to see the world through D\u00fcrer's eyes. The Dresden porcelain rhinoceros, with its pugnacious charm\u00a0and its anatomical oddities, is\u00a0completely unforgettable.After the second world war, Meissen found itself in the Soviet zone,\u00a0but the Russians kept the industry going, and so\u00a0the factory set up by Augustus the Strong received commissions to make official portraits of the\u00a0leaders of the communist East German state. You can't be a\u00a0ruler of Germany, control Dresden, and not mind about\u00a0porcelain.'Supremacy in precision engineering in metal'The Germans are masters of metal. In the Saarland and the Ruhr there is\u00a0a metallurgic tradition that goes back thousands of years, and the country has long defined itself through high-end metal engineering in every field. By 1500, precision instrument making was dominated by south Germany and that is where buyers still go today. Gutenberg could\u00a0make movable type only because there were people nearby who knew how to manufacture hundreds of identical pieces of metal. Shakespeare talks about expensive German clocks. Despite what Harry Lime, the third man, said, it was Germany not Switzerland that almost certainly invented the cuckoo clock.Unsurprisingly, the Germans were\u00a0also the first people to dominate the\u00a0top end of the car market with Daimler-Benz and Mercedes. But one\u00a0of the extraordinary developments of\u00a0the 1930s was that Hitler decided he wanted Germany to be like the US\u00a0and produce cars for everybody. The\u00a0Volkswagen was an\u00a0attempt to do\u00a0something odd in German history, produce a low-cost,\u00a0mass-market engineering product. But it was not an economic proposition, war was approaching, metal was needed for other things, and production was stopped.After the war the British took over the plant, but no British car manufacturer liked the design and so the\u00a0Germans resumed ownership. Reverting to their high-skill traditions, they then turned what had\u00a0been meant to be a cheap mass\u2011market car into something of\u00a0extremely high quality, but with\u00a0as low a price as possible. The\u00a0Volkswagen became the emblem of\u00a0both the long German tradition of\u00a0supremacy in precision engineering in metal, and also of the postwar economic miracle of the Federal Republic.'The grief of the survivor' In Britain, France and elsewhere, most war memorials are designed to honour the dead. What is striking in Germany is the focus on those who are\u00a0left; monuments that depict the\u00a0grief of the survivor. And in the 20th century, with its many catastrophic killings, there have been many grieving survivors. K\u00e4the Kollwitz explored all through her life how the image of one mother's pain can carry the sorrow of a\u00a0continent.Kollwitz was a mother whose son had died in October 1914. Peter had been too young to join up for the first world war and needed his father's approval. The father was reluctant, but Kollwitz persuaded her husband to let the boy go. He was killed 10 days later. So she had not only a profound sense of loss, but also of guilt and responsibility. When she was asked to provide the memorial at the cemetery where her son was buried, she turned that mix of emotions into an exploration of the cosmic tragedy of the first world war. She made a simple image of two parents, on their knees, separate, isolated in their own grief, looking over the cemetery full of the young dead. There is no image of the son.In 1937, Kollwitz was still working through the sorrow of 1914 and on the anniversary of her son's death that year she wrote in her diary about making a small sculpture that has \"become something like a Piet\u00e0 [a depiction of Mary with the dead Christ]\". But she had moved far away from any Christian tradition or convention and found a powerful way of articulating the desolation of those who are left. Nothing in this later sculpture suggests sacrifice to achieve a higher purpose. There is no hint of\u00a0salvation, merely a silent response to\u00a0slaughter.After the reunification of Germany in 1990, Chancellor Helmut Kohl proposed a National Monument to all Victims of War and Tyranny in the Neue Wache in Berlin. The image he chose was an enlarged version of that sculpture created in 1937 by Kollwitz, herself both witness and victim. It was a striking, brilliant insight on the part of Kohl to see the analogy between Kollwitz's mother protecting her child, and the state's recognition of its duty to defend all those over whom it has power \u2013 and in either case, the terrible cost of failure.'A quiet, profound protest'All the concentration camps had slogans on their gates. Often it was Arbeit Macht Frei (Work makes you free). However, in Buchenwald, a\u00a0labour (not a death) camp \u2013 although many thousands of people were worked to death or deliberately killed there \u2013 the Nazis chose the motto Jedem Das Seine (To Each What They\u00a0Are Due). It was placed on the inside of the gate rather than the outside, so that every prisoner was reminded of it as they looked to the world outside.The words are a powerful statement \u2013 and in this context a complete and provocative perversion of any notion of justice. They are the German translation of the Roman law maxim Suum cuique, incorporated not just into German law but legal systems across Europe. They are the title of a Bach cantata performed in Weimar, the city of Goethe and Schiller, just 10 miles from Buchenwald. And this gate, so close to\u00a0Weimar, raises the unanswerable question of modern German history: how can these different components of\u00a0the German story fit together? How could all these humane traditions of justice and scholarship, music and law \u2013 of a civilised society \u2013 all collapse in the Nazi abyss?The Nazi authorities conscripted one of the inmates of the camp to design the words. Franz Ehrlich had been interned as a communist on trumped-up charges of treason. He had trained at the Bauhaus, the famous school of design, also in nearby Weimar, which was loathed by the Nazis for its internationalism and modernism. Ehrlich nonetheless used a beautiful Bauhaus typeface of the sort that the Nazis categorically disapproved of. Astonishingly, they didn't seem to notice. It is impossible not to read the sign as a quiet, profound protest. Ehrlich was compelled to design this hateful, callous motto, but he did it in a way that showed that another Germany, a humane, international Germany, survived. These shocking words in that typeface suggest that people, even in terrible circumstance, may sometimes find a way of asserting dignity.'The rubble women'WG Sebald has written about the striking gap in German public and literary discourse about what the allied bombings did to the civilian population. There is probably more debate about the fire-bombing of Dresden in this country than in Germany. Sebald suggests this may be because the bombing was seen as deserved retribution and therefore the victims were not entitled to talk about their suffering. But the memory of the bombings and the losses is strong, and Dresden is a very particular case and memory. The same Augustus of the porcelain rhinoceros also built the beautiful 18th-century city and filled it with supreme art treasures . Then, on the 12th and 13th ofFebruary 1945, the city was, reduced to rubble by British and American bombers. Later In July and August that year the Soviets removed the entire art collection. Every part of Dresden's identity had been lost. But how did you start clearing up the colossal mess? All able-bodied women \u2013 there were few men \u2013 were conscripted to clear the rubble, mostly with their bare hands. And with astonishing speed the Tr\u00fcmmerfrauen (the rubble women) made Dresden, and Germany, habitable again by clearing away not only the destroyed buildings, but also the thousands of bodies that had been incinerated within them.The sculptor Max Lachnit, who worked in Dresden, lost all his work in the air raid. He made this little statue of one of the Tr\u00fcmmerfrau from bits of coloured stone he found in the ruins. She is young, looking steadfastly forward, totally impassive. We have no idea who she is \u2013 she stands for thousands. It is not a\u00a0great work of art, but it encapsulates one of the deep memories of many Germans, of the endless rubble, of the late 1940s, and of the huge army of women who cleared it. Only then could the reconstruction of the cities, and the economy, begin.'The quest for resolution and reconciliation'The biography of Ernst Barlach's sculpture is the biography of Germany in the 20th century. Barlach had joined up for the first world war as a committed patriot who wanted to fight. His experience of the trenches had made him a\u00a0pacifist. He built this memorial to\u00a0those killed in the war and to remember those who remained \u2013 using the face of\u00a0his friend the artist K\u00e4the Kollwitz \u2013 for the Protestant cathedral of G\u00fcstrow, a small town just over 100 miles to the north of Berlin. His Hovering Angel, suspended from the ceiling \u2013 so elevating individual grief into general mourning \u2013 is an evocation of a mother looking west, to\u00a0the killing fields of Flanders, grieving serenely, perpetually, for her dead\u00a0son. It is about reflecting on responsibility for the war, and sorrow for its consequences.Of course, the Nazis hated its pacifism. Eventually they took it away and melted down the bronze to use as material for the next war. After it was removed from the cathedral in 1938, Barlach's friends, assisted by a dealer who had suspiciously good relations with the authorities, located the original plaster mould and made a\u00a0second bronze, which was buried for\u00a0safe-keeping. When that emerged after\u00a0the war, it was in the west, and the angel's previous home G\u00fcstrow, a small town just over 100 miles to the north of Berlin was in the east. So the second bronze went to the Antonite Church in Cologne. There, on\u00a0the slab in the floor below it, they added to the dates 1914\u20131918, the years 1933-1945. The strength of the Angel's symbolic power, they believed, was able to carry not just the sorrow of the\u00a0first war, but\u00a0the added burden of\u00a0the further millions of losses and deaths of\u00a0the entire Nazi period.In the early 50s, against the backdrop of the cold war, another cast of\u00a0the version in Cologne was made, and\u00a0sent to G\u00fcstrow, as an act of reconciliation and friendship. So another layer of meaning was added to\u00a0Barlach's image. When in 1981 West German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt made an official visit to East Germany, he stood beneath the angel in G\u00fcstrow with GDR leader, Erich Honecker and talked of what the two German states might share. When we asked to\u00a0borrow it for the British Museum exhibition, the congregation of G\u00fcstrow Cathedral had to\u00a0give their agreement. After much reflection they eventually decided that the purpose of\u00a0the object was to promote healing and reconciliation, and that, 100 years after 1914, reconciliation was still needed between Britain and Germany. So it will come to\u00a0London. In\u00a0the exhibition here, this third version of Barlach's Angel will embody the war fever of 1914; pacifism in the 1920s; the\u00a0humane art of K\u00e4the Kollwitz; the destruction of \"degenerate art\" by the\u00a0Nazis; the western front in the first world war and the bombing of Berlin in\u00a0the second; the postwar division of Germany and the dialogues that were possible in spite of it; the millions of victims of 20th-century conflicts; the continuing painful and difficult conversations between Germany and the rest of the world in the quest for resolution and reconciliation; and unquenchable hope.I can't think of any other exhibit that\u00a0has such profound resonance. I\u00a0hope people will respond to the generosity and earnestness of the people of G\u00fcstrow, who, by allowing it\u00a0to come to London, have added yet\u00a0another new dimension to this remarkable sculpture.\u2022 Germany: Memories of a Nation is on BBC Radio 4, Monday to Friday at 9.45am, for six weeks from 29\u00a0September. The\u00a0exhibition opens at the British Museum on 16 October, britishmuseum.org. Germany:\u00a0Memories of a Nation by Neil MacGregor is published by Allen Lane on 6 November (\u00a325).", "tags": ["Society", "History", "Books", "Art and design", "Exhibitions", "Radio 4", "Radio", "Television & radio", "Museums", "Culture", "Berlin Wall", "Germany", "World news"], "title": "Ten objects that made modern Germany"},{"date": "2014-09-11T05:30:01Z", "country": "germany", "content": "In November 1989, three days before the fall of the Berlin Wall, East German television screened a documentary called Ist Leipzig noch zu retten (Is there hope for Leipzig?). The revelations were explosive: contrary to what the GDR regime had been claiming, the film showed Saxony\u2019s largest city crumbling to pieces. Saving it would require so much time and money, some of the architects interviewed reckoned, that it would make be more sense to flatten the historic quarters altogether.Twenty-five years later, the people of Leipzig have different concerns. Gushing reports of the city\u2019s thriving creative scene, green spaces and quality of living have earned the place the nickname Hypezig, and some locals fear its reputation as \u201cthe better Berlin\u201d may attract private investors, and drive up property prices.Plagwitz, the western district whose housing stock was so bad in 1989 that Leipzig\u2019s chief architect said \u201cit would be irresponsible to have people continue to live here\u201d, illustrates the city\u2019s transformation. Once a soot-covered industrial suburb dotted with the chimneys of metalwork shops, it has cleaned up its act but not lost its crooked charm. Buildings on the main thoroughfare, Karl-Heine-Strasse \u2013 it\u2019s named after the 19th-century industrialist who put the district on the map \u2013 have almost all been renovated, but without losing their sense of history. Some of them may now house galleries and ice-cream parlours that sell strawberry and lavender sorbet, but family businesses such as Schicketanz butchers and Seidel\u2019s bakery will keep the area grounded. At Meins bar and cafe, a student favourite, they cook old-fashioned family recipes such as eggs in mustard sauce, and invite guests request their favourite \u201cgranny food\u201d.As part of a project started in 2006, houses on Karl-Heine Strasse have been fitted with neon signs spelling out abstract qualities associated with what takes place inside \u2013 \u201ccomfort\u201d, \u201ceffort\u201d, \u201clust\u201d, and so on. To find out more, try a three-hour walking tour with Ina Thyrolf of Eat The World that dives deep into the area\u2019s cultural and culinary secrets.Plagwitz\u2019s charm is different from Berlin\u2019s, where the numerous side-street cafes can lend the capital a sleepy, villagey feel. Leipzig, though smaller, feels busier: social life takes place along the city\u2019s main arteries. Its art scene, too, is more focused, more work-orientated, with an aesthetic \u2013 socialist realism meets pop art \u2013 which feels like it belongs nowhere else.The Baumwollspinnerei on Spinnereistrasse off the western end of Karl-Heine Strasse is a former cotton mill now home to over 120 artists\u2019 studios and the engine of Plagwitz\u2019s revival: walking along its cobbled streets on a balmy late summer afternoon, one sees surprisingly few artists basking in the sunshine. Most of them are in their studios, getting work done.On Fridays and Saturdays, you can take a guided tour of the studios (\u20ac10pp, non-German speakers should call in advance), and even stay in some of the studios \u2013 at \u20ac65-\u20ac85 a night, they are cheaper than hotels in the area. Next year, as Leipzig celebrates its 1,000th birthday, the Spinnerei also celebrates the tenth anniversary of its Rundg\u00e4nge, the open days held in January, May and September.The artists, such as Maria and Vlado Ondrej, accept that Plagwitz is no longer a secret. After all, they need people to buy their work, say the couple, who have been making prints in the Spinnerei since 1993. \u201cIf we want to get on with our work we just close our doors\u201d, says Vlado. \u201cThe good thing about working in a factory is that the doors are really solid.\u201d", "tags": ["Germany holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Cultural trips", "Short breaks"], "title": "Germany: Is Leipzig the new Berlin?"},{"date": "2014-09-02T12:13:47Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The online car-sharing service Uber has vowed to continue operating across Germany after its mobile app was banned by a Frankfurt regional court.The ruling that the app violates the country's Passenger Transportation Act applies nationwide, according to legal experts. The temporary ban remains in place until a full hearing takes place, and Uber could face a \u20ac250,000 (\u00a3198,000) fine per ride.But Uber vowed to keep the app online regardless. \"You cannot put the brakes on progress,\" the company said. \"Uber will continue its operations and will offer Uberpop ride-sharing services via its app throughout Germany.\" It promised to appeal against the decision and would, if necessary, \"exhaust all the legal possibilities\".The case against Uber was brought by the Taxi Deutschland Servicegesellschaft company, which offers a rival app that links users to registered taxi drivers. The company argued that Uber was not operating a legitimate service because its drivers did not have the correct permits, were not properly insured, and were not subject to checks. German law allows drivers without a commercial licence to pick up passengers only if they charge no more than the operating cost of the trip.\"We are very happy with the decision,\" TDS spokeswoman Anja Floetenmeyer said. \"The law says there are safety regulations for drivers and safety regulations for users, and these also apply to neo-liberal firms like Uber.\"Describing the sharing economy as a \"locust\", TDS chairman Dieter Schlenker said: \"Uber operates with billions in cash from Goldman Sachs and Google, wraps itself in a start-up look and sells itself as a new economy saviour.\"Floetenmeyer said that since Uber was choosing to ignore the ban, TDS would now formally ask the court to enforce the relevant fines. \"If you get into a car, you are legally in the hands of the driver with your life and your personal health and safety,\" she said. \"And the driver has to play by the German rules.\"Floetenmeyer also warned that the next step would be to impose additional fines on drivers using the Uber app. The five-year-old San Francisco-based company, recently valued at $18bn (\u00a310.9bn), has faced determined opposition from taxi operators in cities across the world, with thousands of drivers in June bringing traffic almost to a standstill in London, Paris and Madrid, among other places.The latest court decision further raises the stakes for Uber in Germany, where it has had to fend off legal challenges for months in Berlin and Hamburg on issues ranging from licensing to whether its drivers are fully insured to carry passengers.Uber has pursued an aggressive business strategy in the country, expanding rapidly and defying a number of attempts by local authorities to ban it. The app is available in Berlin, Munich, Hamburg, Frankfurt and D\u00fcsseldorf, and Uber intends to expand into at least six other German cities.Authorities in Berlin and Hamburg tried to ban the app earlier this year, citing a lack of proper permits and insurance, but in both cases local administrative courts suspended the bans, pending procedural decisions and further hearings.Uber says Germany represents one of the company's most fertile markets, with registrations having quintupled since the start of the year.", "tags": ["Uber", "Technology", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Technology sector", "Apps"], "title": "Car sharing service Uber banned in Germany"},{"date": "2014-09-01T10:54:46Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany's anti-EU party the Alternative f\u00fcr Deutschland (AfD) scored a triumph in Saxony on Sunday by winning its first representation anywhere in the country.Contesting its first election in the state, the AfD beat two mainstream parties, the Greens and the Free Demoratic party, to come fourth.The AfD leader, Bernd Lucke, said the result proved \"the AfD had definitively arrived in the German party landscape\".The result adds weight to the AfD's claims that it has re-ordered Germany's political establishment, after official analyses showed the party took votes from across the spectrum \u2013 particularly from Angela Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU) \u2013 to win 9.7% of the vote.That is potentially enough to claim 14 of the 126 seats in the Saxony parliament. It would even be enough to enter government as part of a coalition with the centre-right CDU, though that has been ruled out by the CDU state premier, Stanislaw Tillich, whose party was the clear winner with 39.4%.The result is particularly significant as the euro crisis was not the focus of the election campaign in Saxony \u2013 when the AfD was founded in February 2013, it was seen as a cerebral party of disgruntled economists unhappy with Merkel's currency policy.But the Saxony campaign suggests the AfD is increasingly positioning itself as a rightwing alternative to the mainstream CDU \u2013 it has proposed tighter controls on asylum seekers and quicker deportations. Germany expects to host a record number of refugees this year.Political researchers Infratest found that the AfD took 13,000 votes from the far-right National Democratic party \u2013 enough to tip it out of the state parliament.With this new momentum, the AfD looks likely to consolidate its power in the regions in two weeks, when Brandenburg and Thuringia states go to the polls.", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Angela Merkel", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Business"], "title": "Germany Eurosceptics win state seats in Saxony"},{"date": "2014-12-02T14:00:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Her face lights up briefly with the memory of it: \u201cShampoo and coffee! Only if you lived in the GDR would you know what those shops smelled like\u201d. I had asked about that socialist peculiarity \u2013 Intershops: hard currency stores that stocked things, like coffee, that hadn\u2019t otherwise been available in the German Democratic Republic. My guide was 10 when the Berlin Wall came down and she had mixed memories of socialist East Germany. She was showing me round her hometown of Eisenh\u00fcttenstadt, built from scratch in the early 1950s to house workers for the giant steel mill established there. Its wide boulevard of a main street leads straight to the steel mill, still functioning and billowing out white smoke but now downsized and owned by a corporation.It was the first of the new Soviet-inspired industrial combine towns to be built in eastern Europe. It was promoted as a socialist showcase and was called Stalinstadt until 1961. At its height the city was home to about 50,000 but now it was down to around 30,000: one of eastern Germany\u2019s shrinking cities.\u201cYou are my first tour in English,\u201d the guide admitted once we had identified ourselves at the slightly run-down two-track train station. The weather was a cold, grey drizzle threatening to get worse. The guide explained that usually some of the tour was walked but not today, so for the next couple of hours or so we hopped in and out of her Skoda. Our first stop was the tall, dark columnar Soviet war memorial. It marks a mass grave of more than 4,000 Soviet soldiers. During Stalin\u2019s time the official story was that they had died in battle. The truth was the vast majority died in a PoW camp.From there she took me to see some of the housing complexes, tall regular blocks built around generous areas of grass and trees with lots of benches and little bronze statues. The creamy-coloured blocks were built one after another as the population grew; each one had to be built \u201cfaster and cheaper\u201d than the last one to keep up with demand. The guide pointed out the changing architecture from Stalinist neoclassicism to motifs based on Grimm\u2019s fairytales: a reflection in itself of the complicated politics of the GDR in its 40 or so years of existence.\u201cI love my town,\u201d the guide explained. Since 1989 decline had really set in. It was hard for her to see the place dying: boarded up blocks and phased closing down of others, but she was hopeful. Eisenh\u00fcttenstadt has been given heritage status; surviving buildings were being renovated; the gardens and squares tidied up. The numerous small bronze statues are restored: a wild boar here, a mother with a child there, and an elegant dancer-like figure gracing a pathway. The Trabant car showroom is now a bright yellow bakery, the Activist Restaurant a pub. The last thing she points out is the huge mosaic of a giant hand releasing a dove that continues to overlook the main street.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Germany"], "title": "Letter from Germany: shrinking city"},{"date": "2014-12-02T14:00:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Her face lights up briefly with the memory of it: \u201cShampoo and coffee! Only if you lived in the GDR would you know what those shops smelled like\u201d. I had asked about that socialist peculiarity \u2013 Intershops: hard currency stores that stocked things, like coffee, that hadn\u2019t otherwise been available in the German Democratic Republic. My guide was 10 when the Berlin Wall came down and she had mixed memories of socialist East Germany. She was showing me round her hometown of Eisenh\u00fcttenstadt, built from scratch in the early 1950s to house workers for the giant steel mill established there. Its wide boulevard of a main street leads straight to the steel mill, still functioning and billowing out white smoke but now downsized and owned by a corporation.It was the first of the new Soviet-inspired industrial combine towns to be built in eastern Europe. It was promoted as a socialist showcase and was called Stalinstadt until 1961. At its height the city was home to about 50,000 but now it was down to around 30,000: one of eastern Germany\u2019s shrinking cities.\u201cYou are my first tour in English,\u201d the guide admitted once we had identified ourselves at the slightly run-down two-track train station. The weather was a cold, grey drizzle threatening to get worse. The guide explained that usually some of the tour was walked but not today, so for the next couple of hours or so we hopped in and out of her Skoda. Our first stop was the tall, dark columnar Soviet war memorial. It marks a mass grave of more than 4,000 Soviet soldiers. During Stalin\u2019s time the official story was that they had died in battle. The truth was the vast majority died in a PoW camp.From there she took me to see some of the housing complexes, tall regular blocks built around generous areas of grass and trees with lots of benches and little bronze statues. The creamy-coloured blocks were built one after another as the population grew; each one had to be built \u201cfaster and cheaper\u201d than the last one to keep up with demand. The guide pointed out the changing architecture from Stalinist neoclassicism to motifs based on Grimm\u2019s fairytales: a reflection in itself of the complicated politics of the GDR in its 40 or so years of existence.\u201cI love my town,\u201d the guide explained. Since 1989 decline had really set in. It was hard for her to see the place dying: boarded up blocks and phased closing down of others, but she was hopeful. Eisenh\u00fcttenstadt has been given heritage status; surviving buildings were being renovated; the gardens and squares tidied up. The numerous small bronze statues are restored: a wild boar here, a mother with a child there, and an elegant dancer-like figure gracing a pathway. The Trabant car showroom is now a bright yellow bakery, the Activist Restaurant a pub. The last thing she points out is the huge mosaic of a giant hand releasing a dove that continues to overlook the main street.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Germany"], "title": "Letter from Germany: shrinking city"},{"date": "2014-11-09T17:42:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Twenty-five years after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the international community faces an unprecedented set of challenges. The headlines and our collective awareness are dominated by famines, crises such as the Ebola epidemic and countless centres of conflict in the Middle East, Africa and Eastern Europe. The world seems as helpless as ever and our governments are split over how to solve the problems. Millions of people worldwide are on the move, fleeing war, hunger, repression and poverty, and European countries, in particular Germany, appear to them to be the last safe refuge. The challenge facing rich western nations is a moral as well as a social one.The 25th anniversary of the fall of the wall is a fitting moment to reflect on the state of the world today and on the responsibility borne by Europe as a whole and specifically by Germany, which has now been a reunified country for a quarter of a century.The collapse of the Soviet Union and the resulting prospect of a new world order marked the end of a precarious equilibrium and the beginning of an apparent unipolarity dominated by the west \u2013 first and foremost the US, followed by the countries of Europe. As western democratic and capitalistic systems had prevailed, this might have produced a clear and undisputed hegemony, which could have moulded the international politics of the new era. Instead, the west was unable to make good its claim to be a global leader. Through lack of unity, unhealthy ideological triumphalism and moral failure in international crises such as the Rwandan genocide and the invasion of Iraq with the ensuing scandals of Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo Bay, the US in particular gradually forfeited the moral and political authority that it had built up so successfully in Europe with the Marshall plan after the second world war.The capitalist system, too, has its faults and the opportunity to create a new and viable one incorporating the positive aspects of socialism, capitalism and democracy was not seized. The attacks of 11 September and the subsequent war on terror, which plunged an entire region into an interminable crisis, demonstrated that the west\u2019s position of power had changed drastically.Today the world appears rudderless. Even small, ostensibly local, conflicts quickly grow and spread out of control. September\u00a011 and its repercussions, the wars in the Middle East, the Ukraine conflict; all this would have been unthinkable if the west had found a new balance and lived up to its responsibilities after the cold war. Instead, there is now an international power vacuum. I am convinced that Europe in general and Germany in particular should shoulder more of the burden in these difficult times.For a long time \u2013 and doubtless for good reasons \u2013 Germany has declined a leadership role, preferring a policy based on consensus and cooperation, especially where the European Union is concerned. In the future, too, Germany should not go it alone, yet it can still take a more active part in foreign affairs than it has up to now.The successful reconstruction of Germany after the second world war was only possible with international help. This begets responsibility \u2013 and no country is more aware of this than the Federal Republic. She is now in a position to provide long-term and credible assistance to the many suffering and fleeing people of the world, and she should do so. Recent German history is a tale of the success of democracy and it is incumbent on this country to give other states and peoples a chance to rebuild their nations and lives.I have lived as a Jew in Berlin for the past 23 years, something that would not have been possible if I did not believe that the Germans had thought long and hard about their past. No one else has managed to do this to the extent the Germans have, and I admire them for it. But this chapter of self-reflection should also have an impact on foreign policy.Germany\u2019s approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a diminutive one. It does not want to inflame sensibilities over its relations with Israel. However, if there is to be a solution to the conflict, Germany must play some role and exert some form of influence on Israeli policy. Germany can and should put political pressure on Israel. After all, we are talking here about the intellectual and political future of the state of Israel. The logic is simple: Germany is committed to the ongoing security of the state of Israel, but this is only possible in the long term if the future of the Palestinian people, too, is secured in its own sovereign state. If this does not happen, the wars and history of that region will be constantly repeated and the unbearable stalemate will continue.One man was under no illusion of this \u2013 the Israeli prime minister, Yitzhak Rabin: \u201cI was a soldier and I know that Israel can win wars with Syria, Lebanon and Egypt and maybe even beat them all at the same time. But Israel cannot win a war against the Palestinian people. My first duty is to protect the security of the Israeli people and I can only meet this obligation if we make peace with the Palestinians.\u201d It was this publicly expressed opinion that sadly cost Rabin his life.Germany\u2019s task, as a leading country of the world, is to make precisely this fact plain to the government of Israel \u2013 that Israel\u2019s lasting future depends on its government\u2019s willingness to enter into a genuine peace agreement with the Palestinians. That this also goes for the Palestinians grouped around Hamas hardly needs to be stressed. Both sides have to understand that they must live together for better or worse and that hatred, terror and territorial, ethnic and religious exclusion have never produced peace, but rather have led to killing and more killing. That, too, is a lesson that Germany, more than many other countries, has learned by bitter experience. It is a lesson that can and should inform the foreign policy of the Federal Republic.", "tags": ["Berlin Wall", "World news", "Germany", "Europe", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Middle East and North Africa", "UK news", "Daniel Barenboim", "Music"], "title": "Germany must talk straight with Israel | Daniel Barenboim"},{"date": "2014-12-02T14:00:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Her face lights up briefly with the memory of it: \u201cShampoo and coffee! Only if you lived in the GDR would you know what those shops smelled like\u201d. I had asked about that socialist peculiarity \u2013 Intershops: hard currency stores that stocked things, like coffee, that hadn\u2019t otherwise been available in the German Democratic Republic. My guide was 10 when the Berlin Wall came down and she had mixed memories of socialist East Germany. She was showing me round her hometown of Eisenh\u00fcttenstadt, built from scratch in the early 1950s to house workers for the giant steel mill established there. Its wide boulevard of a main street leads straight to the steel mill, still functioning and billowing out white smoke but now downsized and owned by a corporation.It was the first of the new Soviet-inspired industrial combine towns to be built in eastern Europe. It was promoted as a socialist showcase and was called Stalinstadt until 1961. At its height the city was home to about 50,000 but now it was down to around 30,000: one of eastern Germany\u2019s shrinking cities.\u201cYou are my first tour in English,\u201d the guide admitted once we had identified ourselves at the slightly run-down two-track train station. The weather was a cold, grey drizzle threatening to get worse. The guide explained that usually some of the tour was walked but not today, so for the next couple of hours or so we hopped in and out of her Skoda. Our first stop was the tall, dark columnar Soviet war memorial. It marks a mass grave of more than 4,000 Soviet soldiers. During Stalin\u2019s time the official story was that they had died in battle. The truth was the vast majority died in a PoW camp.From there she took me to see some of the housing complexes, tall regular blocks built around generous areas of grass and trees with lots of benches and little bronze statues. The creamy-coloured blocks were built one after another as the population grew; each one had to be built \u201cfaster and cheaper\u201d than the last one to keep up with demand. The guide pointed out the changing architecture from Stalinist neoclassicism to motifs based on Grimm\u2019s fairytales: a reflection in itself of the complicated politics of the GDR in its 40 or so years of existence.\u201cI love my town,\u201d the guide explained. Since 1989 decline had really set in. It was hard for her to see the place dying: boarded up blocks and phased closing down of others, but she was hopeful. Eisenh\u00fcttenstadt has been given heritage status; surviving buildings were being renovated; the gardens and squares tidied up. The numerous small bronze statues are restored: a wild boar here, a mother with a child there, and an elegant dancer-like figure gracing a pathway. The Trabant car showroom is now a bright yellow bakery, the Activist Restaurant a pub. The last thing she points out is the huge mosaic of a giant hand releasing a dove that continues to overlook the main street.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Germany"], "title": "Letter from Germany: shrinking city"},{"date": "2014-11-09T17:42:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Twenty-five years after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the international community faces an unprecedented set of challenges. The headlines and our collective awareness are dominated by famines, crises such as the Ebola epidemic and countless centres of conflict in the Middle East, Africa and Eastern Europe. The world seems as helpless as ever and our governments are split over how to solve the problems. Millions of people worldwide are on the move, fleeing war, hunger, repression and poverty, and European countries, in particular Germany, appear to them to be the last safe refuge. The challenge facing rich western nations is a moral as well as a social one.The 25th anniversary of the fall of the wall is a fitting moment to reflect on the state of the world today and on the responsibility borne by Europe as a whole and specifically by Germany, which has now been a reunified country for a quarter of a century.The collapse of the Soviet Union and the resulting prospect of a new world order marked the end of a precarious equilibrium and the beginning of an apparent unipolarity dominated by the west \u2013 first and foremost the US, followed by the countries of Europe. As western democratic and capitalistic systems had prevailed, this might have produced a clear and undisputed hegemony, which could have moulded the international politics of the new era. Instead, the west was unable to make good its claim to be a global leader. Through lack of unity, unhealthy ideological triumphalism and moral failure in international crises such as the Rwandan genocide and the invasion of Iraq with the ensuing scandals of Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo Bay, the US in particular gradually forfeited the moral and political authority that it had built up so successfully in Europe with the Marshall plan after the second world war.The capitalist system, too, has its faults and the opportunity to create a new and viable one incorporating the positive aspects of socialism, capitalism and democracy was not seized. The attacks of 11 September and the subsequent war on terror, which plunged an entire region into an interminable crisis, demonstrated that the west\u2019s position of power had changed drastically.Today the world appears rudderless. Even small, ostensibly local, conflicts quickly grow and spread out of control. September\u00a011 and its repercussions, the wars in the Middle East, the Ukraine conflict; all this would have been unthinkable if the west had found a new balance and lived up to its responsibilities after the cold war. Instead, there is now an international power vacuum. I am convinced that Europe in general and Germany in particular should shoulder more of the burden in these difficult times.For a long time \u2013 and doubtless for good reasons \u2013 Germany has declined a leadership role, preferring a policy based on consensus and cooperation, especially where the European Union is concerned. In the future, too, Germany should not go it alone, yet it can still take a more active part in foreign affairs than it has up to now.The successful reconstruction of Germany after the second world war was only possible with international help. This begets responsibility \u2013 and no country is more aware of this than the Federal Republic. She is now in a position to provide long-term and credible assistance to the many suffering and fleeing people of the world, and she should do so. Recent German history is a tale of the success of democracy and it is incumbent on this country to give other states and peoples a chance to rebuild their nations and lives.I have lived as a Jew in Berlin for the past 23 years, something that would not have been possible if I did not believe that the Germans had thought long and hard about their past. No one else has managed to do this to the extent the Germans have, and I admire them for it. But this chapter of self-reflection should also have an impact on foreign policy.Germany\u2019s approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a diminutive one. It does not want to inflame sensibilities over its relations with Israel. However, if there is to be a solution to the conflict, Germany must play some role and exert some form of influence on Israeli policy. Germany can and should put political pressure on Israel. After all, we are talking here about the intellectual and political future of the state of Israel. The logic is simple: Germany is committed to the ongoing security of the state of Israel, but this is only possible in the long term if the future of the Palestinian people, too, is secured in its own sovereign state. If this does not happen, the wars and history of that region will be constantly repeated and the unbearable stalemate will continue.One man was under no illusion of this \u2013 the Israeli prime minister, Yitzhak Rabin: \u201cI was a soldier and I know that Israel can win wars with Syria, Lebanon and Egypt and maybe even beat them all at the same time. But Israel cannot win a war against the Palestinian people. My first duty is to protect the security of the Israeli people and I can only meet this obligation if we make peace with the Palestinians.\u201d It was this publicly expressed opinion that sadly cost Rabin his life.Germany\u2019s task, as a leading country of the world, is to make precisely this fact plain to the government of Israel \u2013 that Israel\u2019s lasting future depends on its government\u2019s willingness to enter into a genuine peace agreement with the Palestinians. That this also goes for the Palestinians grouped around Hamas hardly needs to be stressed. Both sides have to understand that they must live together for better or worse and that hatred, terror and territorial, ethnic and religious exclusion have never produced peace, but rather have led to killing and more killing. That, too, is a lesson that Germany, more than many other countries, has learned by bitter experience. It is a lesson that can and should inform the foreign policy of the Federal Republic.", "tags": ["Berlin Wall", "World news", "Germany", "Europe", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Middle East and North Africa", "UK news", "Daniel Barenboim", "Music"], "title": "Germany must talk straight with Israel | Daniel Barenboim"},{"date": "2014-11-05T15:55:48Z", "country": "germany", "content": "New figures from Facebook show that the German government makes more requests for user data, relative to the size of its Facebook userbase, than any other.Despite the nation\u2019s reputation for protecting internet freedom, bolstered in the wake of the Edward Snowden revelations and the German government\u2019s response, Facebook\u2019s latest transparency report reveals that Germany made 2,537 requests for user data in the first half of 2014.With the country\u2019s Facebook population estimated at 22 million by eMarketer, that means the government made 115 requests for data for every million users. Those requests referenced 3,078 user accounts, but just a third of them led to some data being produced.Italy, America and France are the next three biggest sources of government requests, each producing around 100 requests per million users. Britain comes fifth of the 20 countries the Guardian studied, with 70 requests for data per million users.But requests from Britain and America are significantly more likely to be granted than those from mainland Europe; 71% and 80% of requests are granted, a success rate twice as high as that of Germany or France (where just 30% of requests lead to data being handed over).\u201cWe scrutinise every government request we receive for legal sufficiency under our terms and the strict letter of the law, and push back hard when we find deficiencies or are served with overly broad requests,\u201d said Facebook\u2019s deputy general counsel, Chris Sonderby.\u201cMore broadly, we continue to work with our industry and civil-society partners to push governments for additional transparency and to reform surveillance practices necessary to rebuild people\u2019s trust in the internet. While we recognise that governments need to take action to protect their citizens\u2019 safety and security, we believe all government data requests must be narrowly tailored, proportionate to the case in review, and subject to strict judicial oversight.\u201dAs well as requests for data, Facebook also revealed that access was restricted to nine pieces of content in the UK following court injunctions. In the US, no such content was restricted, while three countries \u2013 India, Turkey, and Pakistan \u2013 restricted access to more than a thousand pieces of content each, with India topping the censorship charts after imposing restrictions on 4,960 items. The country has the second-largest Facebook userbase after the USA.On Monday, the head of GCHQ argued that technology companies such as Facebook and its subsidiary WhatsApp were not doing enough to help western governments fight radical groups such as Isis. Writing in the Financial Times, Robert Hannigan described the social media services as \u201ccommand-and-control networks\u201d for insurgents and terrorists. Number 10 concurred, with a spokesman telling the Guardian that David Cameron \u201cvery much shares the view that is being expressed there around the use of web-enabled, internet-access technologies by violent and extremist groups among others, and the need to do more.\u201d\u2022 No 10 backs GCHQ chief\u2019s criticism of internet firms", "tags": ["Mark Zuckerberg", "Facebook", "Germany", "Internet", "Freedom of information", "Privacy", "Data and computer security", "Data protection", "Social networking", "Social media"], "title": "Germany tops table of Facebook data requests"},{"date": "2014-12-02T14:00:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Her face lights up briefly with the memory of it: \u201cShampoo and coffee! Only if you lived in the GDR would you know what those shops smelled like\u201d. I had asked about that socialist peculiarity \u2013 Intershops: hard currency stores that stocked things, like coffee, that hadn\u2019t otherwise been available in the German Democratic Republic. My guide was 10 when the Berlin Wall came down and she had mixed memories of socialist East Germany. She was showing me round her hometown of Eisenh\u00fcttenstadt, built from scratch in the early 1950s to house workers for the giant steel mill established there. Its wide boulevard of a main street leads straight to the steel mill, still functioning and billowing out white smoke but now downsized and owned by a corporation.It was the first of the new Soviet-inspired industrial combine towns to be built in eastern Europe. It was promoted as a socialist showcase and was called Stalinstadt until 1961. At its height the city was home to about 50,000 but now it was down to around 30,000: one of eastern Germany\u2019s shrinking cities.\u201cYou are my first tour in English,\u201d the guide admitted once we had identified ourselves at the slightly run-down two-track train station. The weather was a cold, grey drizzle threatening to get worse. The guide explained that usually some of the tour was walked but not today, so for the next couple of hours or so we hopped in and out of her Skoda. Our first stop was the tall, dark columnar Soviet war memorial. It marks a mass grave of more than 4,000 Soviet soldiers. During Stalin\u2019s time the official story was that they had died in battle. The truth was the vast majority died in a PoW camp.From there she took me to see some of the housing complexes, tall regular blocks built around generous areas of grass and trees with lots of benches and little bronze statues. The creamy-coloured blocks were built one after another as the population grew; each one had to be built \u201cfaster and cheaper\u201d than the last one to keep up with demand. The guide pointed out the changing architecture from Stalinist neoclassicism to motifs based on Grimm\u2019s fairytales: a reflection in itself of the complicated politics of the GDR in its 40 or so years of existence.\u201cI love my town,\u201d the guide explained. Since 1989 decline had really set in. It was hard for her to see the place dying: boarded up blocks and phased closing down of others, but she was hopeful. Eisenh\u00fcttenstadt has been given heritage status; surviving buildings were being renovated; the gardens and squares tidied up. The numerous small bronze statues are restored: a wild boar here, a mother with a child there, and an elegant dancer-like figure gracing a pathway. The Trabant car showroom is now a bright yellow bakery, the Activist Restaurant a pub. The last thing she points out is the huge mosaic of a giant hand releasing a dove that continues to overlook the main street.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Germany"], "title": "Letter from Germany: shrinking city"},{"date": "2014-11-09T17:42:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Twenty-five years after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the international community faces an unprecedented set of challenges. The headlines and our collective awareness are dominated by famines, crises such as the Ebola epidemic and countless centres of conflict in the Middle East, Africa and Eastern Europe. The world seems as helpless as ever and our governments are split over how to solve the problems. Millions of people worldwide are on the move, fleeing war, hunger, repression and poverty, and European countries, in particular Germany, appear to them to be the last safe refuge. The challenge facing rich western nations is a moral as well as a social one.The 25th anniversary of the fall of the wall is a fitting moment to reflect on the state of the world today and on the responsibility borne by Europe as a whole and specifically by Germany, which has now been a reunified country for a quarter of a century.The collapse of the Soviet Union and the resulting prospect of a new world order marked the end of a precarious equilibrium and the beginning of an apparent unipolarity dominated by the west \u2013 first and foremost the US, followed by the countries of Europe. As western democratic and capitalistic systems had prevailed, this might have produced a clear and undisputed hegemony, which could have moulded the international politics of the new era. Instead, the west was unable to make good its claim to be a global leader. Through lack of unity, unhealthy ideological triumphalism and moral failure in international crises such as the Rwandan genocide and the invasion of Iraq with the ensuing scandals of Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo Bay, the US in particular gradually forfeited the moral and political authority that it had built up so successfully in Europe with the Marshall plan after the second world war.The capitalist system, too, has its faults and the opportunity to create a new and viable one incorporating the positive aspects of socialism, capitalism and democracy was not seized. The attacks of 11 September and the subsequent war on terror, which plunged an entire region into an interminable crisis, demonstrated that the west\u2019s position of power had changed drastically.Today the world appears rudderless. Even small, ostensibly local, conflicts quickly grow and spread out of control. September\u00a011 and its repercussions, the wars in the Middle East, the Ukraine conflict; all this would have been unthinkable if the west had found a new balance and lived up to its responsibilities after the cold war. Instead, there is now an international power vacuum. I am convinced that Europe in general and Germany in particular should shoulder more of the burden in these difficult times.For a long time \u2013 and doubtless for good reasons \u2013 Germany has declined a leadership role, preferring a policy based on consensus and cooperation, especially where the European Union is concerned. In the future, too, Germany should not go it alone, yet it can still take a more active part in foreign affairs than it has up to now.The successful reconstruction of Germany after the second world war was only possible with international help. This begets responsibility \u2013 and no country is more aware of this than the Federal Republic. She is now in a position to provide long-term and credible assistance to the many suffering and fleeing people of the world, and she should do so. Recent German history is a tale of the success of democracy and it is incumbent on this country to give other states and peoples a chance to rebuild their nations and lives.I have lived as a Jew in Berlin for the past 23 years, something that would not have been possible if I did not believe that the Germans had thought long and hard about their past. No one else has managed to do this to the extent the Germans have, and I admire them for it. But this chapter of self-reflection should also have an impact on foreign policy.Germany\u2019s approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a diminutive one. It does not want to inflame sensibilities over its relations with Israel. However, if there is to be a solution to the conflict, Germany must play some role and exert some form of influence on Israeli policy. Germany can and should put political pressure on Israel. After all, we are talking here about the intellectual and political future of the state of Israel. The logic is simple: Germany is committed to the ongoing security of the state of Israel, but this is only possible in the long term if the future of the Palestinian people, too, is secured in its own sovereign state. If this does not happen, the wars and history of that region will be constantly repeated and the unbearable stalemate will continue.One man was under no illusion of this \u2013 the Israeli prime minister, Yitzhak Rabin: \u201cI was a soldier and I know that Israel can win wars with Syria, Lebanon and Egypt and maybe even beat them all at the same time. But Israel cannot win a war against the Palestinian people. My first duty is to protect the security of the Israeli people and I can only meet this obligation if we make peace with the Palestinians.\u201d It was this publicly expressed opinion that sadly cost Rabin his life.Germany\u2019s task, as a leading country of the world, is to make precisely this fact plain to the government of Israel \u2013 that Israel\u2019s lasting future depends on its government\u2019s willingness to enter into a genuine peace agreement with the Palestinians. That this also goes for the Palestinians grouped around Hamas hardly needs to be stressed. Both sides have to understand that they must live together for better or worse and that hatred, terror and territorial, ethnic and religious exclusion have never produced peace, but rather have led to killing and more killing. That, too, is a lesson that Germany, more than many other countries, has learned by bitter experience. It is a lesson that can and should inform the foreign policy of the Federal Republic.", "tags": ["Berlin Wall", "World news", "Germany", "Europe", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Middle East and North Africa", "UK news", "Daniel Barenboim", "Music"], "title": "Germany must talk straight with Israel | Daniel Barenboim"},{"date": "2014-11-05T15:55:48Z", "country": "germany", "content": "New figures from Facebook show that the German government makes more requests for user data, relative to the size of its Facebook userbase, than any other.Despite the nation\u2019s reputation for protecting internet freedom, bolstered in the wake of the Edward Snowden revelations and the German government\u2019s response, Facebook\u2019s latest transparency report reveals that Germany made 2,537 requests for user data in the first half of 2014.With the country\u2019s Facebook population estimated at 22 million by eMarketer, that means the government made 115 requests for data for every million users. Those requests referenced 3,078 user accounts, but just a third of them led to some data being produced.Italy, America and France are the next three biggest sources of government requests, each producing around 100 requests per million users. Britain comes fifth of the 20 countries the Guardian studied, with 70 requests for data per million users.But requests from Britain and America are significantly more likely to be granted than those from mainland Europe; 71% and 80% of requests are granted, a success rate twice as high as that of Germany or France (where just 30% of requests lead to data being handed over).\u201cWe scrutinise every government request we receive for legal sufficiency under our terms and the strict letter of the law, and push back hard when we find deficiencies or are served with overly broad requests,\u201d said Facebook\u2019s deputy general counsel, Chris Sonderby.\u201cMore broadly, we continue to work with our industry and civil-society partners to push governments for additional transparency and to reform surveillance practices necessary to rebuild people\u2019s trust in the internet. While we recognise that governments need to take action to protect their citizens\u2019 safety and security, we believe all government data requests must be narrowly tailored, proportionate to the case in review, and subject to strict judicial oversight.\u201dAs well as requests for data, Facebook also revealed that access was restricted to nine pieces of content in the UK following court injunctions. In the US, no such content was restricted, while three countries \u2013 India, Turkey, and Pakistan \u2013 restricted access to more than a thousand pieces of content each, with India topping the censorship charts after imposing restrictions on 4,960 items. The country has the second-largest Facebook userbase after the USA.On Monday, the head of GCHQ argued that technology companies such as Facebook and its subsidiary WhatsApp were not doing enough to help western governments fight radical groups such as Isis. Writing in the Financial Times, Robert Hannigan described the social media services as \u201ccommand-and-control networks\u201d for insurgents and terrorists. Number 10 concurred, with a spokesman telling the Guardian that David Cameron \u201cvery much shares the view that is being expressed there around the use of web-enabled, internet-access technologies by violent and extremist groups among others, and the need to do more.\u201d\u2022 No 10 backs GCHQ chief\u2019s criticism of internet firms", "tags": ["Mark Zuckerberg", "Facebook", "Germany", "Internet", "Freedom of information", "Privacy", "Data and computer security", "Data protection", "Social networking", "Social media"], "title": "Germany tops table of Facebook data requests"},{"date": "2014-10-03T18:17:17Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Professor Tom Lodge (Letters, 3 October) disputes the statement in my letter (1 October) that \u201cthe Stasi did not ...torture its perceived enemies, even if it was often heavy-handed and unjust\u201d. He quotes Anna Funder\u2019s Stasiland \u2013 the one book invariably quoted, although written by an Australian, now resident in the US, and based entirely on second-hand evidence. Lodge says the \u201ctorture facilities\u201d in the Hohensch\u00f6nhausen prison were \u201cpurpose-built by the Russians\u201d. It was certainly used as a prison and transit camp by the Russians for Nazis at the end of the war and was later taken over and extended by the GDR in the 1950s. \u201cIn this place,\u201d Lodge says, \u201ctorture was routine and systematic.\u201dWhile I don\u2019t want to become drawn into defending the state security forces of the GDR, which were certainly very often an oppressive and ugly organisation, I do still dispute that \u201ctorture was systematic and routine\u201d. There is a significant difference between harsh prison conditions and torture as a technique of interrogation and oppression, but by comparison with the Nazis, or even the US use of water-boarding and hooding etc, there is little evidence of the Stasi being as bad or worse.Well-known GDR dissidents, like the environmentalist Rudolf Bahro, the publisher Walter Janka, the philosopher Wolfgang Harich and artist B\u00e4rbel Bohley, were imprisoned in Hohensch\u00f6nhausen in unjustifiable and harsh conditions, but none, as far as I am aware, alleged any form of horrific torture. While the Federal Republic was extremely reticent after the war in condemning the Nazis for the horrors they committed, and even gave many of the perpetrators their jobs back, it is determined to demonise the GDR, not simply to confront its failings or forms of oppression, but to vilify the whole idea of an alternative and socialist German state.John GreenLondon", "tags": ["Germany", "Torture"], "title": "Reality of oppression in East Germany  @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-12-02T14:00:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Her face lights up briefly with the memory of it: \u201cShampoo and coffee! Only if you lived in the GDR would you know what those shops smelled like\u201d. I had asked about that socialist peculiarity \u2013 Intershops: hard currency stores that stocked things, like coffee, that hadn\u2019t otherwise been available in the German Democratic Republic. My guide was 10 when the Berlin Wall came down and she had mixed memories of socialist East Germany. She was showing me round her hometown of Eisenh\u00fcttenstadt, built from scratch in the early 1950s to house workers for the giant steel mill established there. Its wide boulevard of a main street leads straight to the steel mill, still functioning and billowing out white smoke but now downsized and owned by a corporation.It was the first of the new Soviet-inspired industrial combine towns to be built in eastern Europe. It was promoted as a socialist showcase and was called Stalinstadt until 1961. At its height the city was home to about 50,000 but now it was down to around 30,000: one of eastern Germany\u2019s shrinking cities.\u201cYou are my first tour in English,\u201d the guide admitted once we had identified ourselves at the slightly run-down two-track train station. The weather was a cold, grey drizzle threatening to get worse. The guide explained that usually some of the tour was walked but not today, so for the next couple of hours or so we hopped in and out of her Skoda. Our first stop was the tall, dark columnar Soviet war memorial. It marks a mass grave of more than 4,000 Soviet soldiers. During Stalin\u2019s time the official story was that they had died in battle. The truth was the vast majority died in a PoW camp.From there she took me to see some of the housing complexes, tall regular blocks built around generous areas of grass and trees with lots of benches and little bronze statues. The creamy-coloured blocks were built one after another as the population grew; each one had to be built \u201cfaster and cheaper\u201d than the last one to keep up with demand. The guide pointed out the changing architecture from Stalinist neoclassicism to motifs based on Grimm\u2019s fairytales: a reflection in itself of the complicated politics of the GDR in its 40 or so years of existence.\u201cI love my town,\u201d the guide explained. Since 1989 decline had really set in. It was hard for her to see the place dying: boarded up blocks and phased closing down of others, but she was hopeful. Eisenh\u00fcttenstadt has been given heritage status; surviving buildings were being renovated; the gardens and squares tidied up. The numerous small bronze statues are restored: a wild boar here, a mother with a child there, and an elegant dancer-like figure gracing a pathway. The Trabant car showroom is now a bright yellow bakery, the Activist Restaurant a pub. The last thing she points out is the huge mosaic of a giant hand releasing a dove that continues to overlook the main street.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Germany"], "title": "Letter from Germany: shrinking city"},{"date": "2014-11-09T17:42:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Twenty-five years after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the international community faces an unprecedented set of challenges. The headlines and our collective awareness are dominated by famines, crises such as the Ebola epidemic and countless centres of conflict in the Middle East, Africa and Eastern Europe. The world seems as helpless as ever and our governments are split over how to solve the problems. Millions of people worldwide are on the move, fleeing war, hunger, repression and poverty, and European countries, in particular Germany, appear to them to be the last safe refuge. The challenge facing rich western nations is a moral as well as a social one.The 25th anniversary of the fall of the wall is a fitting moment to reflect on the state of the world today and on the responsibility borne by Europe as a whole and specifically by Germany, which has now been a reunified country for a quarter of a century.The collapse of the Soviet Union and the resulting prospect of a new world order marked the end of a precarious equilibrium and the beginning of an apparent unipolarity dominated by the west \u2013 first and foremost the US, followed by the countries of Europe. As western democratic and capitalistic systems had prevailed, this might have produced a clear and undisputed hegemony, which could have moulded the international politics of the new era. Instead, the west was unable to make good its claim to be a global leader. Through lack of unity, unhealthy ideological triumphalism and moral failure in international crises such as the Rwandan genocide and the invasion of Iraq with the ensuing scandals of Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo Bay, the US in particular gradually forfeited the moral and political authority that it had built up so successfully in Europe with the Marshall plan after the second world war.The capitalist system, too, has its faults and the opportunity to create a new and viable one incorporating the positive aspects of socialism, capitalism and democracy was not seized. The attacks of 11 September and the subsequent war on terror, which plunged an entire region into an interminable crisis, demonstrated that the west\u2019s position of power had changed drastically.Today the world appears rudderless. Even small, ostensibly local, conflicts quickly grow and spread out of control. September\u00a011 and its repercussions, the wars in the Middle East, the Ukraine conflict; all this would have been unthinkable if the west had found a new balance and lived up to its responsibilities after the cold war. Instead, there is now an international power vacuum. I am convinced that Europe in general and Germany in particular should shoulder more of the burden in these difficult times.For a long time \u2013 and doubtless for good reasons \u2013 Germany has declined a leadership role, preferring a policy based on consensus and cooperation, especially where the European Union is concerned. In the future, too, Germany should not go it alone, yet it can still take a more active part in foreign affairs than it has up to now.The successful reconstruction of Germany after the second world war was only possible with international help. This begets responsibility \u2013 and no country is more aware of this than the Federal Republic. She is now in a position to provide long-term and credible assistance to the many suffering and fleeing people of the world, and she should do so. Recent German history is a tale of the success of democracy and it is incumbent on this country to give other states and peoples a chance to rebuild their nations and lives.I have lived as a Jew in Berlin for the past 23 years, something that would not have been possible if I did not believe that the Germans had thought long and hard about their past. No one else has managed to do this to the extent the Germans have, and I admire them for it. But this chapter of self-reflection should also have an impact on foreign policy.Germany\u2019s approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a diminutive one. It does not want to inflame sensibilities over its relations with Israel. However, if there is to be a solution to the conflict, Germany must play some role and exert some form of influence on Israeli policy. Germany can and should put political pressure on Israel. After all, we are talking here about the intellectual and political future of the state of Israel. The logic is simple: Germany is committed to the ongoing security of the state of Israel, but this is only possible in the long term if the future of the Palestinian people, too, is secured in its own sovereign state. If this does not happen, the wars and history of that region will be constantly repeated and the unbearable stalemate will continue.One man was under no illusion of this \u2013 the Israeli prime minister, Yitzhak Rabin: \u201cI was a soldier and I know that Israel can win wars with Syria, Lebanon and Egypt and maybe even beat them all at the same time. But Israel cannot win a war against the Palestinian people. My first duty is to protect the security of the Israeli people and I can only meet this obligation if we make peace with the Palestinians.\u201d It was this publicly expressed opinion that sadly cost Rabin his life.Germany\u2019s task, as a leading country of the world, is to make precisely this fact plain to the government of Israel \u2013 that Israel\u2019s lasting future depends on its government\u2019s willingness to enter into a genuine peace agreement with the Palestinians. That this also goes for the Palestinians grouped around Hamas hardly needs to be stressed. Both sides have to understand that they must live together for better or worse and that hatred, terror and territorial, ethnic and religious exclusion have never produced peace, but rather have led to killing and more killing. That, too, is a lesson that Germany, more than many other countries, has learned by bitter experience. It is a lesson that can and should inform the foreign policy of the Federal Republic.", "tags": ["Berlin Wall", "World news", "Germany", "Europe", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Middle East and North Africa", "UK news", "Daniel Barenboim", "Music"], "title": "Germany must talk straight with Israel | Daniel Barenboim"},{"date": "2014-11-05T15:55:48Z", "country": "germany", "content": "New figures from Facebook show that the German government makes more requests for user data, relative to the size of its Facebook userbase, than any other.Despite the nation\u2019s reputation for protecting internet freedom, bolstered in the wake of the Edward Snowden revelations and the German government\u2019s response, Facebook\u2019s latest transparency report reveals that Germany made 2,537 requests for user data in the first half of 2014.With the country\u2019s Facebook population estimated at 22 million by eMarketer, that means the government made 115 requests for data for every million users. Those requests referenced 3,078 user accounts, but just a third of them led to some data being produced.Italy, America and France are the next three biggest sources of government requests, each producing around 100 requests per million users. Britain comes fifth of the 20 countries the Guardian studied, with 70 requests for data per million users.But requests from Britain and America are significantly more likely to be granted than those from mainland Europe; 71% and 80% of requests are granted, a success rate twice as high as that of Germany or France (where just 30% of requests lead to data being handed over).\u201cWe scrutinise every government request we receive for legal sufficiency under our terms and the strict letter of the law, and push back hard when we find deficiencies or are served with overly broad requests,\u201d said Facebook\u2019s deputy general counsel, Chris Sonderby.\u201cMore broadly, we continue to work with our industry and civil-society partners to push governments for additional transparency and to reform surveillance practices necessary to rebuild people\u2019s trust in the internet. While we recognise that governments need to take action to protect their citizens\u2019 safety and security, we believe all government data requests must be narrowly tailored, proportionate to the case in review, and subject to strict judicial oversight.\u201dAs well as requests for data, Facebook also revealed that access was restricted to nine pieces of content in the UK following court injunctions. In the US, no such content was restricted, while three countries \u2013 India, Turkey, and Pakistan \u2013 restricted access to more than a thousand pieces of content each, with India topping the censorship charts after imposing restrictions on 4,960 items. The country has the second-largest Facebook userbase after the USA.On Monday, the head of GCHQ argued that technology companies such as Facebook and its subsidiary WhatsApp were not doing enough to help western governments fight radical groups such as Isis. Writing in the Financial Times, Robert Hannigan described the social media services as \u201ccommand-and-control networks\u201d for insurgents and terrorists. Number 10 concurred, with a spokesman telling the Guardian that David Cameron \u201cvery much shares the view that is being expressed there around the use of web-enabled, internet-access technologies by violent and extremist groups among others, and the need to do more.\u201d\u2022 No 10 backs GCHQ chief\u2019s criticism of internet firms", "tags": ["Mark Zuckerberg", "Facebook", "Germany", "Internet", "Freedom of information", "Privacy", "Data and computer security", "Data protection", "Social networking", "Social media"], "title": "Germany tops table of Facebook data requests"},{"date": "2014-10-03T18:17:17Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Professor Tom Lodge (Letters, 3 October) disputes the statement in my letter (1 October) that \u201cthe Stasi did not ...torture its perceived enemies, even if it was often heavy-handed and unjust\u201d. He quotes Anna Funder\u2019s Stasiland \u2013 the one book invariably quoted, although written by an Australian, now resident in the US, and based entirely on second-hand evidence. Lodge says the \u201ctorture facilities\u201d in the Hohensch\u00f6nhausen prison were \u201cpurpose-built by the Russians\u201d. It was certainly used as a prison and transit camp by the Russians for Nazis at the end of the war and was later taken over and extended by the GDR in the 1950s. \u201cIn this place,\u201d Lodge says, \u201ctorture was routine and systematic.\u201dWhile I don\u2019t want to become drawn into defending the state security forces of the GDR, which were certainly very often an oppressive and ugly organisation, I do still dispute that \u201ctorture was systematic and routine\u201d. There is a significant difference between harsh prison conditions and torture as a technique of interrogation and oppression, but by comparison with the Nazis, or even the US use of water-boarding and hooding etc, there is little evidence of the Stasi being as bad or worse.Well-known GDR dissidents, like the environmentalist Rudolf Bahro, the publisher Walter Janka, the philosopher Wolfgang Harich and artist B\u00e4rbel Bohley, were imprisoned in Hohensch\u00f6nhausen in unjustifiable and harsh conditions, but none, as far as I am aware, alleged any form of horrific torture. While the Federal Republic was extremely reticent after the war in condemning the Nazis for the horrors they committed, and even gave many of the perpetrators their jobs back, it is determined to demonise the GDR, not simply to confront its failings or forms of oppression, but to vilify the whole idea of an alternative and socialist German state.John GreenLondon", "tags": ["Germany", "Torture"], "title": "Reality of oppression in East Germany  @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-12-17T17:57:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Bilbo Baggins showed stout legs on the last stage of his journey, The Battle of the Five Armies, picking up $122.2m (\u00a378m) in 38 territories. That might look to be down on overseas openings for the previous instalments, An Unexpected Journey ($138m) and Desolation of Smaug ($135.4m), but it unrolled in nearly 10 fewer markets, so no cause for alarm. With methodical marketing that has emphasised the film as not only the culmination of the trilogy, but of 17 years on Tolkien duty for director Peter Jackson, it would be quite a shock if the film didn\u2019t see a rally from Desolation of Smaug\u2019s $958.4m worldwide take (a predictable middle-instalment slip from the first\u2019s $1.01bn). Next week\u2019s US opening will have a big say \u2013 perhaps why Warner opted to open the film internationally first, in order to reinforce the sense of a universal phenomenon that will fire up easily jaded American audiences. Five Armies would have to take $1.11bn to rule them all in terms of the entire Middle Earth sextet \u2013 that was Return of the King\u2019s eventual total, making it the eighth highest-grossing film of all time.In terms of individual countries, Five Armies is doing best-ever Hobbit business in the UK, France, Mexico, New Zealand, probably in Russia (where admissions are high, but the rouble crisis is depressing its dollar-take) and, most resoundingly, in Germany. There, its $20.5m debut is not only a series high ($15m: Unexpected; $19m: Desolation), it\u2019s also topped the 2014 openings chart by some distance. Germany was the most lucrative non-US market, ahead, surprisingly, of the UK, for both of the other two Hobbit movies; a nice nod to the northern European cultural roots of JRR Tolkien\u2019s original myth-making.US film-goers didn\u2019t exactly flock to Ridley Scott and Christian Bale\u2019s standard this weekend, with their Moses epic Exodus: Gods and Kings managing a half-hearted $24.1m at first pass. That\u2019s significantly short of the more radical Noah\u2019s $43.7m in March, $25.6m for Fox\u2019s Jesus outing Son of God in February \u2013 let alone the $83.8m for Passion of the Christ, which was in Aramaic, for you-know-who\u2019s sake. Thirty per cent of Exodus\u2019s audience identified themselves as \u201cvery religious\u201d, and distributor Fox will need them to continue turning out to bulk up box office over the Christmas season. But given that Noah rode out many squalls about its unorthodox spin on the Bible to an eventual $362.6m worldwide, whereas the only flak Exodus has received has been about its racial casting policy, perhaps Scott should have been more adventurous story-wise. Currently on $73.7m across all territories, it\u2019s not holding up especially well in the spate of Christian-dominated countries it kicked off in last week: -49% in South Korea, -53% in Spain, -53% in Mexico (even with The Hobbit yet to open in those three). Turkey and Israel opened, both down on Noah, this week \u2013 the most significant among a scattering of minor territories before most of western Europe and the Middle East weighs in around Christmas Day.That was the name invoked in a fair few reviews for Chris Rock\u2019s third directorial effort Top Five, in which Woody-ish New York amblings and musings happen to comedian-actor Andre Allen (played by Rock) in the company of a beautiful journalist (Rosario Dawson) who spins his life around. Critics seem to agree that the film \u2013 staffed by superior talent, including director of photography Manuel Alberto Claro (Nymphomaniac), producers Jay Z and Kanye West and executive music producer Questlove (of the Roots) \u2013 is a cut above mainstream African-American output, tempering the typical raucous comedy with greater control and character subtleties. Rock also \u2013 like a certain Jewish icon \u2013 cannily refracts his leading role through the prism of his own star persona. And his huge fanbase almost appears to give him the edge in box-office terms over Allen in the US: $6.9m is far higher than any of the legend\u2019s openings (the best being $3.9m for Small Time Crooks), though inflation-corrected results for some of Allen\u2019s canonic works might rearrange the picture. Allen, though, isn\u2019t limited by a strongly ethnic fanbase, which has allowed him to notch up some significant worldwide tallies, especially recently (Midnight in Paris: $151.1m; Blue Jasmine: $97.5m). It\u2019s an exciting prospect that an African-American director could widen his appeal beyond his immediate constituency to land on similar levels of success: Top Five will get a limited release in mostly English-speaking countries early next year, which is a start. Now all Rock has to do is put in a hot-streak to match the one Allen enjoyed in the 70s and 80s.There was no Rentrak data for India or China this week, which meant that weekend one for Rajinikanth\u2019s Tamil blockbuster Lingaa and weekend two for barnstorming Chinese schooldays drama Fleet of Time were a little hazy. There\u2019s been initial speculation that Lingaa had taken 102 crore ($16.2m), which would make it the fastest Tamil film to pass the 100-crore mark \u2013 but India\u2019s sketchy box-office reporting systems have thrown up much dust around that claim. Zhang Yibai\u2019s Fleet of Time looks to have reached an impressive $72.61m over its first week, closing the gap on Vicky Zhao\u2019s So Young, the film that started off the nostalgic college-days drama fad in 2013 and earned $116m. The two new international newcomers we do know about are Korean indie documentary My Love, Don\u2019t Cross That River, in 11th place globally; and Italian comedy Il Ricco, Il Povero e Il Maggiordomo (The Rich, The Poor and the Butler), in 15th place. Having opened two weeks ago and expanded massively since to climb up the charts in South Korea, the former follows a 98-year-old and an 89-year-old who have been married for 76 years. It\u2019s currently outpacing Interstellar and Exodus there \u2013 now that is what you call stamina.Five Armies plants its hairy toes even further afield, including the US in mid-week and locales \u2013 such as South Korea and Spain \u2013 where it was ducking a first-week clash with Exodus. The big children\u2019s release for Christmas, a third Night at the Museum in the company of Ben Stiller, is wheeled out in about 30 markets, including the UK, Italy, Germany and most of the Middle East. Disney\u2019s manga-inflected Big Hero 6 has been hanging around the top 10 for nearly six weeks, and has quietly been amassing records for an animation in smaller Asian countries; its crosscultural ambitions get their first real test with a Japanese and Hong Kong release next frame. With other big markets en route (Italy, Spain, Brazil, Australia, South Africa before 2015), it should push on rapidly from an already sizeable global pot of $253.5m. In India and around the diaspora, Rajinikanth \u2013 who apparently also has a Japanese following \u2013 will be forced to step up to fellow titan Aamir Khan\u2019s latest film PK; Khan\u2019s Dhoom 3, from 2013, is the current worldwide Bollywood champion, a title previously held by his 3 Idiots, from 2009, and a whopping box-office dent is expected of PK. Talking of great expectations, actor-director Jiang Wen will be hoping to reclaim the Chinese local-film box-office record once held by his period comedy western Let the Bullets Fly. His newbie, Gone With the Bullets \u2013 an urban action-comedy this time centred around a 1920s Shanghai beauty pageant \u2013 had a spot of bother with the censors that nixed its premiere, but will open on schedule on Thursday. Costing $20m more than its precedessor at $48.8m, with involvement from Sony, it\u2019s another example of how budgets in China are ballooning in tandem with box office.1. (New) The Hobbit: The Battle of Five Armies, $122.2m from 38 territories \u2013 100% international2. Exodus: Gods and Kings, $42.3m from 28 territories. $73.7m cumulative \u2013 67.2% int; 32.8% US3. The Hunger Games: Mockingjay, Part 1, $29.2m from 87 territories. $611.4m cum \u2013 54.6% int; 45.4% US4. Penguins of Madagascar, $22m from 52 territories. $175.5m cum \u2013 66.5% int; 33.5% US5. Interstellar, $16.9m from 63 territories. $621.8m cum \u2013 73.2% int; 26.8% US6. Paddington, $11m from 23 territories. $45m cum \u2013 100% int7. Horrible Bosses 2, $10.5m from 51 territories. $75.9m cum \u2013 42.6% int; 57.4% US8. Big Hero 6, $10m from 33 territories. $253.5m cum \u2013 26.9% int; 73.1% US9. (New) Top Five, $6.9m from 1 territory \u2013 100% US10. Dumb and Dumber To, $5m from 23 territories. $131.1m cum \u2013 37.4% int; 62.6% US\u2022 Thanks to Rentrak. Some of this week\u2019s figures are based on estimates; all historical figures unadjusted, unless otherwise stated.", "tags": ["Culture", "Film", "The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies", "Top Five", "Exodus: Gods and Kings", "Peter Jackson", "Ridley Scott", "Woody Allen", "Big Hero 6"], "title": "Germany can't kick the Hobbit: Bilbophilia sweeps Europe"},{"date": "2014-12-02T14:00:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Her face lights up briefly with the memory of it: \u201cShampoo and coffee! Only if you lived in the GDR would you know what those shops smelled like\u201d. I had asked about that socialist peculiarity \u2013 Intershops: hard currency stores that stocked things, like coffee, that hadn\u2019t otherwise been available in the German Democratic Republic. My guide was 10 when the Berlin Wall came down and she had mixed memories of socialist East Germany. She was showing me round her hometown of Eisenh\u00fcttenstadt, built from scratch in the early 1950s to house workers for the giant steel mill established there. Its wide boulevard of a main street leads straight to the steel mill, still functioning and billowing out white smoke but now downsized and owned by a corporation.It was the first of the new Soviet-inspired industrial combine towns to be built in eastern Europe. It was promoted as a socialist showcase and was called Stalinstadt until 1961. At its height the city was home to about 50,000 but now it was down to around 30,000: one of eastern Germany\u2019s shrinking cities.\u201cYou are my first tour in English,\u201d the guide admitted once we had identified ourselves at the slightly run-down two-track train station. The weather was a cold, grey drizzle threatening to get worse. The guide explained that usually some of the tour was walked but not today, so for the next couple of hours or so we hopped in and out of her Skoda. Our first stop was the tall, dark columnar Soviet war memorial. It marks a mass grave of more than 4,000 Soviet soldiers. During Stalin\u2019s time the official story was that they had died in battle. The truth was the vast majority died in a PoW camp.From there she took me to see some of the housing complexes, tall regular blocks built around generous areas of grass and trees with lots of benches and little bronze statues. The creamy-coloured blocks were built one after another as the population grew; each one had to be built \u201cfaster and cheaper\u201d than the last one to keep up with demand. The guide pointed out the changing architecture from Stalinist neoclassicism to motifs based on Grimm\u2019s fairytales: a reflection in itself of the complicated politics of the GDR in its 40 or so years of existence.\u201cI love my town,\u201d the guide explained. Since 1989 decline had really set in. It was hard for her to see the place dying: boarded up blocks and phased closing down of others, but she was hopeful. Eisenh\u00fcttenstadt has been given heritage status; surviving buildings were being renovated; the gardens and squares tidied up. The numerous small bronze statues are restored: a wild boar here, a mother with a child there, and an elegant dancer-like figure gracing a pathway. The Trabant car showroom is now a bright yellow bakery, the Activist Restaurant a pub. The last thing she points out is the huge mosaic of a giant hand releasing a dove that continues to overlook the main street.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Germany"], "title": "Letter from Germany: shrinking city"},{"date": "2014-11-09T17:42:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Twenty-five years after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the international community faces an unprecedented set of challenges. The headlines and our collective awareness are dominated by famines, crises such as the Ebola epidemic and countless centres of conflict in the Middle East, Africa and Eastern Europe. The world seems as helpless as ever and our governments are split over how to solve the problems. Millions of people worldwide are on the move, fleeing war, hunger, repression and poverty, and European countries, in particular Germany, appear to them to be the last safe refuge. The challenge facing rich western nations is a moral as well as a social one.The 25th anniversary of the fall of the wall is a fitting moment to reflect on the state of the world today and on the responsibility borne by Europe as a whole and specifically by Germany, which has now been a reunified country for a quarter of a century.The collapse of the Soviet Union and the resulting prospect of a new world order marked the end of a precarious equilibrium and the beginning of an apparent unipolarity dominated by the west \u2013 first and foremost the US, followed by the countries of Europe. As western democratic and capitalistic systems had prevailed, this might have produced a clear and undisputed hegemony, which could have moulded the international politics of the new era. Instead, the west was unable to make good its claim to be a global leader. Through lack of unity, unhealthy ideological triumphalism and moral failure in international crises such as the Rwandan genocide and the invasion of Iraq with the ensuing scandals of Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo Bay, the US in particular gradually forfeited the moral and political authority that it had built up so successfully in Europe with the Marshall plan after the second world war.The capitalist system, too, has its faults and the opportunity to create a new and viable one incorporating the positive aspects of socialism, capitalism and democracy was not seized. The attacks of 11 September and the subsequent war on terror, which plunged an entire region into an interminable crisis, demonstrated that the west\u2019s position of power had changed drastically.Today the world appears rudderless. Even small, ostensibly local, conflicts quickly grow and spread out of control. September\u00a011 and its repercussions, the wars in the Middle East, the Ukraine conflict; all this would have been unthinkable if the west had found a new balance and lived up to its responsibilities after the cold war. Instead, there is now an international power vacuum. I am convinced that Europe in general and Germany in particular should shoulder more of the burden in these difficult times.For a long time \u2013 and doubtless for good reasons \u2013 Germany has declined a leadership role, preferring a policy based on consensus and cooperation, especially where the European Union is concerned. In the future, too, Germany should not go it alone, yet it can still take a more active part in foreign affairs than it has up to now.The successful reconstruction of Germany after the second world war was only possible with international help. This begets responsibility \u2013 and no country is more aware of this than the Federal Republic. She is now in a position to provide long-term and credible assistance to the many suffering and fleeing people of the world, and she should do so. Recent German history is a tale of the success of democracy and it is incumbent on this country to give other states and peoples a chance to rebuild their nations and lives.I have lived as a Jew in Berlin for the past 23 years, something that would not have been possible if I did not believe that the Germans had thought long and hard about their past. No one else has managed to do this to the extent the Germans have, and I admire them for it. But this chapter of self-reflection should also have an impact on foreign policy.Germany\u2019s approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a diminutive one. It does not want to inflame sensibilities over its relations with Israel. However, if there is to be a solution to the conflict, Germany must play some role and exert some form of influence on Israeli policy. Germany can and should put political pressure on Israel. After all, we are talking here about the intellectual and political future of the state of Israel. The logic is simple: Germany is committed to the ongoing security of the state of Israel, but this is only possible in the long term if the future of the Palestinian people, too, is secured in its own sovereign state. If this does not happen, the wars and history of that region will be constantly repeated and the unbearable stalemate will continue.One man was under no illusion of this \u2013 the Israeli prime minister, Yitzhak Rabin: \u201cI was a soldier and I know that Israel can win wars with Syria, Lebanon and Egypt and maybe even beat them all at the same time. But Israel cannot win a war against the Palestinian people. My first duty is to protect the security of the Israeli people and I can only meet this obligation if we make peace with the Palestinians.\u201d It was this publicly expressed opinion that sadly cost Rabin his life.Germany\u2019s task, as a leading country of the world, is to make precisely this fact plain to the government of Israel \u2013 that Israel\u2019s lasting future depends on its government\u2019s willingness to enter into a genuine peace agreement with the Palestinians. That this also goes for the Palestinians grouped around Hamas hardly needs to be stressed. Both sides have to understand that they must live together for better or worse and that hatred, terror and territorial, ethnic and religious exclusion have never produced peace, but rather have led to killing and more killing. That, too, is a lesson that Germany, more than many other countries, has learned by bitter experience. It is a lesson that can and should inform the foreign policy of the Federal Republic.", "tags": ["Berlin Wall", "World news", "Germany", "Europe", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Middle East and North Africa", "UK news", "Daniel Barenboim", "Music"], "title": "Germany must talk straight with Israel | Daniel Barenboim"},{"date": "2014-11-05T15:55:48Z", "country": "germany", "content": "New figures from Facebook show that the German government makes more requests for user data, relative to the size of its Facebook userbase, than any other.Despite the nation\u2019s reputation for protecting internet freedom, bolstered in the wake of the Edward Snowden revelations and the German government\u2019s response, Facebook\u2019s latest transparency report reveals that Germany made 2,537 requests for user data in the first half of 2014.With the country\u2019s Facebook population estimated at 22 million by eMarketer, that means the government made 115 requests for data for every million users. Those requests referenced 3,078 user accounts, but just a third of them led to some data being produced.Italy, America and France are the next three biggest sources of government requests, each producing around 100 requests per million users. Britain comes fifth of the 20 countries the Guardian studied, with 70 requests for data per million users.But requests from Britain and America are significantly more likely to be granted than those from mainland Europe; 71% and 80% of requests are granted, a success rate twice as high as that of Germany or France (where just 30% of requests lead to data being handed over).\u201cWe scrutinise every government request we receive for legal sufficiency under our terms and the strict letter of the law, and push back hard when we find deficiencies or are served with overly broad requests,\u201d said Facebook\u2019s deputy general counsel, Chris Sonderby.\u201cMore broadly, we continue to work with our industry and civil-society partners to push governments for additional transparency and to reform surveillance practices necessary to rebuild people\u2019s trust in the internet. While we recognise that governments need to take action to protect their citizens\u2019 safety and security, we believe all government data requests must be narrowly tailored, proportionate to the case in review, and subject to strict judicial oversight.\u201dAs well as requests for data, Facebook also revealed that access was restricted to nine pieces of content in the UK following court injunctions. In the US, no such content was restricted, while three countries \u2013 India, Turkey, and Pakistan \u2013 restricted access to more than a thousand pieces of content each, with India topping the censorship charts after imposing restrictions on 4,960 items. The country has the second-largest Facebook userbase after the USA.On Monday, the head of GCHQ argued that technology companies such as Facebook and its subsidiary WhatsApp were not doing enough to help western governments fight radical groups such as Isis. Writing in the Financial Times, Robert Hannigan described the social media services as \u201ccommand-and-control networks\u201d for insurgents and terrorists. Number 10 concurred, with a spokesman telling the Guardian that David Cameron \u201cvery much shares the view that is being expressed there around the use of web-enabled, internet-access technologies by violent and extremist groups among others, and the need to do more.\u201d\u2022 No 10 backs GCHQ chief\u2019s criticism of internet firms", "tags": ["Mark Zuckerberg", "Facebook", "Germany", "Internet", "Freedom of information", "Privacy", "Data and computer security", "Data protection", "Social networking", "Social media"], "title": "Germany tops table of Facebook data requests"},{"date": "2014-10-03T18:17:17Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Professor Tom Lodge (Letters, 3 October) disputes the statement in my letter (1 October) that \u201cthe Stasi did not ...torture its perceived enemies, even if it was often heavy-handed and unjust\u201d. He quotes Anna Funder\u2019s Stasiland \u2013 the one book invariably quoted, although written by an Australian, now resident in the US, and based entirely on second-hand evidence. Lodge says the \u201ctorture facilities\u201d in the Hohensch\u00f6nhausen prison were \u201cpurpose-built by the Russians\u201d. It was certainly used as a prison and transit camp by the Russians for Nazis at the end of the war and was later taken over and extended by the GDR in the 1950s. \u201cIn this place,\u201d Lodge says, \u201ctorture was routine and systematic.\u201dWhile I don\u2019t want to become drawn into defending the state security forces of the GDR, which were certainly very often an oppressive and ugly organisation, I do still dispute that \u201ctorture was systematic and routine\u201d. There is a significant difference between harsh prison conditions and torture as a technique of interrogation and oppression, but by comparison with the Nazis, or even the US use of water-boarding and hooding etc, there is little evidence of the Stasi being as bad or worse.Well-known GDR dissidents, like the environmentalist Rudolf Bahro, the publisher Walter Janka, the philosopher Wolfgang Harich and artist B\u00e4rbel Bohley, were imprisoned in Hohensch\u00f6nhausen in unjustifiable and harsh conditions, but none, as far as I am aware, alleged any form of horrific torture. While the Federal Republic was extremely reticent after the war in condemning the Nazis for the horrors they committed, and even gave many of the perpetrators their jobs back, it is determined to demonise the GDR, not simply to confront its failings or forms of oppression, but to vilify the whole idea of an alternative and socialist German state.John GreenLondon", "tags": ["Germany", "Torture"], "title": "Reality of oppression in East Germany  @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-12-17T17:57:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Bilbo Baggins showed stout legs on the last stage of his journey, The Battle of the Five Armies, picking up $122.2m (\u00a378m) in 38 territories. That might look to be down on overseas openings for the previous instalments, An Unexpected Journey ($138m) and Desolation of Smaug ($135.4m), but it unrolled in nearly 10 fewer markets, so no cause for alarm. With methodical marketing that has emphasised the film as not only the culmination of the trilogy, but of 17 years on Tolkien duty for director Peter Jackson, it would be quite a shock if the film didn\u2019t see a rally from Desolation of Smaug\u2019s $958.4m worldwide take (a predictable middle-instalment slip from the first\u2019s $1.01bn). Next week\u2019s US opening will have a big say \u2013 perhaps why Warner opted to open the film internationally first, in order to reinforce the sense of a universal phenomenon that will fire up easily jaded American audiences. Five Armies would have to take $1.11bn to rule them all in terms of the entire Middle Earth sextet \u2013 that was Return of the King\u2019s eventual total, making it the eighth highest-grossing film of all time.In terms of individual countries, Five Armies is doing best-ever Hobbit business in the UK, France, Mexico, New Zealand, probably in Russia (where admissions are high, but the rouble crisis is depressing its dollar-take) and, most resoundingly, in Germany. There, its $20.5m debut is not only a series high ($15m: Unexpected; $19m: Desolation), it\u2019s also topped the 2014 openings chart by some distance. Germany was the most lucrative non-US market, ahead, surprisingly, of the UK, for both of the other two Hobbit movies; a nice nod to the northern European cultural roots of JRR Tolkien\u2019s original myth-making.US film-goers didn\u2019t exactly flock to Ridley Scott and Christian Bale\u2019s standard this weekend, with their Moses epic Exodus: Gods and Kings managing a half-hearted $24.1m at first pass. That\u2019s significantly short of the more radical Noah\u2019s $43.7m in March, $25.6m for Fox\u2019s Jesus outing Son of God in February \u2013 let alone the $83.8m for Passion of the Christ, which was in Aramaic, for you-know-who\u2019s sake. Thirty per cent of Exodus\u2019s audience identified themselves as \u201cvery religious\u201d, and distributor Fox will need them to continue turning out to bulk up box office over the Christmas season. But given that Noah rode out many squalls about its unorthodox spin on the Bible to an eventual $362.6m worldwide, whereas the only flak Exodus has received has been about its racial casting policy, perhaps Scott should have been more adventurous story-wise. Currently on $73.7m across all territories, it\u2019s not holding up especially well in the spate of Christian-dominated countries it kicked off in last week: -49% in South Korea, -53% in Spain, -53% in Mexico (even with The Hobbit yet to open in those three). Turkey and Israel opened, both down on Noah, this week \u2013 the most significant among a scattering of minor territories before most of western Europe and the Middle East weighs in around Christmas Day.That was the name invoked in a fair few reviews for Chris Rock\u2019s third directorial effort Top Five, in which Woody-ish New York amblings and musings happen to comedian-actor Andre Allen (played by Rock) in the company of a beautiful journalist (Rosario Dawson) who spins his life around. Critics seem to agree that the film \u2013 staffed by superior talent, including director of photography Manuel Alberto Claro (Nymphomaniac), producers Jay Z and Kanye West and executive music producer Questlove (of the Roots) \u2013 is a cut above mainstream African-American output, tempering the typical raucous comedy with greater control and character subtleties. Rock also \u2013 like a certain Jewish icon \u2013 cannily refracts his leading role through the prism of his own star persona. And his huge fanbase almost appears to give him the edge in box-office terms over Allen in the US: $6.9m is far higher than any of the legend\u2019s openings (the best being $3.9m for Small Time Crooks), though inflation-corrected results for some of Allen\u2019s canonic works might rearrange the picture. Allen, though, isn\u2019t limited by a strongly ethnic fanbase, which has allowed him to notch up some significant worldwide tallies, especially recently (Midnight in Paris: $151.1m; Blue Jasmine: $97.5m). It\u2019s an exciting prospect that an African-American director could widen his appeal beyond his immediate constituency to land on similar levels of success: Top Five will get a limited release in mostly English-speaking countries early next year, which is a start. Now all Rock has to do is put in a hot-streak to match the one Allen enjoyed in the 70s and 80s.There was no Rentrak data for India or China this week, which meant that weekend one for Rajinikanth\u2019s Tamil blockbuster Lingaa and weekend two for barnstorming Chinese schooldays drama Fleet of Time were a little hazy. There\u2019s been initial speculation that Lingaa had taken 102 crore ($16.2m), which would make it the fastest Tamil film to pass the 100-crore mark \u2013 but India\u2019s sketchy box-office reporting systems have thrown up much dust around that claim. Zhang Yibai\u2019s Fleet of Time looks to have reached an impressive $72.61m over its first week, closing the gap on Vicky Zhao\u2019s So Young, the film that started off the nostalgic college-days drama fad in 2013 and earned $116m. The two new international newcomers we do know about are Korean indie documentary My Love, Don\u2019t Cross That River, in 11th place globally; and Italian comedy Il Ricco, Il Povero e Il Maggiordomo (The Rich, The Poor and the Butler), in 15th place. Having opened two weeks ago and expanded massively since to climb up the charts in South Korea, the former follows a 98-year-old and an 89-year-old who have been married for 76 years. It\u2019s currently outpacing Interstellar and Exodus there \u2013 now that is what you call stamina.Five Armies plants its hairy toes even further afield, including the US in mid-week and locales \u2013 such as South Korea and Spain \u2013 where it was ducking a first-week clash with Exodus. The big children\u2019s release for Christmas, a third Night at the Museum in the company of Ben Stiller, is wheeled out in about 30 markets, including the UK, Italy, Germany and most of the Middle East. Disney\u2019s manga-inflected Big Hero 6 has been hanging around the top 10 for nearly six weeks, and has quietly been amassing records for an animation in smaller Asian countries; its crosscultural ambitions get their first real test with a Japanese and Hong Kong release next frame. With other big markets en route (Italy, Spain, Brazil, Australia, South Africa before 2015), it should push on rapidly from an already sizeable global pot of $253.5m. In India and around the diaspora, Rajinikanth \u2013 who apparently also has a Japanese following \u2013 will be forced to step up to fellow titan Aamir Khan\u2019s latest film PK; Khan\u2019s Dhoom 3, from 2013, is the current worldwide Bollywood champion, a title previously held by his 3 Idiots, from 2009, and a whopping box-office dent is expected of PK. Talking of great expectations, actor-director Jiang Wen will be hoping to reclaim the Chinese local-film box-office record once held by his period comedy western Let the Bullets Fly. His newbie, Gone With the Bullets \u2013 an urban action-comedy this time centred around a 1920s Shanghai beauty pageant \u2013 had a spot of bother with the censors that nixed its premiere, but will open on schedule on Thursday. Costing $20m more than its precedessor at $48.8m, with involvement from Sony, it\u2019s another example of how budgets in China are ballooning in tandem with box office.1. (New) The Hobbit: The Battle of Five Armies, $122.2m from 38 territories \u2013 100% international2. Exodus: Gods and Kings, $42.3m from 28 territories. $73.7m cumulative \u2013 67.2% int; 32.8% US3. The Hunger Games: Mockingjay, Part 1, $29.2m from 87 territories. $611.4m cum \u2013 54.6% int; 45.4% US4. Penguins of Madagascar, $22m from 52 territories. $175.5m cum \u2013 66.5% int; 33.5% US5. Interstellar, $16.9m from 63 territories. $621.8m cum \u2013 73.2% int; 26.8% US6. Paddington, $11m from 23 territories. $45m cum \u2013 100% int7. Horrible Bosses 2, $10.5m from 51 territories. $75.9m cum \u2013 42.6% int; 57.4% US8. Big Hero 6, $10m from 33 territories. $253.5m cum \u2013 26.9% int; 73.1% US9. (New) Top Five, $6.9m from 1 territory \u2013 100% US10. Dumb and Dumber To, $5m from 23 territories. $131.1m cum \u2013 37.4% int; 62.6% US\u2022 Thanks to Rentrak. Some of this week\u2019s figures are based on estimates; all historical figures unadjusted, unless otherwise stated.", "tags": ["Culture", "Film", "The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies", "Top Five", "Exodus: Gods and Kings", "Peter Jackson", "Ridley Scott", "Woody Allen", "Big Hero 6"], "title": "Germany can't kick the Hobbit: Bilbophilia sweeps Europe"},{"date": "2014-12-12T12:54:59Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Attempts by opposition parties in Germany to bring Edward Snowden to Berlin to give evidence about the NSA\u2019s operations have been thwarted by the country\u2019s highest court.The Green and Left parties wanted the whistleblower to give evidence in person to a parliamentary committee investigating espionage by the US agency, but Germany\u2019s constitutional court ruled against them on Friday.The government has argued that Snowden\u2019s presence in Germany could impair relations with the US and put it under pressure to extradite him.It has suggested sending the committee \u2013 which consists of eight MPs \u2013 to interview him in Moscow, where Snowden is living in exile. Snowden has said through a lawyer that he is prepared to speak to the panel only if permitted to do so in Germany.Opposition MPs have been vocal about their wish for Snowden to be granted asylum in Germany, where anger towards the NSA and sympathy for the whistleblower has been particularly high.If Snowden were to be allowed to enter Germany, the clamour for him to be able to stay would be strong and resistance from the government would be likely to be met with civil unrest.Support for Snowden in Germany reached a peak after allegations came to light that Angela Merkel\u2019s phone was bugged. But Germany\u2019s top public prosecutor announced this week that an investigation had so far failed to find any firm evidence for the claim.Harald Range, who launched an investigation in June, did not rule out that it could be true, but said: \u201cThe document presented in public as proof of an authentic tapping of the mobile is not an authentic surveillance order by the NSA. There is no proof right now that could lead to charges that Chancellor Merkel\u2019s phone connection data was collected or her calls tapped.\u201dRange said the investigation would continue. He said that neither Snowden, the reporter for Spiegel magazine who was in possession of a document that appeared to be evidence of tapping, nor Germany\u2019s foreign intelligence agency, the BND, had presented him with any other details.The affair caused considerable tension between Berlin and Washington. German attempts to secure a no-spying agreement with the US were unsuccessful. Washington did not seek to deny the charges and assured Merkel that it would not tap her phone in future.", "tags": ["Edward Snowden", "Germany", "US news", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Court rejects attempt to allow Edward Snowden into Germany"},{"date": "2014-12-02T14:00:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Her face lights up briefly with the memory of it: \u201cShampoo and coffee! Only if you lived in the GDR would you know what those shops smelled like\u201d. I had asked about that socialist peculiarity \u2013 Intershops: hard currency stores that stocked things, like coffee, that hadn\u2019t otherwise been available in the German Democratic Republic. My guide was 10 when the Berlin Wall came down and she had mixed memories of socialist East Germany. She was showing me round her hometown of Eisenh\u00fcttenstadt, built from scratch in the early 1950s to house workers for the giant steel mill established there. Its wide boulevard of a main street leads straight to the steel mill, still functioning and billowing out white smoke but now downsized and owned by a corporation.It was the first of the new Soviet-inspired industrial combine towns to be built in eastern Europe. It was promoted as a socialist showcase and was called Stalinstadt until 1961. At its height the city was home to about 50,000 but now it was down to around 30,000: one of eastern Germany\u2019s shrinking cities.\u201cYou are my first tour in English,\u201d the guide admitted once we had identified ourselves at the slightly run-down two-track train station. The weather was a cold, grey drizzle threatening to get worse. The guide explained that usually some of the tour was walked but not today, so for the next couple of hours or so we hopped in and out of her Skoda. Our first stop was the tall, dark columnar Soviet war memorial. It marks a mass grave of more than 4,000 Soviet soldiers. During Stalin\u2019s time the official story was that they had died in battle. The truth was the vast majority died in a PoW camp.From there she took me to see some of the housing complexes, tall regular blocks built around generous areas of grass and trees with lots of benches and little bronze statues. The creamy-coloured blocks were built one after another as the population grew; each one had to be built \u201cfaster and cheaper\u201d than the last one to keep up with demand. The guide pointed out the changing architecture from Stalinist neoclassicism to motifs based on Grimm\u2019s fairytales: a reflection in itself of the complicated politics of the GDR in its 40 or so years of existence.\u201cI love my town,\u201d the guide explained. Since 1989 decline had really set in. It was hard for her to see the place dying: boarded up blocks and phased closing down of others, but she was hopeful. Eisenh\u00fcttenstadt has been given heritage status; surviving buildings were being renovated; the gardens and squares tidied up. The numerous small bronze statues are restored: a wild boar here, a mother with a child there, and an elegant dancer-like figure gracing a pathway. The Trabant car showroom is now a bright yellow bakery, the Activist Restaurant a pub. The last thing she points out is the huge mosaic of a giant hand releasing a dove that continues to overlook the main street.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Germany"], "title": "Letter from Germany: shrinking city"},{"date": "2014-11-09T17:42:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Twenty-five years after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the international community faces an unprecedented set of challenges. The headlines and our collective awareness are dominated by famines, crises such as the Ebola epidemic and countless centres of conflict in the Middle East, Africa and Eastern Europe. The world seems as helpless as ever and our governments are split over how to solve the problems. Millions of people worldwide are on the move, fleeing war, hunger, repression and poverty, and European countries, in particular Germany, appear to them to be the last safe refuge. The challenge facing rich western nations is a moral as well as a social one.The 25th anniversary of the fall of the wall is a fitting moment to reflect on the state of the world today and on the responsibility borne by Europe as a whole and specifically by Germany, which has now been a reunified country for a quarter of a century.The collapse of the Soviet Union and the resulting prospect of a new world order marked the end of a precarious equilibrium and the beginning of an apparent unipolarity dominated by the west \u2013 first and foremost the US, followed by the countries of Europe. As western democratic and capitalistic systems had prevailed, this might have produced a clear and undisputed hegemony, which could have moulded the international politics of the new era. Instead, the west was unable to make good its claim to be a global leader. Through lack of unity, unhealthy ideological triumphalism and moral failure in international crises such as the Rwandan genocide and the invasion of Iraq with the ensuing scandals of Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo Bay, the US in particular gradually forfeited the moral and political authority that it had built up so successfully in Europe with the Marshall plan after the second world war.The capitalist system, too, has its faults and the opportunity to create a new and viable one incorporating the positive aspects of socialism, capitalism and democracy was not seized. The attacks of 11 September and the subsequent war on terror, which plunged an entire region into an interminable crisis, demonstrated that the west\u2019s position of power had changed drastically.Today the world appears rudderless. Even small, ostensibly local, conflicts quickly grow and spread out of control. September\u00a011 and its repercussions, the wars in the Middle East, the Ukraine conflict; all this would have been unthinkable if the west had found a new balance and lived up to its responsibilities after the cold war. Instead, there is now an international power vacuum. I am convinced that Europe in general and Germany in particular should shoulder more of the burden in these difficult times.For a long time \u2013 and doubtless for good reasons \u2013 Germany has declined a leadership role, preferring a policy based on consensus and cooperation, especially where the European Union is concerned. In the future, too, Germany should not go it alone, yet it can still take a more active part in foreign affairs than it has up to now.The successful reconstruction of Germany after the second world war was only possible with international help. This begets responsibility \u2013 and no country is more aware of this than the Federal Republic. She is now in a position to provide long-term and credible assistance to the many suffering and fleeing people of the world, and she should do so. Recent German history is a tale of the success of democracy and it is incumbent on this country to give other states and peoples a chance to rebuild their nations and lives.I have lived as a Jew in Berlin for the past 23 years, something that would not have been possible if I did not believe that the Germans had thought long and hard about their past. No one else has managed to do this to the extent the Germans have, and I admire them for it. But this chapter of self-reflection should also have an impact on foreign policy.Germany\u2019s approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a diminutive one. It does not want to inflame sensibilities over its relations with Israel. However, if there is to be a solution to the conflict, Germany must play some role and exert some form of influence on Israeli policy. Germany can and should put political pressure on Israel. After all, we are talking here about the intellectual and political future of the state of Israel. The logic is simple: Germany is committed to the ongoing security of the state of Israel, but this is only possible in the long term if the future of the Palestinian people, too, is secured in its own sovereign state. If this does not happen, the wars and history of that region will be constantly repeated and the unbearable stalemate will continue.One man was under no illusion of this \u2013 the Israeli prime minister, Yitzhak Rabin: \u201cI was a soldier and I know that Israel can win wars with Syria, Lebanon and Egypt and maybe even beat them all at the same time. But Israel cannot win a war against the Palestinian people. My first duty is to protect the security of the Israeli people and I can only meet this obligation if we make peace with the Palestinians.\u201d It was this publicly expressed opinion that sadly cost Rabin his life.Germany\u2019s task, as a leading country of the world, is to make precisely this fact plain to the government of Israel \u2013 that Israel\u2019s lasting future depends on its government\u2019s willingness to enter into a genuine peace agreement with the Palestinians. That this also goes for the Palestinians grouped around Hamas hardly needs to be stressed. Both sides have to understand that they must live together for better or worse and that hatred, terror and territorial, ethnic and religious exclusion have never produced peace, but rather have led to killing and more killing. That, too, is a lesson that Germany, more than many other countries, has learned by bitter experience. It is a lesson that can and should inform the foreign policy of the Federal Republic.", "tags": ["Berlin Wall", "World news", "Germany", "Europe", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Middle East and North Africa", "UK news", "Daniel Barenboim", "Music"], "title": "Germany must talk straight with Israel | Daniel Barenboim"},{"date": "2014-11-05T15:55:48Z", "country": "germany", "content": "New figures from Facebook show that the German government makes more requests for user data, relative to the size of its Facebook userbase, than any other.Despite the nation\u2019s reputation for protecting internet freedom, bolstered in the wake of the Edward Snowden revelations and the German government\u2019s response, Facebook\u2019s latest transparency report reveals that Germany made 2,537 requests for user data in the first half of 2014.With the country\u2019s Facebook population estimated at 22 million by eMarketer, that means the government made 115 requests for data for every million users. Those requests referenced 3,078 user accounts, but just a third of them led to some data being produced.Italy, America and France are the next three biggest sources of government requests, each producing around 100 requests per million users. Britain comes fifth of the 20 countries the Guardian studied, with 70 requests for data per million users.But requests from Britain and America are significantly more likely to be granted than those from mainland Europe; 71% and 80% of requests are granted, a success rate twice as high as that of Germany or France (where just 30% of requests lead to data being handed over).\u201cWe scrutinise every government request we receive for legal sufficiency under our terms and the strict letter of the law, and push back hard when we find deficiencies or are served with overly broad requests,\u201d said Facebook\u2019s deputy general counsel, Chris Sonderby.\u201cMore broadly, we continue to work with our industry and civil-society partners to push governments for additional transparency and to reform surveillance practices necessary to rebuild people\u2019s trust in the internet. While we recognise that governments need to take action to protect their citizens\u2019 safety and security, we believe all government data requests must be narrowly tailored, proportionate to the case in review, and subject to strict judicial oversight.\u201dAs well as requests for data, Facebook also revealed that access was restricted to nine pieces of content in the UK following court injunctions. In the US, no such content was restricted, while three countries \u2013 India, Turkey, and Pakistan \u2013 restricted access to more than a thousand pieces of content each, with India topping the censorship charts after imposing restrictions on 4,960 items. The country has the second-largest Facebook userbase after the USA.On Monday, the head of GCHQ argued that technology companies such as Facebook and its subsidiary WhatsApp were not doing enough to help western governments fight radical groups such as Isis. Writing in the Financial Times, Robert Hannigan described the social media services as \u201ccommand-and-control networks\u201d for insurgents and terrorists. Number 10 concurred, with a spokesman telling the Guardian that David Cameron \u201cvery much shares the view that is being expressed there around the use of web-enabled, internet-access technologies by violent and extremist groups among others, and the need to do more.\u201d\u2022 No 10 backs GCHQ chief\u2019s criticism of internet firms", "tags": ["Mark Zuckerberg", "Facebook", "Germany", "Internet", "Freedom of information", "Privacy", "Data and computer security", "Data protection", "Social networking", "Social media"], "title": "Germany tops table of Facebook data requests"},{"date": "2014-10-03T18:17:17Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Professor Tom Lodge (Letters, 3 October) disputes the statement in my letter (1 October) that \u201cthe Stasi did not ...torture its perceived enemies, even if it was often heavy-handed and unjust\u201d. He quotes Anna Funder\u2019s Stasiland \u2013 the one book invariably quoted, although written by an Australian, now resident in the US, and based entirely on second-hand evidence. Lodge says the \u201ctorture facilities\u201d in the Hohensch\u00f6nhausen prison were \u201cpurpose-built by the Russians\u201d. It was certainly used as a prison and transit camp by the Russians for Nazis at the end of the war and was later taken over and extended by the GDR in the 1950s. \u201cIn this place,\u201d Lodge says, \u201ctorture was routine and systematic.\u201dWhile I don\u2019t want to become drawn into defending the state security forces of the GDR, which were certainly very often an oppressive and ugly organisation, I do still dispute that \u201ctorture was systematic and routine\u201d. There is a significant difference between harsh prison conditions and torture as a technique of interrogation and oppression, but by comparison with the Nazis, or even the US use of water-boarding and hooding etc, there is little evidence of the Stasi being as bad or worse.Well-known GDR dissidents, like the environmentalist Rudolf Bahro, the publisher Walter Janka, the philosopher Wolfgang Harich and artist B\u00e4rbel Bohley, were imprisoned in Hohensch\u00f6nhausen in unjustifiable and harsh conditions, but none, as far as I am aware, alleged any form of horrific torture. While the Federal Republic was extremely reticent after the war in condemning the Nazis for the horrors they committed, and even gave many of the perpetrators their jobs back, it is determined to demonise the GDR, not simply to confront its failings or forms of oppression, but to vilify the whole idea of an alternative and socialist German state.John GreenLondon", "tags": ["Germany", "Torture"], "title": "Reality of oppression in East Germany  @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-12-17T17:57:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Bilbo Baggins showed stout legs on the last stage of his journey, The Battle of the Five Armies, picking up $122.2m (\u00a378m) in 38 territories. That might look to be down on overseas openings for the previous instalments, An Unexpected Journey ($138m) and Desolation of Smaug ($135.4m), but it unrolled in nearly 10 fewer markets, so no cause for alarm. With methodical marketing that has emphasised the film as not only the culmination of the trilogy, but of 17 years on Tolkien duty for director Peter Jackson, it would be quite a shock if the film didn\u2019t see a rally from Desolation of Smaug\u2019s $958.4m worldwide take (a predictable middle-instalment slip from the first\u2019s $1.01bn). Next week\u2019s US opening will have a big say \u2013 perhaps why Warner opted to open the film internationally first, in order to reinforce the sense of a universal phenomenon that will fire up easily jaded American audiences. Five Armies would have to take $1.11bn to rule them all in terms of the entire Middle Earth sextet \u2013 that was Return of the King\u2019s eventual total, making it the eighth highest-grossing film of all time.In terms of individual countries, Five Armies is doing best-ever Hobbit business in the UK, France, Mexico, New Zealand, probably in Russia (where admissions are high, but the rouble crisis is depressing its dollar-take) and, most resoundingly, in Germany. There, its $20.5m debut is not only a series high ($15m: Unexpected; $19m: Desolation), it\u2019s also topped the 2014 openings chart by some distance. Germany was the most lucrative non-US market, ahead, surprisingly, of the UK, for both of the other two Hobbit movies; a nice nod to the northern European cultural roots of JRR Tolkien\u2019s original myth-making.US film-goers didn\u2019t exactly flock to Ridley Scott and Christian Bale\u2019s standard this weekend, with their Moses epic Exodus: Gods and Kings managing a half-hearted $24.1m at first pass. That\u2019s significantly short of the more radical Noah\u2019s $43.7m in March, $25.6m for Fox\u2019s Jesus outing Son of God in February \u2013 let alone the $83.8m for Passion of the Christ, which was in Aramaic, for you-know-who\u2019s sake. Thirty per cent of Exodus\u2019s audience identified themselves as \u201cvery religious\u201d, and distributor Fox will need them to continue turning out to bulk up box office over the Christmas season. But given that Noah rode out many squalls about its unorthodox spin on the Bible to an eventual $362.6m worldwide, whereas the only flak Exodus has received has been about its racial casting policy, perhaps Scott should have been more adventurous story-wise. Currently on $73.7m across all territories, it\u2019s not holding up especially well in the spate of Christian-dominated countries it kicked off in last week: -49% in South Korea, -53% in Spain, -53% in Mexico (even with The Hobbit yet to open in those three). Turkey and Israel opened, both down on Noah, this week \u2013 the most significant among a scattering of minor territories before most of western Europe and the Middle East weighs in around Christmas Day.That was the name invoked in a fair few reviews for Chris Rock\u2019s third directorial effort Top Five, in which Woody-ish New York amblings and musings happen to comedian-actor Andre Allen (played by Rock) in the company of a beautiful journalist (Rosario Dawson) who spins his life around. Critics seem to agree that the film \u2013 staffed by superior talent, including director of photography Manuel Alberto Claro (Nymphomaniac), producers Jay Z and Kanye West and executive music producer Questlove (of the Roots) \u2013 is a cut above mainstream African-American output, tempering the typical raucous comedy with greater control and character subtleties. Rock also \u2013 like a certain Jewish icon \u2013 cannily refracts his leading role through the prism of his own star persona. And his huge fanbase almost appears to give him the edge in box-office terms over Allen in the US: $6.9m is far higher than any of the legend\u2019s openings (the best being $3.9m for Small Time Crooks), though inflation-corrected results for some of Allen\u2019s canonic works might rearrange the picture. Allen, though, isn\u2019t limited by a strongly ethnic fanbase, which has allowed him to notch up some significant worldwide tallies, especially recently (Midnight in Paris: $151.1m; Blue Jasmine: $97.5m). It\u2019s an exciting prospect that an African-American director could widen his appeal beyond his immediate constituency to land on similar levels of success: Top Five will get a limited release in mostly English-speaking countries early next year, which is a start. Now all Rock has to do is put in a hot-streak to match the one Allen enjoyed in the 70s and 80s.There was no Rentrak data for India or China this week, which meant that weekend one for Rajinikanth\u2019s Tamil blockbuster Lingaa and weekend two for barnstorming Chinese schooldays drama Fleet of Time were a little hazy. There\u2019s been initial speculation that Lingaa had taken 102 crore ($16.2m), which would make it the fastest Tamil film to pass the 100-crore mark \u2013 but India\u2019s sketchy box-office reporting systems have thrown up much dust around that claim. Zhang Yibai\u2019s Fleet of Time looks to have reached an impressive $72.61m over its first week, closing the gap on Vicky Zhao\u2019s So Young, the film that started off the nostalgic college-days drama fad in 2013 and earned $116m. The two new international newcomers we do know about are Korean indie documentary My Love, Don\u2019t Cross That River, in 11th place globally; and Italian comedy Il Ricco, Il Povero e Il Maggiordomo (The Rich, The Poor and the Butler), in 15th place. Having opened two weeks ago and expanded massively since to climb up the charts in South Korea, the former follows a 98-year-old and an 89-year-old who have been married for 76 years. It\u2019s currently outpacing Interstellar and Exodus there \u2013 now that is what you call stamina.Five Armies plants its hairy toes even further afield, including the US in mid-week and locales \u2013 such as South Korea and Spain \u2013 where it was ducking a first-week clash with Exodus. The big children\u2019s release for Christmas, a third Night at the Museum in the company of Ben Stiller, is wheeled out in about 30 markets, including the UK, Italy, Germany and most of the Middle East. Disney\u2019s manga-inflected Big Hero 6 has been hanging around the top 10 for nearly six weeks, and has quietly been amassing records for an animation in smaller Asian countries; its crosscultural ambitions get their first real test with a Japanese and Hong Kong release next frame. With other big markets en route (Italy, Spain, Brazil, Australia, South Africa before 2015), it should push on rapidly from an already sizeable global pot of $253.5m. In India and around the diaspora, Rajinikanth \u2013 who apparently also has a Japanese following \u2013 will be forced to step up to fellow titan Aamir Khan\u2019s latest film PK; Khan\u2019s Dhoom 3, from 2013, is the current worldwide Bollywood champion, a title previously held by his 3 Idiots, from 2009, and a whopping box-office dent is expected of PK. Talking of great expectations, actor-director Jiang Wen will be hoping to reclaim the Chinese local-film box-office record once held by his period comedy western Let the Bullets Fly. His newbie, Gone With the Bullets \u2013 an urban action-comedy this time centred around a 1920s Shanghai beauty pageant \u2013 had a spot of bother with the censors that nixed its premiere, but will open on schedule on Thursday. Costing $20m more than its precedessor at $48.8m, with involvement from Sony, it\u2019s another example of how budgets in China are ballooning in tandem with box office.1. (New) The Hobbit: The Battle of Five Armies, $122.2m from 38 territories \u2013 100% international2. Exodus: Gods and Kings, $42.3m from 28 territories. $73.7m cumulative \u2013 67.2% int; 32.8% US3. The Hunger Games: Mockingjay, Part 1, $29.2m from 87 territories. $611.4m cum \u2013 54.6% int; 45.4% US4. Penguins of Madagascar, $22m from 52 territories. $175.5m cum \u2013 66.5% int; 33.5% US5. Interstellar, $16.9m from 63 territories. $621.8m cum \u2013 73.2% int; 26.8% US6. Paddington, $11m from 23 territories. $45m cum \u2013 100% int7. Horrible Bosses 2, $10.5m from 51 territories. $75.9m cum \u2013 42.6% int; 57.4% US8. Big Hero 6, $10m from 33 territories. $253.5m cum \u2013 26.9% int; 73.1% US9. (New) Top Five, $6.9m from 1 territory \u2013 100% US10. Dumb and Dumber To, $5m from 23 territories. $131.1m cum \u2013 37.4% int; 62.6% US\u2022 Thanks to Rentrak. Some of this week\u2019s figures are based on estimates; all historical figures unadjusted, unless otherwise stated.", "tags": ["Culture", "Film", "The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies", "Top Five", "Exodus: Gods and Kings", "Peter Jackson", "Ridley Scott", "Woody Allen", "Big Hero 6"], "title": "Germany can't kick the Hobbit: Bilbophilia sweeps Europe"},{"date": "2014-12-12T12:54:59Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Attempts by opposition parties in Germany to bring Edward Snowden to Berlin to give evidence about the NSA\u2019s operations have been thwarted by the country\u2019s highest court.The Green and Left parties wanted the whistleblower to give evidence in person to a parliamentary committee investigating espionage by the US agency, but Germany\u2019s constitutional court ruled against them on Friday.The government has argued that Snowden\u2019s presence in Germany could impair relations with the US and put it under pressure to extradite him.It has suggested sending the committee \u2013 which consists of eight MPs \u2013 to interview him in Moscow, where Snowden is living in exile. Snowden has said through a lawyer that he is prepared to speak to the panel only if permitted to do so in Germany.Opposition MPs have been vocal about their wish for Snowden to be granted asylum in Germany, where anger towards the NSA and sympathy for the whistleblower has been particularly high.If Snowden were to be allowed to enter Germany, the clamour for him to be able to stay would be strong and resistance from the government would be likely to be met with civil unrest.Support for Snowden in Germany reached a peak after allegations came to light that Angela Merkel\u2019s phone was bugged. But Germany\u2019s top public prosecutor announced this week that an investigation had so far failed to find any firm evidence for the claim.Harald Range, who launched an investigation in June, did not rule out that it could be true, but said: \u201cThe document presented in public as proof of an authentic tapping of the mobile is not an authentic surveillance order by the NSA. There is no proof right now that could lead to charges that Chancellor Merkel\u2019s phone connection data was collected or her calls tapped.\u201dRange said the investigation would continue. He said that neither Snowden, the reporter for Spiegel magazine who was in possession of a document that appeared to be evidence of tapping, nor Germany\u2019s foreign intelligence agency, the BND, had presented him with any other details.The affair caused considerable tension between Berlin and Washington. German attempts to secure a no-spying agreement with the US were unsuccessful. Washington did not seek to deny the charges and assured Merkel that it would not tap her phone in future.", "tags": ["Edward Snowden", "Germany", "US news", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Court rejects attempt to allow Edward Snowden into Germany"},{"date": "2014-12-03T19:15:58Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Hundreds of mourners have paid their last respects to Tu\u011f\u00e7e Albayrak, the German student teacher whose name has become synonymous with civil courage after she defended two girls who were being harassed in a fast-food restaurant and paid with her life.At a mosque sandwiched between a railway track and a lumber yard on a windswept industrial estate 50 miles east of Frankfurt, an estimated 1,500 people joined in communal prayer and politicians and religious leaders praised Albayrak\u2019s moral fortitude for intervening to help others in difficulty.\u201cHer warmhearted and generous nature set a worthy example for others to follow,\u201d said Volker Bouffier, the prime minister of the state of Hesse, standing next to Albayrak\u2019s coffin, which was flanked by German and Turkish flags in acknowledgement of her heritage.Many in the crowd wore black and white photographs of the student pinned over their hearts. Some held banners bearing messages she had posted on social media.From the mosque a funeral cortege of buses and cars travelled under police escort to the graveyard in Albayrak\u2019s birthplace, Bad Soden-Salm\u00fcnster. Along the route onlookers stood outside their houses and on the roadside holding candles, some bowing their heads as the hearse passed.At the cemetery, friends and relatives took it in turns to carry the coffin towards the grave. Towards the close of the ceremony mourners threw handfuls of soil on to the coffin, which was then covered in wooden planks, in accordance with Islamic funeral rites.Visiting the mosque for midday prayers before the funeral, 49-year-old Reyhan Kiyak said that although she had not personally known Albayrak she felt a duty to keep her memory alive. \u201cHer death is a tragedy for us all,\u201d she said. \u201cI want my daughter to know what it is to be good, though at the same time I am scared for my daughter that she might die if she shows such courage as Tu\u011f\u00e7e did.\u201dOutside the prayer room of the mosque, friends and relatives huddled together laughing and crying as they pored over photos of her as well as messages she had written on Facebook.Albayrak died after being hit on the head by a man in the car park of a McDonald\u2019s in Offenbach in an apparent revenge attack after she went to the aid of two girls who were being harassed in the restaurant toilets.She was in a coma for two weeks after the attack, and last Friday \u2013 her 23rd birthday \u2013 her parents Ali and Sultan Albayrak took the decision to turn off her life-support machine after doctors told them their daughter was brain dead.The attack on 15 November sparked an outpouring of national sympathy when it was first reported, with vigils held across Germany \u2013 most prominently at the clinic in Offenbach where Albayrak was being cared for.Albayrak\u2019s actions at the McDonald\u2019s have prompted debate about a perceived lack of public spirit. A petition has gathered more than 150,000 signatures asking the president, Joachim Gauck, to award her the order of merit.\u201cOur angel has gone to paradise,\u201d Yasin Albayrak, her 51-year-old uncle, told the Guardian. \u201cGod always takes the ones he loves the best first, and we have to accept that this was his will.\u201dHer cousin, Tutku, 17, said: \u201cShe\u2019ll be looking down at us from high and wagging her finger because she didn\u2019t like people to show sympathy for her.\u201d", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Tu\u011f\u00e7e Albayrak funeral in Germany draws hundreds of mourners"},{"date": "2014-12-02T14:00:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Her face lights up briefly with the memory of it: \u201cShampoo and coffee! Only if you lived in the GDR would you know what those shops smelled like\u201d. I had asked about that socialist peculiarity \u2013 Intershops: hard currency stores that stocked things, like coffee, that hadn\u2019t otherwise been available in the German Democratic Republic. My guide was 10 when the Berlin Wall came down and she had mixed memories of socialist East Germany. She was showing me round her hometown of Eisenh\u00fcttenstadt, built from scratch in the early 1950s to house workers for the giant steel mill established there. Its wide boulevard of a main street leads straight to the steel mill, still functioning and billowing out white smoke but now downsized and owned by a corporation.It was the first of the new Soviet-inspired industrial combine towns to be built in eastern Europe. It was promoted as a socialist showcase and was called Stalinstadt until 1961. At its height the city was home to about 50,000 but now it was down to around 30,000: one of eastern Germany\u2019s shrinking cities.\u201cYou are my first tour in English,\u201d the guide admitted once we had identified ourselves at the slightly run-down two-track train station. The weather was a cold, grey drizzle threatening to get worse. The guide explained that usually some of the tour was walked but not today, so for the next couple of hours or so we hopped in and out of her Skoda. Our first stop was the tall, dark columnar Soviet war memorial. It marks a mass grave of more than 4,000 Soviet soldiers. During Stalin\u2019s time the official story was that they had died in battle. The truth was the vast majority died in a PoW camp.From there she took me to see some of the housing complexes, tall regular blocks built around generous areas of grass and trees with lots of benches and little bronze statues. The creamy-coloured blocks were built one after another as the population grew; each one had to be built \u201cfaster and cheaper\u201d than the last one to keep up with demand. The guide pointed out the changing architecture from Stalinist neoclassicism to motifs based on Grimm\u2019s fairytales: a reflection in itself of the complicated politics of the GDR in its 40 or so years of existence.\u201cI love my town,\u201d the guide explained. Since 1989 decline had really set in. It was hard for her to see the place dying: boarded up blocks and phased closing down of others, but she was hopeful. Eisenh\u00fcttenstadt has been given heritage status; surviving buildings were being renovated; the gardens and squares tidied up. The numerous small bronze statues are restored: a wild boar here, a mother with a child there, and an elegant dancer-like figure gracing a pathway. The Trabant car showroom is now a bright yellow bakery, the Activist Restaurant a pub. The last thing she points out is the huge mosaic of a giant hand releasing a dove that continues to overlook the main street.The Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Germany"], "title": "Letter from Germany: shrinking city"},{"date": "2014-11-09T17:42:05Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Twenty-five years after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the international community faces an unprecedented set of challenges. The headlines and our collective awareness are dominated by famines, crises such as the Ebola epidemic and countless centres of conflict in the Middle East, Africa and Eastern Europe. The world seems as helpless as ever and our governments are split over how to solve the problems. Millions of people worldwide are on the move, fleeing war, hunger, repression and poverty, and European countries, in particular Germany, appear to them to be the last safe refuge. The challenge facing rich western nations is a moral as well as a social one.The 25th anniversary of the fall of the wall is a fitting moment to reflect on the state of the world today and on the responsibility borne by Europe as a whole and specifically by Germany, which has now been a reunified country for a quarter of a century.The collapse of the Soviet Union and the resulting prospect of a new world order marked the end of a precarious equilibrium and the beginning of an apparent unipolarity dominated by the west \u2013 first and foremost the US, followed by the countries of Europe. As western democratic and capitalistic systems had prevailed, this might have produced a clear and undisputed hegemony, which could have moulded the international politics of the new era. Instead, the west was unable to make good its claim to be a global leader. Through lack of unity, unhealthy ideological triumphalism and moral failure in international crises such as the Rwandan genocide and the invasion of Iraq with the ensuing scandals of Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo Bay, the US in particular gradually forfeited the moral and political authority that it had built up so successfully in Europe with the Marshall plan after the second world war.The capitalist system, too, has its faults and the opportunity to create a new and viable one incorporating the positive aspects of socialism, capitalism and democracy was not seized. The attacks of 11 September and the subsequent war on terror, which plunged an entire region into an interminable crisis, demonstrated that the west\u2019s position of power had changed drastically.Today the world appears rudderless. Even small, ostensibly local, conflicts quickly grow and spread out of control. September\u00a011 and its repercussions, the wars in the Middle East, the Ukraine conflict; all this would have been unthinkable if the west had found a new balance and lived up to its responsibilities after the cold war. Instead, there is now an international power vacuum. I am convinced that Europe in general and Germany in particular should shoulder more of the burden in these difficult times.For a long time \u2013 and doubtless for good reasons \u2013 Germany has declined a leadership role, preferring a policy based on consensus and cooperation, especially where the European Union is concerned. In the future, too, Germany should not go it alone, yet it can still take a more active part in foreign affairs than it has up to now.The successful reconstruction of Germany after the second world war was only possible with international help. This begets responsibility \u2013 and no country is more aware of this than the Federal Republic. She is now in a position to provide long-term and credible assistance to the many suffering and fleeing people of the world, and she should do so. Recent German history is a tale of the success of democracy and it is incumbent on this country to give other states and peoples a chance to rebuild their nations and lives.I have lived as a Jew in Berlin for the past 23 years, something that would not have been possible if I did not believe that the Germans had thought long and hard about their past. No one else has managed to do this to the extent the Germans have, and I admire them for it. But this chapter of self-reflection should also have an impact on foreign policy.Germany\u2019s approach to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a diminutive one. It does not want to inflame sensibilities over its relations with Israel. However, if there is to be a solution to the conflict, Germany must play some role and exert some form of influence on Israeli policy. Germany can and should put political pressure on Israel. After all, we are talking here about the intellectual and political future of the state of Israel. The logic is simple: Germany is committed to the ongoing security of the state of Israel, but this is only possible in the long term if the future of the Palestinian people, too, is secured in its own sovereign state. If this does not happen, the wars and history of that region will be constantly repeated and the unbearable stalemate will continue.One man was under no illusion of this \u2013 the Israeli prime minister, Yitzhak Rabin: \u201cI was a soldier and I know that Israel can win wars with Syria, Lebanon and Egypt and maybe even beat them all at the same time. But Israel cannot win a war against the Palestinian people. My first duty is to protect the security of the Israeli people and I can only meet this obligation if we make peace with the Palestinians.\u201d It was this publicly expressed opinion that sadly cost Rabin his life.Germany\u2019s task, as a leading country of the world, is to make precisely this fact plain to the government of Israel \u2013 that Israel\u2019s lasting future depends on its government\u2019s willingness to enter into a genuine peace agreement with the Palestinians. That this also goes for the Palestinians grouped around Hamas hardly needs to be stressed. Both sides have to understand that they must live together for better or worse and that hatred, terror and territorial, ethnic and religious exclusion have never produced peace, but rather have led to killing and more killing. That, too, is a lesson that Germany, more than many other countries, has learned by bitter experience. It is a lesson that can and should inform the foreign policy of the Federal Republic.", "tags": ["Berlin Wall", "World news", "Germany", "Europe", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Middle East and North Africa", "UK news", "Daniel Barenboim", "Music"], "title": "Germany must talk straight with Israel | Daniel Barenboim"},{"date": "2014-11-05T15:55:48Z", "country": "germany", "content": "New figures from Facebook show that the German government makes more requests for user data, relative to the size of its Facebook userbase, than any other.Despite the nation\u2019s reputation for protecting internet freedom, bolstered in the wake of the Edward Snowden revelations and the German government\u2019s response, Facebook\u2019s latest transparency report reveals that Germany made 2,537 requests for user data in the first half of 2014.With the country\u2019s Facebook population estimated at 22 million by eMarketer, that means the government made 115 requests for data for every million users. Those requests referenced 3,078 user accounts, but just a third of them led to some data being produced.Italy, America and France are the next three biggest sources of government requests, each producing around 100 requests per million users. Britain comes fifth of the 20 countries the Guardian studied, with 70 requests for data per million users.But requests from Britain and America are significantly more likely to be granted than those from mainland Europe; 71% and 80% of requests are granted, a success rate twice as high as that of Germany or France (where just 30% of requests lead to data being handed over).\u201cWe scrutinise every government request we receive for legal sufficiency under our terms and the strict letter of the law, and push back hard when we find deficiencies or are served with overly broad requests,\u201d said Facebook\u2019s deputy general counsel, Chris Sonderby.\u201cMore broadly, we continue to work with our industry and civil-society partners to push governments for additional transparency and to reform surveillance practices necessary to rebuild people\u2019s trust in the internet. While we recognise that governments need to take action to protect their citizens\u2019 safety and security, we believe all government data requests must be narrowly tailored, proportionate to the case in review, and subject to strict judicial oversight.\u201dAs well as requests for data, Facebook also revealed that access was restricted to nine pieces of content in the UK following court injunctions. In the US, no such content was restricted, while three countries \u2013 India, Turkey, and Pakistan \u2013 restricted access to more than a thousand pieces of content each, with India topping the censorship charts after imposing restrictions on 4,960 items. The country has the second-largest Facebook userbase after the USA.On Monday, the head of GCHQ argued that technology companies such as Facebook and its subsidiary WhatsApp were not doing enough to help western governments fight radical groups such as Isis. Writing in the Financial Times, Robert Hannigan described the social media services as \u201ccommand-and-control networks\u201d for insurgents and terrorists. Number 10 concurred, with a spokesman telling the Guardian that David Cameron \u201cvery much shares the view that is being expressed there around the use of web-enabled, internet-access technologies by violent and extremist groups among others, and the need to do more.\u201d\u2022 No 10 backs GCHQ chief\u2019s criticism of internet firms", "tags": ["Mark Zuckerberg", "Facebook", "Germany", "Internet", "Freedom of information", "Privacy", "Data and computer security", "Data protection", "Social networking", "Social media"], "title": "Germany tops table of Facebook data requests"},{"date": "2014-10-03T18:17:17Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Professor Tom Lodge (Letters, 3 October) disputes the statement in my letter (1 October) that \u201cthe Stasi did not ...torture its perceived enemies, even if it was often heavy-handed and unjust\u201d. He quotes Anna Funder\u2019s Stasiland \u2013 the one book invariably quoted, although written by an Australian, now resident in the US, and based entirely on second-hand evidence. Lodge says the \u201ctorture facilities\u201d in the Hohensch\u00f6nhausen prison were \u201cpurpose-built by the Russians\u201d. It was certainly used as a prison and transit camp by the Russians for Nazis at the end of the war and was later taken over and extended by the GDR in the 1950s. \u201cIn this place,\u201d Lodge says, \u201ctorture was routine and systematic.\u201dWhile I don\u2019t want to become drawn into defending the state security forces of the GDR, which were certainly very often an oppressive and ugly organisation, I do still dispute that \u201ctorture was systematic and routine\u201d. There is a significant difference between harsh prison conditions and torture as a technique of interrogation and oppression, but by comparison with the Nazis, or even the US use of water-boarding and hooding etc, there is little evidence of the Stasi being as bad or worse.Well-known GDR dissidents, like the environmentalist Rudolf Bahro, the publisher Walter Janka, the philosopher Wolfgang Harich and artist B\u00e4rbel Bohley, were imprisoned in Hohensch\u00f6nhausen in unjustifiable and harsh conditions, but none, as far as I am aware, alleged any form of horrific torture. While the Federal Republic was extremely reticent after the war in condemning the Nazis for the horrors they committed, and even gave many of the perpetrators their jobs back, it is determined to demonise the GDR, not simply to confront its failings or forms of oppression, but to vilify the whole idea of an alternative and socialist German state.John GreenLondon", "tags": ["Germany", "Torture"], "title": "Reality of oppression in East Germany  @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-12-17T17:57:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Bilbo Baggins showed stout legs on the last stage of his journey, The Battle of the Five Armies, picking up $122.2m (\u00a378m) in 38 territories. That might look to be down on overseas openings for the previous instalments, An Unexpected Journey ($138m) and Desolation of Smaug ($135.4m), but it unrolled in nearly 10 fewer markets, so no cause for alarm. With methodical marketing that has emphasised the film as not only the culmination of the trilogy, but of 17 years on Tolkien duty for director Peter Jackson, it would be quite a shock if the film didn\u2019t see a rally from Desolation of Smaug\u2019s $958.4m worldwide take (a predictable middle-instalment slip from the first\u2019s $1.01bn). Next week\u2019s US opening will have a big say \u2013 perhaps why Warner opted to open the film internationally first, in order to reinforce the sense of a universal phenomenon that will fire up easily jaded American audiences. Five Armies would have to take $1.11bn to rule them all in terms of the entire Middle Earth sextet \u2013 that was Return of the King\u2019s eventual total, making it the eighth highest-grossing film of all time.In terms of individual countries, Five Armies is doing best-ever Hobbit business in the UK, France, Mexico, New Zealand, probably in Russia (where admissions are high, but the rouble crisis is depressing its dollar-take) and, most resoundingly, in Germany. There, its $20.5m debut is not only a series high ($15m: Unexpected; $19m: Desolation), it\u2019s also topped the 2014 openings chart by some distance. Germany was the most lucrative non-US market, ahead, surprisingly, of the UK, for both of the other two Hobbit movies; a nice nod to the northern European cultural roots of JRR Tolkien\u2019s original myth-making.US film-goers didn\u2019t exactly flock to Ridley Scott and Christian Bale\u2019s standard this weekend, with their Moses epic Exodus: Gods and Kings managing a half-hearted $24.1m at first pass. That\u2019s significantly short of the more radical Noah\u2019s $43.7m in March, $25.6m for Fox\u2019s Jesus outing Son of God in February \u2013 let alone the $83.8m for Passion of the Christ, which was in Aramaic, for you-know-who\u2019s sake. Thirty per cent of Exodus\u2019s audience identified themselves as \u201cvery religious\u201d, and distributor Fox will need them to continue turning out to bulk up box office over the Christmas season. But given that Noah rode out many squalls about its unorthodox spin on the Bible to an eventual $362.6m worldwide, whereas the only flak Exodus has received has been about its racial casting policy, perhaps Scott should have been more adventurous story-wise. Currently on $73.7m across all territories, it\u2019s not holding up especially well in the spate of Christian-dominated countries it kicked off in last week: -49% in South Korea, -53% in Spain, -53% in Mexico (even with The Hobbit yet to open in those three). Turkey and Israel opened, both down on Noah, this week \u2013 the most significant among a scattering of minor territories before most of western Europe and the Middle East weighs in around Christmas Day.That was the name invoked in a fair few reviews for Chris Rock\u2019s third directorial effort Top Five, in which Woody-ish New York amblings and musings happen to comedian-actor Andre Allen (played by Rock) in the company of a beautiful journalist (Rosario Dawson) who spins his life around. Critics seem to agree that the film \u2013 staffed by superior talent, including director of photography Manuel Alberto Claro (Nymphomaniac), producers Jay Z and Kanye West and executive music producer Questlove (of the Roots) \u2013 is a cut above mainstream African-American output, tempering the typical raucous comedy with greater control and character subtleties. Rock also \u2013 like a certain Jewish icon \u2013 cannily refracts his leading role through the prism of his own star persona. And his huge fanbase almost appears to give him the edge in box-office terms over Allen in the US: $6.9m is far higher than any of the legend\u2019s openings (the best being $3.9m for Small Time Crooks), though inflation-corrected results for some of Allen\u2019s canonic works might rearrange the picture. Allen, though, isn\u2019t limited by a strongly ethnic fanbase, which has allowed him to notch up some significant worldwide tallies, especially recently (Midnight in Paris: $151.1m; Blue Jasmine: $97.5m). It\u2019s an exciting prospect that an African-American director could widen his appeal beyond his immediate constituency to land on similar levels of success: Top Five will get a limited release in mostly English-speaking countries early next year, which is a start. Now all Rock has to do is put in a hot-streak to match the one Allen enjoyed in the 70s and 80s.There was no Rentrak data for India or China this week, which meant that weekend one for Rajinikanth\u2019s Tamil blockbuster Lingaa and weekend two for barnstorming Chinese schooldays drama Fleet of Time were a little hazy. There\u2019s been initial speculation that Lingaa had taken 102 crore ($16.2m), which would make it the fastest Tamil film to pass the 100-crore mark \u2013 but India\u2019s sketchy box-office reporting systems have thrown up much dust around that claim. Zhang Yibai\u2019s Fleet of Time looks to have reached an impressive $72.61m over its first week, closing the gap on Vicky Zhao\u2019s So Young, the film that started off the nostalgic college-days drama fad in 2013 and earned $116m. The two new international newcomers we do know about are Korean indie documentary My Love, Don\u2019t Cross That River, in 11th place globally; and Italian comedy Il Ricco, Il Povero e Il Maggiordomo (The Rich, The Poor and the Butler), in 15th place. Having opened two weeks ago and expanded massively since to climb up the charts in South Korea, the former follows a 98-year-old and an 89-year-old who have been married for 76 years. It\u2019s currently outpacing Interstellar and Exodus there \u2013 now that is what you call stamina.Five Armies plants its hairy toes even further afield, including the US in mid-week and locales \u2013 such as South Korea and Spain \u2013 where it was ducking a first-week clash with Exodus. The big children\u2019s release for Christmas, a third Night at the Museum in the company of Ben Stiller, is wheeled out in about 30 markets, including the UK, Italy, Germany and most of the Middle East. Disney\u2019s manga-inflected Big Hero 6 has been hanging around the top 10 for nearly six weeks, and has quietly been amassing records for an animation in smaller Asian countries; its crosscultural ambitions get their first real test with a Japanese and Hong Kong release next frame. With other big markets en route (Italy, Spain, Brazil, Australia, South Africa before 2015), it should push on rapidly from an already sizeable global pot of $253.5m. In India and around the diaspora, Rajinikanth \u2013 who apparently also has a Japanese following \u2013 will be forced to step up to fellow titan Aamir Khan\u2019s latest film PK; Khan\u2019s Dhoom 3, from 2013, is the current worldwide Bollywood champion, a title previously held by his 3 Idiots, from 2009, and a whopping box-office dent is expected of PK. Talking of great expectations, actor-director Jiang Wen will be hoping to reclaim the Chinese local-film box-office record once held by his period comedy western Let the Bullets Fly. His newbie, Gone With the Bullets \u2013 an urban action-comedy this time centred around a 1920s Shanghai beauty pageant \u2013 had a spot of bother with the censors that nixed its premiere, but will open on schedule on Thursday. Costing $20m more than its precedessor at $48.8m, with involvement from Sony, it\u2019s another example of how budgets in China are ballooning in tandem with box office.1. (New) The Hobbit: The Battle of Five Armies, $122.2m from 38 territories \u2013 100% international2. Exodus: Gods and Kings, $42.3m from 28 territories. $73.7m cumulative \u2013 67.2% int; 32.8% US3. The Hunger Games: Mockingjay, Part 1, $29.2m from 87 territories. $611.4m cum \u2013 54.6% int; 45.4% US4. Penguins of Madagascar, $22m from 52 territories. $175.5m cum \u2013 66.5% int; 33.5% US5. Interstellar, $16.9m from 63 territories. $621.8m cum \u2013 73.2% int; 26.8% US6. Paddington, $11m from 23 territories. $45m cum \u2013 100% int7. Horrible Bosses 2, $10.5m from 51 territories. $75.9m cum \u2013 42.6% int; 57.4% US8. Big Hero 6, $10m from 33 territories. $253.5m cum \u2013 26.9% int; 73.1% US9. (New) Top Five, $6.9m from 1 territory \u2013 100% US10. Dumb and Dumber To, $5m from 23 territories. $131.1m cum \u2013 37.4% int; 62.6% US\u2022 Thanks to Rentrak. Some of this week\u2019s figures are based on estimates; all historical figures unadjusted, unless otherwise stated.", "tags": ["Culture", "Film", "The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies", "Top Five", "Exodus: Gods and Kings", "Peter Jackson", "Ridley Scott", "Woody Allen", "Big Hero 6"], "title": "Germany can't kick the Hobbit: Bilbophilia sweeps Europe"},{"date": "2014-12-12T12:54:59Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Attempts by opposition parties in Germany to bring Edward Snowden to Berlin to give evidence about the NSA\u2019s operations have been thwarted by the country\u2019s highest court.The Green and Left parties wanted the whistleblower to give evidence in person to a parliamentary committee investigating espionage by the US agency, but Germany\u2019s constitutional court ruled against them on Friday.The government has argued that Snowden\u2019s presence in Germany could impair relations with the US and put it under pressure to extradite him.It has suggested sending the committee \u2013 which consists of eight MPs \u2013 to interview him in Moscow, where Snowden is living in exile. Snowden has said through a lawyer that he is prepared to speak to the panel only if permitted to do so in Germany.Opposition MPs have been vocal about their wish for Snowden to be granted asylum in Germany, where anger towards the NSA and sympathy for the whistleblower has been particularly high.If Snowden were to be allowed to enter Germany, the clamour for him to be able to stay would be strong and resistance from the government would be likely to be met with civil unrest.Support for Snowden in Germany reached a peak after allegations came to light that Angela Merkel\u2019s phone was bugged. But Germany\u2019s top public prosecutor announced this week that an investigation had so far failed to find any firm evidence for the claim.Harald Range, who launched an investigation in June, did not rule out that it could be true, but said: \u201cThe document presented in public as proof of an authentic tapping of the mobile is not an authentic surveillance order by the NSA. There is no proof right now that could lead to charges that Chancellor Merkel\u2019s phone connection data was collected or her calls tapped.\u201dRange said the investigation would continue. He said that neither Snowden, the reporter for Spiegel magazine who was in possession of a document that appeared to be evidence of tapping, nor Germany\u2019s foreign intelligence agency, the BND, had presented him with any other details.The affair caused considerable tension between Berlin and Washington. German attempts to secure a no-spying agreement with the US were unsuccessful. Washington did not seek to deny the charges and assured Merkel that it would not tap her phone in future.", "tags": ["Edward Snowden", "Germany", "US news", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Court rejects attempt to allow Edward Snowden into Germany"},{"date": "2014-12-03T19:15:58Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Hundreds of mourners have paid their last respects to Tu\u011f\u00e7e Albayrak, the German student teacher whose name has become synonymous with civil courage after she defended two girls who were being harassed in a fast-food restaurant and paid with her life.At a mosque sandwiched between a railway track and a lumber yard on a windswept industrial estate 50 miles east of Frankfurt, an estimated 1,500 people joined in communal prayer and politicians and religious leaders praised Albayrak\u2019s moral fortitude for intervening to help others in difficulty.\u201cHer warmhearted and generous nature set a worthy example for others to follow,\u201d said Volker Bouffier, the prime minister of the state of Hesse, standing next to Albayrak\u2019s coffin, which was flanked by German and Turkish flags in acknowledgement of her heritage.Many in the crowd wore black and white photographs of the student pinned over their hearts. Some held banners bearing messages she had posted on social media.From the mosque a funeral cortege of buses and cars travelled under police escort to the graveyard in Albayrak\u2019s birthplace, Bad Soden-Salm\u00fcnster. Along the route onlookers stood outside their houses and on the roadside holding candles, some bowing their heads as the hearse passed.At the cemetery, friends and relatives took it in turns to carry the coffin towards the grave. Towards the close of the ceremony mourners threw handfuls of soil on to the coffin, which was then covered in wooden planks, in accordance with Islamic funeral rites.Visiting the mosque for midday prayers before the funeral, 49-year-old Reyhan Kiyak said that although she had not personally known Albayrak she felt a duty to keep her memory alive. \u201cHer death is a tragedy for us all,\u201d she said. \u201cI want my daughter to know what it is to be good, though at the same time I am scared for my daughter that she might die if she shows such courage as Tu\u011f\u00e7e did.\u201dOutside the prayer room of the mosque, friends and relatives huddled together laughing and crying as they pored over photos of her as well as messages she had written on Facebook.Albayrak died after being hit on the head by a man in the car park of a McDonald\u2019s in Offenbach in an apparent revenge attack after she went to the aid of two girls who were being harassed in the restaurant toilets.She was in a coma for two weeks after the attack, and last Friday \u2013 her 23rd birthday \u2013 her parents Ali and Sultan Albayrak took the decision to turn off her life-support machine after doctors told them their daughter was brain dead.The attack on 15 November sparked an outpouring of national sympathy when it was first reported, with vigils held across Germany \u2013 most prominently at the clinic in Offenbach where Albayrak was being cared for.Albayrak\u2019s actions at the McDonald\u2019s have prompted debate about a perceived lack of public spirit. A petition has gathered more than 150,000 signatures asking the president, Joachim Gauck, to award her the order of merit.\u201cOur angel has gone to paradise,\u201d Yasin Albayrak, her 51-year-old uncle, told the Guardian. \u201cGod always takes the ones he loves the best first, and we have to accept that this was his will.\u201dHer cousin, Tutku, 17, said: \u201cShe\u2019ll be looking down at us from high and wagging her finger because she didn\u2019t like people to show sympathy for her.\u201d", "tags": ["Germany", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Tu\u011f\u00e7e Albayrak funeral in Germany draws hundreds of mourners"},{"date": "2014-11-26T13:21:49Z", "country": "germany", "content": "David Cameron\u2019s plans to mitigate immigration through reform of the European Union rest on the hope that the EU\u2019s most influential member, Germany, shares some of Britain\u2019s concerns about the effects of immigration.But new polling data collected by Ipsos Mori, exclusively published in The Guardian, paints a picture of two countries moving in very different directions when it comes to attitudes towards immigration.For a start, while in Britain immigration currently registers as the most important issue facing the country, people in Germany don\u2019t share the same sense of urgency.In fact, Britain is somewhat of an outlier when compared to the rest of the EU.Even more striking is how differently people in the two countries rate how their respective government has handled immigration.Just 25% of Britons feel the government is doing a good job in managing immigration. The dissatisfaction is cross-party: according to Ipsos Mori, 56% think the job that the current government is doing on immigration is no worse or better than the previous Labour government. Fifty two percent of British voters believe the levels of immigration would stay the same should Labour win the next election. 34% say the number would increase under Ed Miliband\u2019s party. This compares to 16% believing the levels would increase further under the Conservatives, and 23% saying they would be lower. Fifty six per cent think the levels would remain unchanged if the Tories win in May.This \u201cconsensus\u201d is explained by the previous government\u2019s failure to acknowledge the challenges posed by immigration in the 2000s, and by the current government\u2019s inability to deliver on a pledge to cut immigration.The figures in Germany are very different. While attitudes used to be similarly negative ten years ago, 54% of Germans now feel the government is doing a good job on immigration.This difference could be due to the fact that the UK has experienced higher levels of net migration through most of the 2000s, even if more recent data shows a very different trend: in 2012, Germany was second only to the United States in the number of immigrants it received.Another factor considered by Ipsos is that Brits are more concerned about immigration because it is more \u201cvisible\u201d in the UK: population density is higher, particularly in England.Access to the labour market \u2013 from the service sector to the civil service \u2013 is more restrictive in Germany than in Britain, meaning that fewer Germans perceive immigrants as a direct threat to their job prospects.But Ipsos Mori\u2019s data also suggests that politicians and the media can play an active role in shaping changing attitudes to immigration. While the German left has traditionally supported the principle of free movement, the centre-right has only gradually been persuaded of the benefits of immigration, mainly by economic and demographic arguments.Burdened with a low birthrate, Germany\u2019s population has only been growing over the last three years thanks to newly arrived immigrants from the east and south of Europe. Coverage of this trend has hence been broadly positive, even in right-of-centre newspapers such as Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung or Die Welt: \u201cWe need a golden generation of migrants\u201d, ran a recent op-ed in the latter.Mekonen Mesghena, a migration expert at the Heinrich B\u00f6ll Foundation, partly credits Angela Merkel\u2019s aversion to populist gesture for the change in attitudes. \u201cRefugees to Germany may not feel that they are welcomed with open arms, but they feel accepted\u201d.Recent polling data shows that the proportion of Germans who think migration is a necessity for the national labour market has doubled since 2004, from 27% to 53% now.Critics of immigration in Germany have traditionally focused on its cultural impact, whereas the public debate in Britain has concentrated more closely on the who and how many. But concerns that high levels of immigration would have a negative effect on education, most notably voiced in ex-Social Democrat Thilo Sarrazin\u2019s 2010 bestseller Deutschland Schafft Sich Ab (\u201cGermany Is Abolishing Itself\u201d), have subsided in recent years. So far, Germany has avoided the kind of riots in immigrant-rich districts seen in Paris, London or Stockholm.This could be argued to speak in favour of Germany\u2019s active integration policy: since 2005, new and unemployed migrants have had to take obligatory courses in German language, culture, law and history. Germany\u2019s \u201cNational Integration Plan\u201d contains over 400 measures for government, business, and social actors that focus on education, the development of language skills and incorporating migrants into the labour market. Chancellor Merkel has been hosting an integration summit since 2006, attended by social groups and stakeholders with an interest in immigration.Summarising the findings of the report, Bobby Duffy, managing director at Ipsos Mori, said: \u201cThe German government has had a particularly active focus on integration that could have made a difference to the often negative image we see of immigration in the UK.\u201d\u201cBut we know numbers still matter. As net migration increases significantly, Germany will need to be mindful of the British experience - even the best laid integration plans will come under pressure if the pace of change is just too fast.\u201dIpsos Mori fieldwork was completed by telephone among a nationally representative sample of 1,011 British adults aged 18 and above, and took place between 8th and 10th November 2014.All additional data is from the standard Eurobarometer, Transatlantic Trends and the European Social Survey.", "tags": ["UK news", "Germany", "Politics", "Immigration and asylum", "Europe"], "title": "UK and Germany have very different attitudes towards immigration"},{"date": "2015-02-14T13:24:53Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has proposed a draft law that would allow commercial shale gas fracking at depths of over 3,000 metres, overturning a de facto moratorium that has been in place since the start of the decade.A new six-person expert panel would also be empowered to allow fracks at shallower levelsShale gas industry groups welcomed the proposal for its potential to crack open the German shale gas market, but it has sparked outrage among environmentalists who view it as the thin edge of a fossil fuel wedge.Senior German officials say that the proposal, first mooted in July, is an environmental protection measure, wholly unrelated to energy security concerns which have been intensified by the conflict in Ukraine.\u201cIt is important to have a legal framework for hydraulic fracturing as until now there has been no legislation on the subject,\u201d Maria Krautzberger, president of Germany\u2019s federal environment agency (UBA), told the Guardian. \u201cWe have had a voluntary agreement with the big companies that there would be no fracking but if a company like Exxon wanted, they might do it anyway as there is no way to forbid it,\u201d she said. \u201cThis is a progressive step forward.\u201dThe draft law would only affect hydraulic fracturing for shale oil and tight gas in water protection and spring healing zones. The tight gas industry made up around 3% of German gas production before the moratorium, and, under the new proposals, could resume fracking in the Lower Saxony region where it is concentrated.Commercial fracking for shale gas and coal bed methane would be banned at levels below 3,000 metres, but allowed for exploration purposes at shallower levels, subject to the assessment of the expert panel.Environmentalists, however, were alarmed that half of the experts belong to institutions that signed the Hanover Declaration, calling for increased exploration of shale gas in Germany as a way of increasing energy security.\u201cIt is clear what these people are going to say,\u201d Jos\u00e9 Bov\u00e9, the French Green MEP, told the Guardian. \u201cThe panel is not going to be independent, but exactly what the companies are looking for. You don\u2019t need a panel to tell you that shale gas is dangerous. We can see the problems with water pollution, earthquakes and methane emissions. We need people to protest about it before the exploration begins.\u201dGermany is estimated to have 2.3tn cubic metres of shale gas reserves and industry groups say that its exploitation can help ease the country\u2019s energiewende transition away from coal, oil and nuclear energy, and assuage fears about the disruption of Russian gas supplies.\u201cThe reality is that Germany needs to ensure security of supply,\u201d said Marcus Pepperell, a spokesman for Shale Gas Europe. \u201cThat is what is driving the debate, and this is a pragmatic approach that allows Germany to respond to its energy requirements by exploring shale gas reserves with fracking.\u201dThe proposed law is just beginning its legislative passage and could still change in intergovernmental and parliamentary discussions, before a plenary vote in the Bundestag in May. If passed into law, the expert panel should be set up in 2018, and the following year could see the first fracking in Germany since 2011.Officials insisted that this would be on a small scale that would not challenge the central rationale of the energiewende \u2013 to increase renewable energy supplies.\u201cWe are on the side of the environmentalists,\u201d Krautzberger said. \u201cTheir goals are our goals but we say we should not close the door on a technology that might be fruitful in the future for exploring geothermal and other energies that do not harm the environment.\u201dUBA believes that currently expensive technologies to frack using warm air and warm water could one day unlock new energy extraction possibilities.\u201cWe are in a typical \u2018sandwich position\u2019 [between industry and environmental lobbies] but we think it\u2019s very unlikely that shale gas fracking will be developed in Germany and we say that there is no need for it as our future is in renewables,\u201d Krautzberger said. ", "tags": ["Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Gas", "Environment", "Germany", "Europe"], "title": "Germany moves to legalise fracking"},{"date": "2015-02-14T13:24:53Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has proposed a draft law that would allow commercial shale gas fracking at depths of over 3,000 metres, overturning a de facto moratorium that has been in place since the start of the decade.A new six-person expert panel would also be empowered to allow fracks at shallower levelsShale gas industry groups welcomed the proposal for its potential to crack open the German shale gas market, but it has sparked outrage among environmentalists who view it as the thin edge of a fossil fuel wedge.Senior German officials say that the proposal, first mooted in July, is an environmental protection measure, wholly unrelated to energy security concerns which have been intensified by the conflict in Ukraine.\u201cIt is important to have a legal framework for hydraulic fracturing as until now there has been no legislation on the subject,\u201d Maria Krautzberger, president of Germany\u2019s federal environment agency (UBA), told the Guardian. \u201cWe have had a voluntary agreement with the big companies that there would be no fracking but if a company like Exxon wanted, they might do it anyway as there is no way to forbid it,\u201d she said. \u201cThis is a progressive step forward.\u201dThe draft law would only affect hydraulic fracturing for shale oil and tight gas in water protection and spring healing zones. The tight gas industry made up around 3% of German gas production before the moratorium, and, under the new proposals, could resume fracking in the Lower Saxony region where it is concentrated.Commercial fracking for shale gas and coal bed methane would be banned at levels below 3,000 metres, but allowed for exploration purposes at shallower levels, subject to the assessment of the expert panel.Environmentalists, however, were alarmed that half of the experts belong to institutions that signed the Hanover Declaration, calling for increased exploration of shale gas in Germany as a way of increasing energy security.\u201cIt is clear what these people are going to say,\u201d Jos\u00e9 Bov\u00e9, the French Green MEP, told the Guardian. \u201cThe panel is not going to be independent, but exactly what the companies are looking for. You don\u2019t need a panel to tell you that shale gas is dangerous. We can see the problems with water pollution, earthquakes and methane emissions. We need people to protest about it before the exploration begins.\u201dGermany is estimated to have 2.3tn cubic metres of shale gas reserves and industry groups say that its exploitation can help ease the country\u2019s energiewende transition away from coal, oil and nuclear energy, and assuage fears about the disruption of Russian gas supplies.\u201cThe reality is that Germany needs to ensure security of supply,\u201d said Marcus Pepperell, a spokesman for Shale Gas Europe. \u201cThat is what is driving the debate, and this is a pragmatic approach that allows Germany to respond to its energy requirements by exploring shale gas reserves with fracking.\u201dThe proposed law is just beginning its legislative passage and could still change in intergovernmental and parliamentary discussions, before a plenary vote in the Bundestag in May. If passed into law, the expert panel should be set up in 2018, and the following year could see the first fracking in Germany since 2011.Officials insisted that this would be on a small scale that would not challenge the central rationale of the energiewende \u2013 to increase renewable energy supplies.\u201cWe are on the side of the environmentalists,\u201d Krautzberger said. \u201cTheir goals are our goals but we say we should not close the door on a technology that might be fruitful in the future for exploring geothermal and other energies that do not harm the environment.\u201dUBA believes that currently expensive technologies to frack using warm air and warm water could one day unlock new energy extraction possibilities.\u201cWe are in a typical \u2018sandwich position\u2019 [between industry and environmental lobbies] but we think it\u2019s very unlikely that shale gas fracking will be developed in Germany and we say that there is no need for it as our future is in renewables,\u201d Krautzberger said. ", "tags": ["Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Gas", "Environment", "Germany", "Europe"], "title": "Germany moves to legalise fracking"},{"date": "2015-02-19T18:43:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany and Greece are on a collision course ahead of crucial bailout talks on Friday after Berlin knocked back a Greek compromise proposal and insisted the country stick to its existing austerity plan.Setting the scene for a make-or-break meeting in Brussels , the eurozone\u2019s largest economy dismissed as \u201cnot substantive\u201d a proposal from Greek finance minister Yanis Varoufakis,which appeared to have all but capitulated to creditors\u2019 demands. Related: Varoufakis and the Greek-German standoff | Letters The rebuff from Berlin came just hours after Greece filed a formal request to its eurozone partners to extend its loan agreement, in the hope of averting a cash crisis.A Greek government spokesman insisted that the eurogroup had only two options: either to accept or reject the Greek request. \u201cIt will then be clear who wants to find a solution and who doesn\u2019t.\u201dThe European commission welcomed the Greek proposal \u2013 widely seen as a climbdown on some of Greece\u2019s key demands \u2013 as a positive sign that could pave the way for compromise.But in a sign of divisions within the EU, Germany said the Greek plan failed to meet eurozone ministers\u2019 demands that Greece stick to its bailout programme \u2013 a set of conditions laid out on Monday at an acrimonious meeting in Brussels that failed to end the deadlock.Greece needs unanimous backing from the other 18 eurozone finance ministers to secure a deal.\u201cThe letter from Athens is not a proposal that leads to a substantial solution,\u201d finance ministry spokesman Martin Jaeger said.\u201cIn truth it goes in the direction of a bridge financing, without fulfilling the demands of the programme. The letter does not meet the criteria agreed by the Eurogroup on Monday.\u201dGermany\u2019s rejection heightened the uncertainty around Friday\u2019s meeting, which will be the eurozone\u2019s third attempt in 10 days to resolve a standoff that has sent jitters across the continent at the prospect of a messy Greek exit from the single currency.One source said: \u201cI am sort of asking, what the fuck, are they [ministers] really going to come again and have no agreement.\u201d The source said everyone hoped for an agreement, but added: \u201cThere has not been much support [for the plan], it seems Greece will find it difficult.\u201d Others expect a compromise will be found at the last minute. \u201cProbably the Greeks will move but there is going to be more negotiation needed to find an agreement,\u201d said another source.The Greek government, which is under fire from radical ultra-leftists for making the loan application, described the latest proposal as a way to deal with the country\u2019s \u201chumanitarian crisis\u201d and kickstart the economy. But the request was widely viewed as a climbdown by the Greek government.In an effort to break the impasse in advance of Friday\u2019s meeting of euro group finance ministers \u2013 their third this week \u2013 the Greek prime minister AlexisTsipras and German chancellor Angela Merkel discussed the crisis for almost an hour late Thursday evening.Officials in Athens described the talks - interpreted by official translators and not conducted in English - as \u201cconstructive,\u201d saying both had conveyed the desire to find a solution.Merkel, they added, had assumed a more conciliatory stance than her finance minister Wolfgang Schauble. The German chancellorhas repeatedly said she wants Greece to remain in the single currency.Earlier, Tsipras spoke with the French and Italian leaders. The French president Fran\u00e7ois Hollande was also quoted in the Greek media as saying he was willing to support Athens. In a letter to Jeroen Dijsselbloem, president of the eurozone finance ministers\u2019 group, obtained by Reuters, Greece\u2019s finance minister, Yanis Varoufakis, conceded that the Greek authorities would \u201crefrain from unilateral action that would undermine the fiscal targets, economic recovery and financial stability\u201d.Crucially, he said Greece would remain under the supervision of the European commission, the European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund \u2013 the unpopular troika that the Syriza-led government had insisted it would throw off. Related: Greece seeks six-month bailout extension - live updates Analysts at Deutsche Bank said the Greek plan represented \u201creasonable progress\u201d in meeting the demands of the Eurogroup; while the head of the European Trade Union Confederation accused Germany of \u201cplaying with fire\u201d by rejecting the Greek compromise. \u201cGermany is demanding unconditional surrender from a proud people that has elected a new Government on a crystal clear platform of easing austerity,\u201d said ETUC\u2019s general secretary, Bernadette S\u00e9gol. Aides to the Greek prime minister Alexis Tsipras insisted that the loan request respected the popular will of the Greek people.Calling it an \u201cinterim agreement,\u201d insiders said the request was significant for raising the issue of debt restructuring and including a pledge from the new government to keep to a balanced budget.\u201cIt\u2019s not very often that you get left-leaning governments making those sort of commitments,\u201d said one Greek official. \u201cThey\u2019ve clearly sought to strike a very fine balance between tackling the humanitarian disaster and promising to be a government that will not only tackle corruption and tax evasion, the malfunctions of Greek society, but take on all the vested interests that plague political and business life.\u201dIn Berlin, the request from Greece for an extension of its loan agreement \u2013 known as the \u201cmaster financial assistance facility agreement\u201d \u2013 is seen very differently. \u201cThe Greeks have simply tried to pass the buck back to the middle,\u201d Matthias Kullas from the Centre for European Politics in Freiburg said.He stressed the German reaction was not a rejection over reaching a compromise with Greece, but did mean that expectations of an agreement on Friday when finance ministers from the eurogroup meet again, were now \u201cslim\u201d.\u201cIf an agreement is reached, it will be at the last minute,\u201d he said. \u201cIt\u2019s in the interest of both sides to stick to their guns. The earlier one of them diverts from his course, the weaker his position becomes and the more elbow room he leaves for the other.\u201dRaoul Ruparel, the head of economic research at Open Europe, said the Greek government had little chance of getting the rest of the eurozone to back its plans on labour market reforms, pensions and privatisations.In a briefing paper published before Greece\u2019s latest request was rejected by Germany, he said the eurozone could give way on another one of Greece\u2019s key demands, to allow the government to run a smaller budget surplus, so freeing up money for social spending. \u201cThe Greek election represented a tipping point, meaning that the rest of the eurozone will have to consider some tradeoffs,\u201d he wrote. A spokesperson for the European commission president, Jean-Claude Juncker, said the letter was a positive sign that could pave the way for a reasonable compromise. Hopes of ending Greece\u2019s standoff with the eurozone pushed Greece\u2019s stock market up by nearly 3% on Thursday. The mood of investors was also boosted by the decision of the European Central Bank to allow Greece a further \u20ac3.3bn in emergency liquidity, bringing the total ECB help to Greek banks to \u20ac68.3bn.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Greece", "Banking", "Economics", "Euro", "Currencies", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "European Union", "European banks", "European monetary union", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Austerity"], "title": "Germany rejects Greece request for loan extension"},{"date": "2015-02-14T13:24:53Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has proposed a draft law that would allow commercial shale gas fracking at depths of over 3,000 metres, overturning a de facto moratorium that has been in place since the start of the decade.A new six-person expert panel would also be empowered to allow fracks at shallower levelsShale gas industry groups welcomed the proposal for its potential to crack open the German shale gas market, but it has sparked outrage among environmentalists who view it as the thin edge of a fossil fuel wedge.Senior German officials say that the proposal, first mooted in July, is an environmental protection measure, wholly unrelated to energy security concerns which have been intensified by the conflict in Ukraine.\u201cIt is important to have a legal framework for hydraulic fracturing as until now there has been no legislation on the subject,\u201d Maria Krautzberger, president of Germany\u2019s federal environment agency (UBA), told the Guardian. \u201cWe have had a voluntary agreement with the big companies that there would be no fracking but if a company like Exxon wanted, they might do it anyway as there is no way to forbid it,\u201d she said. \u201cThis is a progressive step forward.\u201dThe draft law would only affect hydraulic fracturing for shale oil and tight gas in water protection and spring healing zones. The tight gas industry made up around 3% of German gas production before the moratorium, and, under the new proposals, could resume fracking in the Lower Saxony region where it is concentrated.Commercial fracking for shale gas and coal bed methane would be banned at levels below 3,000 metres, but allowed for exploration purposes at shallower levels, subject to the assessment of the expert panel.Environmentalists, however, were alarmed that half of the experts belong to institutions that signed the Hanover Declaration, calling for increased exploration of shale gas in Germany as a way of increasing energy security.\u201cIt is clear what these people are going to say,\u201d Jos\u00e9 Bov\u00e9, the French Green MEP, told the Guardian. \u201cThe panel is not going to be independent, but exactly what the companies are looking for. You don\u2019t need a panel to tell you that shale gas is dangerous. We can see the problems with water pollution, earthquakes and methane emissions. We need people to protest about it before the exploration begins.\u201dGermany is estimated to have 2.3tn cubic metres of shale gas reserves and industry groups say that its exploitation can help ease the country\u2019s energiewende transition away from coal, oil and nuclear energy, and assuage fears about the disruption of Russian gas supplies.\u201cThe reality is that Germany needs to ensure security of supply,\u201d said Marcus Pepperell, a spokesman for Shale Gas Europe. \u201cThat is what is driving the debate, and this is a pragmatic approach that allows Germany to respond to its energy requirements by exploring shale gas reserves with fracking.\u201dThe proposed law is just beginning its legislative passage and could still change in intergovernmental and parliamentary discussions, before a plenary vote in the Bundestag in May. If passed into law, the expert panel should be set up in 2018, and the following year could see the first fracking in Germany since 2011.Officials insisted that this would be on a small scale that would not challenge the central rationale of the energiewende \u2013 to increase renewable energy supplies.\u201cWe are on the side of the environmentalists,\u201d Krautzberger said. \u201cTheir goals are our goals but we say we should not close the door on a technology that might be fruitful in the future for exploring geothermal and other energies that do not harm the environment.\u201dUBA believes that currently expensive technologies to frack using warm air and warm water could one day unlock new energy extraction possibilities.\u201cWe are in a typical \u2018sandwich position\u2019 [between industry and environmental lobbies] but we think it\u2019s very unlikely that shale gas fracking will be developed in Germany and we say that there is no need for it as our future is in renewables,\u201d Krautzberger said. ", "tags": ["Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Gas", "Environment", "Germany", "Europe"], "title": "Germany moves to legalise fracking"},{"date": "2015-02-19T18:43:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany and Greece are on a collision course ahead of crucial bailout talks on Friday after Berlin knocked back a Greek compromise proposal and insisted the country stick to its existing austerity plan.Setting the scene for a make-or-break meeting in Brussels , the eurozone\u2019s largest economy dismissed as \u201cnot substantive\u201d a proposal from Greek finance minister Yanis Varoufakis,which appeared to have all but capitulated to creditors\u2019 demands. Related: Varoufakis and the Greek-German standoff | Letters The rebuff from Berlin came just hours after Greece filed a formal request to its eurozone partners to extend its loan agreement, in the hope of averting a cash crisis.A Greek government spokesman insisted that the eurogroup had only two options: either to accept or reject the Greek request. \u201cIt will then be clear who wants to find a solution and who doesn\u2019t.\u201dThe European commission welcomed the Greek proposal \u2013 widely seen as a climbdown on some of Greece\u2019s key demands \u2013 as a positive sign that could pave the way for compromise.But in a sign of divisions within the EU, Germany said the Greek plan failed to meet eurozone ministers\u2019 demands that Greece stick to its bailout programme \u2013 a set of conditions laid out on Monday at an acrimonious meeting in Brussels that failed to end the deadlock.Greece needs unanimous backing from the other 18 eurozone finance ministers to secure a deal.\u201cThe letter from Athens is not a proposal that leads to a substantial solution,\u201d finance ministry spokesman Martin Jaeger said.\u201cIn truth it goes in the direction of a bridge financing, without fulfilling the demands of the programme. The letter does not meet the criteria agreed by the Eurogroup on Monday.\u201dGermany\u2019s rejection heightened the uncertainty around Friday\u2019s meeting, which will be the eurozone\u2019s third attempt in 10 days to resolve a standoff that has sent jitters across the continent at the prospect of a messy Greek exit from the single currency.One source said: \u201cI am sort of asking, what the fuck, are they [ministers] really going to come again and have no agreement.\u201d The source said everyone hoped for an agreement, but added: \u201cThere has not been much support [for the plan], it seems Greece will find it difficult.\u201d Others expect a compromise will be found at the last minute. \u201cProbably the Greeks will move but there is going to be more negotiation needed to find an agreement,\u201d said another source.The Greek government, which is under fire from radical ultra-leftists for making the loan application, described the latest proposal as a way to deal with the country\u2019s \u201chumanitarian crisis\u201d and kickstart the economy. But the request was widely viewed as a climbdown by the Greek government.In an effort to break the impasse in advance of Friday\u2019s meeting of euro group finance ministers \u2013 their third this week \u2013 the Greek prime minister AlexisTsipras and German chancellor Angela Merkel discussed the crisis for almost an hour late Thursday evening.Officials in Athens described the talks - interpreted by official translators and not conducted in English - as \u201cconstructive,\u201d saying both had conveyed the desire to find a solution.Merkel, they added, had assumed a more conciliatory stance than her finance minister Wolfgang Schauble. The German chancellorhas repeatedly said she wants Greece to remain in the single currency.Earlier, Tsipras spoke with the French and Italian leaders. The French president Fran\u00e7ois Hollande was also quoted in the Greek media as saying he was willing to support Athens. In a letter to Jeroen Dijsselbloem, president of the eurozone finance ministers\u2019 group, obtained by Reuters, Greece\u2019s finance minister, Yanis Varoufakis, conceded that the Greek authorities would \u201crefrain from unilateral action that would undermine the fiscal targets, economic recovery and financial stability\u201d.Crucially, he said Greece would remain under the supervision of the European commission, the European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund \u2013 the unpopular troika that the Syriza-led government had insisted it would throw off. Related: Greece seeks six-month bailout extension - live updates Analysts at Deutsche Bank said the Greek plan represented \u201creasonable progress\u201d in meeting the demands of the Eurogroup; while the head of the European Trade Union Confederation accused Germany of \u201cplaying with fire\u201d by rejecting the Greek compromise. \u201cGermany is demanding unconditional surrender from a proud people that has elected a new Government on a crystal clear platform of easing austerity,\u201d said ETUC\u2019s general secretary, Bernadette S\u00e9gol. Aides to the Greek prime minister Alexis Tsipras insisted that the loan request respected the popular will of the Greek people.Calling it an \u201cinterim agreement,\u201d insiders said the request was significant for raising the issue of debt restructuring and including a pledge from the new government to keep to a balanced budget.\u201cIt\u2019s not very often that you get left-leaning governments making those sort of commitments,\u201d said one Greek official. \u201cThey\u2019ve clearly sought to strike a very fine balance between tackling the humanitarian disaster and promising to be a government that will not only tackle corruption and tax evasion, the malfunctions of Greek society, but take on all the vested interests that plague political and business life.\u201dIn Berlin, the request from Greece for an extension of its loan agreement \u2013 known as the \u201cmaster financial assistance facility agreement\u201d \u2013 is seen very differently. \u201cThe Greeks have simply tried to pass the buck back to the middle,\u201d Matthias Kullas from the Centre for European Politics in Freiburg said.He stressed the German reaction was not a rejection over reaching a compromise with Greece, but did mean that expectations of an agreement on Friday when finance ministers from the eurogroup meet again, were now \u201cslim\u201d.\u201cIf an agreement is reached, it will be at the last minute,\u201d he said. \u201cIt\u2019s in the interest of both sides to stick to their guns. The earlier one of them diverts from his course, the weaker his position becomes and the more elbow room he leaves for the other.\u201dRaoul Ruparel, the head of economic research at Open Europe, said the Greek government had little chance of getting the rest of the eurozone to back its plans on labour market reforms, pensions and privatisations.In a briefing paper published before Greece\u2019s latest request was rejected by Germany, he said the eurozone could give way on another one of Greece\u2019s key demands, to allow the government to run a smaller budget surplus, so freeing up money for social spending. \u201cThe Greek election represented a tipping point, meaning that the rest of the eurozone will have to consider some tradeoffs,\u201d he wrote. A spokesperson for the European commission president, Jean-Claude Juncker, said the letter was a positive sign that could pave the way for a reasonable compromise. Hopes of ending Greece\u2019s standoff with the eurozone pushed Greece\u2019s stock market up by nearly 3% on Thursday. The mood of investors was also boosted by the decision of the European Central Bank to allow Greece a further \u20ac3.3bn in emergency liquidity, bringing the total ECB help to Greek banks to \u20ac68.3bn.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Greece", "Banking", "Economics", "Euro", "Currencies", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "European Union", "European banks", "European monetary union", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Austerity"], "title": "Germany rejects Greece request for loan extension"},{"date": "2015-02-01T15:42:36Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German transport minister will be laying down legal guidelines for the use of driverless cars on the country\u2019s autobahns.Alexander Dobrindt said driverless or robot cars would probably become a feature on German roads within a few years, but insisted that some rules needed to be in place first.He has created a committee including figures from research, industry and politics, to draw up a legal framework that would make it permissible and would like a draft of key points to be ready before the Frankfurt car fair in September.Current rules do not allow self-drive or robot cars on German roads, because a human being always has to be at the controls, according to the 1968 Vienna Convention on Road Traffic to which Germany is signed up, along with 72 other countries.Questions to be clarified include who would be responsible when the car\u2019s computer fails causing an accident, how is a robot car is to be insured and how licences should be regulated?A few days ago Dobrindt announced he was designating a stretch of Germany\u2019s busy A9 autobahn in Bavaria for testing robot car prototypes.The German car industry has been working on driverless cars for years and expects the first commercially available models to be introduced by 2020.But the industry has become nervous about competing technology from Google, leading to a campaign within industry and politics in Germany to remain independent but ahead of the field. Nevertheless, the competition appears to be keeping everyone in the industry on their toes.In 2014 German carmaker Mercedes Benz presented its Future Truck 2025, a driverless vehicle which can reach speeds of up to 80kph (50mph), while the Audi prototype, the so-called RS7 which has a horsepower of 560, reached speeds of almost 240kph (150mph) when tested on Formula One\u2019s Hockenheim track.", "tags": ["Germany", "Robots", "Technology", "Automotive industry", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany creates laws for driverless cars"},{"date": "2015-02-14T13:24:53Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has proposed a draft law that would allow commercial shale gas fracking at depths of over 3,000 metres, overturning a de facto moratorium that has been in place since the start of the decade.A new six-person expert panel would also be empowered to allow fracks at shallower levelsShale gas industry groups welcomed the proposal for its potential to crack open the German shale gas market, but it has sparked outrage among environmentalists who view it as the thin edge of a fossil fuel wedge.Senior German officials say that the proposal, first mooted in July, is an environmental protection measure, wholly unrelated to energy security concerns which have been intensified by the conflict in Ukraine.\u201cIt is important to have a legal framework for hydraulic fracturing as until now there has been no legislation on the subject,\u201d Maria Krautzberger, president of Germany\u2019s federal environment agency (UBA), told the Guardian. \u201cWe have had a voluntary agreement with the big companies that there would be no fracking but if a company like Exxon wanted, they might do it anyway as there is no way to forbid it,\u201d she said. \u201cThis is a progressive step forward.\u201dThe draft law would only affect hydraulic fracturing for shale oil and tight gas in water protection and spring healing zones. The tight gas industry made up around 3% of German gas production before the moratorium, and, under the new proposals, could resume fracking in the Lower Saxony region where it is concentrated.Commercial fracking for shale gas and coal bed methane would be banned at levels below 3,000 metres, but allowed for exploration purposes at shallower levels, subject to the assessment of the expert panel.Environmentalists, however, were alarmed that half of the experts belong to institutions that signed the Hanover Declaration, calling for increased exploration of shale gas in Germany as a way of increasing energy security.\u201cIt is clear what these people are going to say,\u201d Jos\u00e9 Bov\u00e9, the French Green MEP, told the Guardian. \u201cThe panel is not going to be independent, but exactly what the companies are looking for. You don\u2019t need a panel to tell you that shale gas is dangerous. We can see the problems with water pollution, earthquakes and methane emissions. We need people to protest about it before the exploration begins.\u201dGermany is estimated to have 2.3tn cubic metres of shale gas reserves and industry groups say that its exploitation can help ease the country\u2019s energiewende transition away from coal, oil and nuclear energy, and assuage fears about the disruption of Russian gas supplies.\u201cThe reality is that Germany needs to ensure security of supply,\u201d said Marcus Pepperell, a spokesman for Shale Gas Europe. \u201cThat is what is driving the debate, and this is a pragmatic approach that allows Germany to respond to its energy requirements by exploring shale gas reserves with fracking.\u201dThe proposed law is just beginning its legislative passage and could still change in intergovernmental and parliamentary discussions, before a plenary vote in the Bundestag in May. If passed into law, the expert panel should be set up in 2018, and the following year could see the first fracking in Germany since 2011.Officials insisted that this would be on a small scale that would not challenge the central rationale of the energiewende \u2013 to increase renewable energy supplies.\u201cWe are on the side of the environmentalists,\u201d Krautzberger said. \u201cTheir goals are our goals but we say we should not close the door on a technology that might be fruitful in the future for exploring geothermal and other energies that do not harm the environment.\u201dUBA believes that currently expensive technologies to frack using warm air and warm water could one day unlock new energy extraction possibilities.\u201cWe are in a typical \u2018sandwich position\u2019 [between industry and environmental lobbies] but we think it\u2019s very unlikely that shale gas fracking will be developed in Germany and we say that there is no need for it as our future is in renewables,\u201d Krautzberger said. ", "tags": ["Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Gas", "Environment", "Germany", "Europe"], "title": "Germany moves to legalise fracking"},{"date": "2015-02-19T18:43:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany and Greece are on a collision course ahead of crucial bailout talks on Friday after Berlin knocked back a Greek compromise proposal and insisted the country stick to its existing austerity plan.Setting the scene for a make-or-break meeting in Brussels , the eurozone\u2019s largest economy dismissed as \u201cnot substantive\u201d a proposal from Greek finance minister Yanis Varoufakis,which appeared to have all but capitulated to creditors\u2019 demands. Related: Varoufakis and the Greek-German standoff | Letters The rebuff from Berlin came just hours after Greece filed a formal request to its eurozone partners to extend its loan agreement, in the hope of averting a cash crisis.A Greek government spokesman insisted that the eurogroup had only two options: either to accept or reject the Greek request. \u201cIt will then be clear who wants to find a solution and who doesn\u2019t.\u201dThe European commission welcomed the Greek proposal \u2013 widely seen as a climbdown on some of Greece\u2019s key demands \u2013 as a positive sign that could pave the way for compromise.But in a sign of divisions within the EU, Germany said the Greek plan failed to meet eurozone ministers\u2019 demands that Greece stick to its bailout programme \u2013 a set of conditions laid out on Monday at an acrimonious meeting in Brussels that failed to end the deadlock.Greece needs unanimous backing from the other 18 eurozone finance ministers to secure a deal.\u201cThe letter from Athens is not a proposal that leads to a substantial solution,\u201d finance ministry spokesman Martin Jaeger said.\u201cIn truth it goes in the direction of a bridge financing, without fulfilling the demands of the programme. The letter does not meet the criteria agreed by the Eurogroup on Monday.\u201dGermany\u2019s rejection heightened the uncertainty around Friday\u2019s meeting, which will be the eurozone\u2019s third attempt in 10 days to resolve a standoff that has sent jitters across the continent at the prospect of a messy Greek exit from the single currency.One source said: \u201cI am sort of asking, what the fuck, are they [ministers] really going to come again and have no agreement.\u201d The source said everyone hoped for an agreement, but added: \u201cThere has not been much support [for the plan], it seems Greece will find it difficult.\u201d Others expect a compromise will be found at the last minute. \u201cProbably the Greeks will move but there is going to be more negotiation needed to find an agreement,\u201d said another source.The Greek government, which is under fire from radical ultra-leftists for making the loan application, described the latest proposal as a way to deal with the country\u2019s \u201chumanitarian crisis\u201d and kickstart the economy. But the request was widely viewed as a climbdown by the Greek government.In an effort to break the impasse in advance of Friday\u2019s meeting of euro group finance ministers \u2013 their third this week \u2013 the Greek prime minister AlexisTsipras and German chancellor Angela Merkel discussed the crisis for almost an hour late Thursday evening.Officials in Athens described the talks - interpreted by official translators and not conducted in English - as \u201cconstructive,\u201d saying both had conveyed the desire to find a solution.Merkel, they added, had assumed a more conciliatory stance than her finance minister Wolfgang Schauble. The German chancellorhas repeatedly said she wants Greece to remain in the single currency.Earlier, Tsipras spoke with the French and Italian leaders. The French president Fran\u00e7ois Hollande was also quoted in the Greek media as saying he was willing to support Athens. In a letter to Jeroen Dijsselbloem, president of the eurozone finance ministers\u2019 group, obtained by Reuters, Greece\u2019s finance minister, Yanis Varoufakis, conceded that the Greek authorities would \u201crefrain from unilateral action that would undermine the fiscal targets, economic recovery and financial stability\u201d.Crucially, he said Greece would remain under the supervision of the European commission, the European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund \u2013 the unpopular troika that the Syriza-led government had insisted it would throw off. Related: Greece seeks six-month bailout extension - live updates Analysts at Deutsche Bank said the Greek plan represented \u201creasonable progress\u201d in meeting the demands of the Eurogroup; while the head of the European Trade Union Confederation accused Germany of \u201cplaying with fire\u201d by rejecting the Greek compromise. \u201cGermany is demanding unconditional surrender from a proud people that has elected a new Government on a crystal clear platform of easing austerity,\u201d said ETUC\u2019s general secretary, Bernadette S\u00e9gol. Aides to the Greek prime minister Alexis Tsipras insisted that the loan request respected the popular will of the Greek people.Calling it an \u201cinterim agreement,\u201d insiders said the request was significant for raising the issue of debt restructuring and including a pledge from the new government to keep to a balanced budget.\u201cIt\u2019s not very often that you get left-leaning governments making those sort of commitments,\u201d said one Greek official. \u201cThey\u2019ve clearly sought to strike a very fine balance between tackling the humanitarian disaster and promising to be a government that will not only tackle corruption and tax evasion, the malfunctions of Greek society, but take on all the vested interests that plague political and business life.\u201dIn Berlin, the request from Greece for an extension of its loan agreement \u2013 known as the \u201cmaster financial assistance facility agreement\u201d \u2013 is seen very differently. \u201cThe Greeks have simply tried to pass the buck back to the middle,\u201d Matthias Kullas from the Centre for European Politics in Freiburg said.He stressed the German reaction was not a rejection over reaching a compromise with Greece, but did mean that expectations of an agreement on Friday when finance ministers from the eurogroup meet again, were now \u201cslim\u201d.\u201cIf an agreement is reached, it will be at the last minute,\u201d he said. \u201cIt\u2019s in the interest of both sides to stick to their guns. The earlier one of them diverts from his course, the weaker his position becomes and the more elbow room he leaves for the other.\u201dRaoul Ruparel, the head of economic research at Open Europe, said the Greek government had little chance of getting the rest of the eurozone to back its plans on labour market reforms, pensions and privatisations.In a briefing paper published before Greece\u2019s latest request was rejected by Germany, he said the eurozone could give way on another one of Greece\u2019s key demands, to allow the government to run a smaller budget surplus, so freeing up money for social spending. \u201cThe Greek election represented a tipping point, meaning that the rest of the eurozone will have to consider some tradeoffs,\u201d he wrote. A spokesperson for the European commission president, Jean-Claude Juncker, said the letter was a positive sign that could pave the way for a reasonable compromise. Hopes of ending Greece\u2019s standoff with the eurozone pushed Greece\u2019s stock market up by nearly 3% on Thursday. The mood of investors was also boosted by the decision of the European Central Bank to allow Greece a further \u20ac3.3bn in emergency liquidity, bringing the total ECB help to Greek banks to \u20ac68.3bn.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Greece", "Banking", "Economics", "Euro", "Currencies", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "European Union", "European banks", "European monetary union", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Austerity"], "title": "Germany rejects Greece request for loan extension"},{"date": "2015-02-01T15:42:36Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German transport minister will be laying down legal guidelines for the use of driverless cars on the country\u2019s autobahns.Alexander Dobrindt said driverless or robot cars would probably become a feature on German roads within a few years, but insisted that some rules needed to be in place first.He has created a committee including figures from research, industry and politics, to draw up a legal framework that would make it permissible and would like a draft of key points to be ready before the Frankfurt car fair in September.Current rules do not allow self-drive or robot cars on German roads, because a human being always has to be at the controls, according to the 1968 Vienna Convention on Road Traffic to which Germany is signed up, along with 72 other countries.Questions to be clarified include who would be responsible when the car\u2019s computer fails causing an accident, how is a robot car is to be insured and how licences should be regulated?A few days ago Dobrindt announced he was designating a stretch of Germany\u2019s busy A9 autobahn in Bavaria for testing robot car prototypes.The German car industry has been working on driverless cars for years and expects the first commercially available models to be introduced by 2020.But the industry has become nervous about competing technology from Google, leading to a campaign within industry and politics in Germany to remain independent but ahead of the field. Nevertheless, the competition appears to be keeping everyone in the industry on their toes.In 2014 German carmaker Mercedes Benz presented its Future Truck 2025, a driverless vehicle which can reach speeds of up to 80kph (50mph), while the Audi prototype, the so-called RS7 which has a horsepower of 560, reached speeds of almost 240kph (150mph) when tested on Formula One\u2019s Hockenheim track.", "tags": ["Germany", "Robots", "Technology", "Automotive industry", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany creates laws for driverless cars"},{"date": "2015-01-22T17:36:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "When the German public was first confronted with the anglicism \u201cquantitative easing\u201d around 2009, opinion makers in the media wasted no time coming up with metaphors for this abstract financial process. Soon the German press was describing governments purchasing assets via their central banks as a \u201ccash tsunami\u201d or \u201cprinting money\u201d.Genuine money-printing machines haven\u2019t been an instrument of central bank policy for decades, yet the image is part of the public discourse \u2013 and the German public will look at today\u2019s European Central Bank (ECB) announcement in that light: Mario Draghi has switched on the money printer because he\u2019s run out of other options.And in Germany this image will always awaken the ghosts of the past: speak of QE and from the crypt of history rise horrifying visions of handcarts full of devalued marks. Every debate about monetary policy is flavoured by the scars of the 1920s hyperinflation. The majority of politicians, economists and leader writers in Germany appear to agree that QE is a dangerous form of alchemy.What most people overlook is that the parallels between the 1920s and today are superficial at best. If in 1923 the Reichsbank literally handed over a large sum of cash to the government so it could appease striking workers, QE today is all about encouraging banks to lend more credit to businesses and individuals at a time where the willingness to invest is close to collapse.Of course there are risks involved in QE, as there are with every intervention in the market. The banks could get addicted to cheap money or throw themselves into risky deals, inflation could run out of control, the external value of the euro could collapse. In Germany these are the most commonly voiced concerns, along with warnings about speculative bubbles. But economics is an empirical science, and Germany, like the eurozone as a whole, has the advantage that it can assuage its fears with the experiences of other economic areas that have tried QE recently.Half a decade of asset purchases in America and the UK may be too short a period for a conclusive assessment, but we can surely afford to proclaim an interim result: the worst-case scenario never happened. The American Federal Reserve has purchased assets worth \u20ac3,900bn, the Bank of England around \u20ac500bn. Statistics show a price increase of less than 1%. The currency didn\u2019t go through the roof in either country. The spectre of inflation is nowhere in sight.Let\u2019s remember that some serious economists had prophesied a price increase of 4%-6%, and other less serious commentators had even warned of inflation in double figures.Fears about a sudden drop in the exchange rate never became a reality either. In spite of QE, the dollar and the pound are currencies that have in recent years strengthened against the euro. What about speculation bubbles? We have undoubtedly seen a tendency towards overvaluation on the stock market and in property. But a few isolated instances apart, these haven\u2019t reached the excesses we have seen in the past.On the plus side we also see that employment has grown more in QE-practising countries than in the eurozone. Unemployment figures in southern Europe \u2013 26% in Greece and 24% in Spain \u2013 are some of the highest in the world. For now the eurozone is still the most important market for German goods, but in the long run its export-focused economy cannot flourish when its European partners are suffering.From a German perspective, there are therefore many reasons to approve of the ECB\u2019s asset-buying programme. From a legal perspective, the central bank can refer to its mandate of aiming for a price stability of roughly 2% and avoiding a deflation spiral that would lead to decades without growth or investment.The problem is that even if QE were a big success, it will hardly be met with euphoria in Germany. Alienated by the commentators\u2019 rhetoric, many German citizens now blame the ECB for microscopic interest rates on their savings. Because many Germans rely on their savings to look after them in old age, they now see their pension plans under threat. Shares and bonds only play a bit role in this debate. It is above all the middle classes, who mostly haven\u2019t invested their assets in property, who see their prosperity under threat.And QE has another uncomfortable consequence in Germany: unlike the US or the UK, the eurozone isn\u2019t a nation state. If the whole experiment fails, who is going to shoulder the blame? Who will have to cough up if, for example, the Italian central bank were to make a loss on its investment? Will those losses stay in Italy or will the debts somehow be shared across Europe?And in that respect the ECB\u2019s \u201cbazooka\u201d brings back the kind of uncomfortable questions governments prefer not to answer: what kind of union is the eurozone? Is it a union of sovereign national states with access to a single market, or a supernational community of values with limited sovereignty? Monetary policy alone cannot answer these questions. The ECB can only help to make sure that these fundamental issues are worked out from a platform of growing prosperity rather than in a time of crisis and decline.", "tags": ["Germany", "Quantitative easing", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Euro", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Europe", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Germany shouldn\u2019t be afraid of QE | Daniel Eckert"},{"date": "2015-02-14T13:24:53Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has proposed a draft law that would allow commercial shale gas fracking at depths of over 3,000 metres, overturning a de facto moratorium that has been in place since the start of the decade.A new six-person expert panel would also be empowered to allow fracks at shallower levelsShale gas industry groups welcomed the proposal for its potential to crack open the German shale gas market, but it has sparked outrage among environmentalists who view it as the thin edge of a fossil fuel wedge.Senior German officials say that the proposal, first mooted in July, is an environmental protection measure, wholly unrelated to energy security concerns which have been intensified by the conflict in Ukraine.\u201cIt is important to have a legal framework for hydraulic fracturing as until now there has been no legislation on the subject,\u201d Maria Krautzberger, president of Germany\u2019s federal environment agency (UBA), told the Guardian. \u201cWe have had a voluntary agreement with the big companies that there would be no fracking but if a company like Exxon wanted, they might do it anyway as there is no way to forbid it,\u201d she said. \u201cThis is a progressive step forward.\u201dThe draft law would only affect hydraulic fracturing for shale oil and tight gas in water protection and spring healing zones. The tight gas industry made up around 3% of German gas production before the moratorium, and, under the new proposals, could resume fracking in the Lower Saxony region where it is concentrated.Commercial fracking for shale gas and coal bed methane would be banned at levels below 3,000 metres, but allowed for exploration purposes at shallower levels, subject to the assessment of the expert panel.Environmentalists, however, were alarmed that half of the experts belong to institutions that signed the Hanover Declaration, calling for increased exploration of shale gas in Germany as a way of increasing energy security.\u201cIt is clear what these people are going to say,\u201d Jos\u00e9 Bov\u00e9, the French Green MEP, told the Guardian. \u201cThe panel is not going to be independent, but exactly what the companies are looking for. You don\u2019t need a panel to tell you that shale gas is dangerous. We can see the problems with water pollution, earthquakes and methane emissions. We need people to protest about it before the exploration begins.\u201dGermany is estimated to have 2.3tn cubic metres of shale gas reserves and industry groups say that its exploitation can help ease the country\u2019s energiewende transition away from coal, oil and nuclear energy, and assuage fears about the disruption of Russian gas supplies.\u201cThe reality is that Germany needs to ensure security of supply,\u201d said Marcus Pepperell, a spokesman for Shale Gas Europe. \u201cThat is what is driving the debate, and this is a pragmatic approach that allows Germany to respond to its energy requirements by exploring shale gas reserves with fracking.\u201dThe proposed law is just beginning its legislative passage and could still change in intergovernmental and parliamentary discussions, before a plenary vote in the Bundestag in May. If passed into law, the expert panel should be set up in 2018, and the following year could see the first fracking in Germany since 2011.Officials insisted that this would be on a small scale that would not challenge the central rationale of the energiewende \u2013 to increase renewable energy supplies.\u201cWe are on the side of the environmentalists,\u201d Krautzberger said. \u201cTheir goals are our goals but we say we should not close the door on a technology that might be fruitful in the future for exploring geothermal and other energies that do not harm the environment.\u201dUBA believes that currently expensive technologies to frack using warm air and warm water could one day unlock new energy extraction possibilities.\u201cWe are in a typical \u2018sandwich position\u2019 [between industry and environmental lobbies] but we think it\u2019s very unlikely that shale gas fracking will be developed in Germany and we say that there is no need for it as our future is in renewables,\u201d Krautzberger said. ", "tags": ["Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Gas", "Environment", "Germany", "Europe"], "title": "Germany moves to legalise fracking"},{"date": "2015-02-19T18:43:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany and Greece are on a collision course ahead of crucial bailout talks on Friday after Berlin knocked back a Greek compromise proposal and insisted the country stick to its existing austerity plan.Setting the scene for a make-or-break meeting in Brussels , the eurozone\u2019s largest economy dismissed as \u201cnot substantive\u201d a proposal from Greek finance minister Yanis Varoufakis,which appeared to have all but capitulated to creditors\u2019 demands. Related: Varoufakis and the Greek-German standoff | Letters The rebuff from Berlin came just hours after Greece filed a formal request to its eurozone partners to extend its loan agreement, in the hope of averting a cash crisis.A Greek government spokesman insisted that the eurogroup had only two options: either to accept or reject the Greek request. \u201cIt will then be clear who wants to find a solution and who doesn\u2019t.\u201dThe European commission welcomed the Greek proposal \u2013 widely seen as a climbdown on some of Greece\u2019s key demands \u2013 as a positive sign that could pave the way for compromise.But in a sign of divisions within the EU, Germany said the Greek plan failed to meet eurozone ministers\u2019 demands that Greece stick to its bailout programme \u2013 a set of conditions laid out on Monday at an acrimonious meeting in Brussels that failed to end the deadlock.Greece needs unanimous backing from the other 18 eurozone finance ministers to secure a deal.\u201cThe letter from Athens is not a proposal that leads to a substantial solution,\u201d finance ministry spokesman Martin Jaeger said.\u201cIn truth it goes in the direction of a bridge financing, without fulfilling the demands of the programme. The letter does not meet the criteria agreed by the Eurogroup on Monday.\u201dGermany\u2019s rejection heightened the uncertainty around Friday\u2019s meeting, which will be the eurozone\u2019s third attempt in 10 days to resolve a standoff that has sent jitters across the continent at the prospect of a messy Greek exit from the single currency.One source said: \u201cI am sort of asking, what the fuck, are they [ministers] really going to come again and have no agreement.\u201d The source said everyone hoped for an agreement, but added: \u201cThere has not been much support [for the plan], it seems Greece will find it difficult.\u201d Others expect a compromise will be found at the last minute. \u201cProbably the Greeks will move but there is going to be more negotiation needed to find an agreement,\u201d said another source.The Greek government, which is under fire from radical ultra-leftists for making the loan application, described the latest proposal as a way to deal with the country\u2019s \u201chumanitarian crisis\u201d and kickstart the economy. But the request was widely viewed as a climbdown by the Greek government.In an effort to break the impasse in advance of Friday\u2019s meeting of euro group finance ministers \u2013 their third this week \u2013 the Greek prime minister AlexisTsipras and German chancellor Angela Merkel discussed the crisis for almost an hour late Thursday evening.Officials in Athens described the talks - interpreted by official translators and not conducted in English - as \u201cconstructive,\u201d saying both had conveyed the desire to find a solution.Merkel, they added, had assumed a more conciliatory stance than her finance minister Wolfgang Schauble. The German chancellorhas repeatedly said she wants Greece to remain in the single currency.Earlier, Tsipras spoke with the French and Italian leaders. The French president Fran\u00e7ois Hollande was also quoted in the Greek media as saying he was willing to support Athens. In a letter to Jeroen Dijsselbloem, president of the eurozone finance ministers\u2019 group, obtained by Reuters, Greece\u2019s finance minister, Yanis Varoufakis, conceded that the Greek authorities would \u201crefrain from unilateral action that would undermine the fiscal targets, economic recovery and financial stability\u201d.Crucially, he said Greece would remain under the supervision of the European commission, the European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund \u2013 the unpopular troika that the Syriza-led government had insisted it would throw off. Related: Greece seeks six-month bailout extension - live updates Analysts at Deutsche Bank said the Greek plan represented \u201creasonable progress\u201d in meeting the demands of the Eurogroup; while the head of the European Trade Union Confederation accused Germany of \u201cplaying with fire\u201d by rejecting the Greek compromise. \u201cGermany is demanding unconditional surrender from a proud people that has elected a new Government on a crystal clear platform of easing austerity,\u201d said ETUC\u2019s general secretary, Bernadette S\u00e9gol. Aides to the Greek prime minister Alexis Tsipras insisted that the loan request respected the popular will of the Greek people.Calling it an \u201cinterim agreement,\u201d insiders said the request was significant for raising the issue of debt restructuring and including a pledge from the new government to keep to a balanced budget.\u201cIt\u2019s not very often that you get left-leaning governments making those sort of commitments,\u201d said one Greek official. \u201cThey\u2019ve clearly sought to strike a very fine balance between tackling the humanitarian disaster and promising to be a government that will not only tackle corruption and tax evasion, the malfunctions of Greek society, but take on all the vested interests that plague political and business life.\u201dIn Berlin, the request from Greece for an extension of its loan agreement \u2013 known as the \u201cmaster financial assistance facility agreement\u201d \u2013 is seen very differently. \u201cThe Greeks have simply tried to pass the buck back to the middle,\u201d Matthias Kullas from the Centre for European Politics in Freiburg said.He stressed the German reaction was not a rejection over reaching a compromise with Greece, but did mean that expectations of an agreement on Friday when finance ministers from the eurogroup meet again, were now \u201cslim\u201d.\u201cIf an agreement is reached, it will be at the last minute,\u201d he said. \u201cIt\u2019s in the interest of both sides to stick to their guns. The earlier one of them diverts from his course, the weaker his position becomes and the more elbow room he leaves for the other.\u201dRaoul Ruparel, the head of economic research at Open Europe, said the Greek government had little chance of getting the rest of the eurozone to back its plans on labour market reforms, pensions and privatisations.In a briefing paper published before Greece\u2019s latest request was rejected by Germany, he said the eurozone could give way on another one of Greece\u2019s key demands, to allow the government to run a smaller budget surplus, so freeing up money for social spending. \u201cThe Greek election represented a tipping point, meaning that the rest of the eurozone will have to consider some tradeoffs,\u201d he wrote. A spokesperson for the European commission president, Jean-Claude Juncker, said the letter was a positive sign that could pave the way for a reasonable compromise. Hopes of ending Greece\u2019s standoff with the eurozone pushed Greece\u2019s stock market up by nearly 3% on Thursday. The mood of investors was also boosted by the decision of the European Central Bank to allow Greece a further \u20ac3.3bn in emergency liquidity, bringing the total ECB help to Greek banks to \u20ac68.3bn.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Greece", "Banking", "Economics", "Euro", "Currencies", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "European Union", "European banks", "European monetary union", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Austerity"], "title": "Germany rejects Greece request for loan extension"},{"date": "2015-02-01T15:42:36Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German transport minister will be laying down legal guidelines for the use of driverless cars on the country\u2019s autobahns.Alexander Dobrindt said driverless or robot cars would probably become a feature on German roads within a few years, but insisted that some rules needed to be in place first.He has created a committee including figures from research, industry and politics, to draw up a legal framework that would make it permissible and would like a draft of key points to be ready before the Frankfurt car fair in September.Current rules do not allow self-drive or robot cars on German roads, because a human being always has to be at the controls, according to the 1968 Vienna Convention on Road Traffic to which Germany is signed up, along with 72 other countries.Questions to be clarified include who would be responsible when the car\u2019s computer fails causing an accident, how is a robot car is to be insured and how licences should be regulated?A few days ago Dobrindt announced he was designating a stretch of Germany\u2019s busy A9 autobahn in Bavaria for testing robot car prototypes.The German car industry has been working on driverless cars for years and expects the first commercially available models to be introduced by 2020.But the industry has become nervous about competing technology from Google, leading to a campaign within industry and politics in Germany to remain independent but ahead of the field. Nevertheless, the competition appears to be keeping everyone in the industry on their toes.In 2014 German carmaker Mercedes Benz presented its Future Truck 2025, a driverless vehicle which can reach speeds of up to 80kph (50mph), while the Audi prototype, the so-called RS7 which has a horsepower of 560, reached speeds of almost 240kph (150mph) when tested on Formula One\u2019s Hockenheim track.", "tags": ["Germany", "Robots", "Technology", "Automotive industry", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany creates laws for driverless cars"},{"date": "2015-01-22T17:36:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "When the German public was first confronted with the anglicism \u201cquantitative easing\u201d around 2009, opinion makers in the media wasted no time coming up with metaphors for this abstract financial process. Soon the German press was describing governments purchasing assets via their central banks as a \u201ccash tsunami\u201d or \u201cprinting money\u201d.Genuine money-printing machines haven\u2019t been an instrument of central bank policy for decades, yet the image is part of the public discourse \u2013 and the German public will look at today\u2019s European Central Bank (ECB) announcement in that light: Mario Draghi has switched on the money printer because he\u2019s run out of other options.And in Germany this image will always awaken the ghosts of the past: speak of QE and from the crypt of history rise horrifying visions of handcarts full of devalued marks. Every debate about monetary policy is flavoured by the scars of the 1920s hyperinflation. The majority of politicians, economists and leader writers in Germany appear to agree that QE is a dangerous form of alchemy.What most people overlook is that the parallels between the 1920s and today are superficial at best. If in 1923 the Reichsbank literally handed over a large sum of cash to the government so it could appease striking workers, QE today is all about encouraging banks to lend more credit to businesses and individuals at a time where the willingness to invest is close to collapse.Of course there are risks involved in QE, as there are with every intervention in the market. The banks could get addicted to cheap money or throw themselves into risky deals, inflation could run out of control, the external value of the euro could collapse. In Germany these are the most commonly voiced concerns, along with warnings about speculative bubbles. But economics is an empirical science, and Germany, like the eurozone as a whole, has the advantage that it can assuage its fears with the experiences of other economic areas that have tried QE recently.Half a decade of asset purchases in America and the UK may be too short a period for a conclusive assessment, but we can surely afford to proclaim an interim result: the worst-case scenario never happened. The American Federal Reserve has purchased assets worth \u20ac3,900bn, the Bank of England around \u20ac500bn. Statistics show a price increase of less than 1%. The currency didn\u2019t go through the roof in either country. The spectre of inflation is nowhere in sight.Let\u2019s remember that some serious economists had prophesied a price increase of 4%-6%, and other less serious commentators had even warned of inflation in double figures.Fears about a sudden drop in the exchange rate never became a reality either. In spite of QE, the dollar and the pound are currencies that have in recent years strengthened against the euro. What about speculation bubbles? We have undoubtedly seen a tendency towards overvaluation on the stock market and in property. But a few isolated instances apart, these haven\u2019t reached the excesses we have seen in the past.On the plus side we also see that employment has grown more in QE-practising countries than in the eurozone. Unemployment figures in southern Europe \u2013 26% in Greece and 24% in Spain \u2013 are some of the highest in the world. For now the eurozone is still the most important market for German goods, but in the long run its export-focused economy cannot flourish when its European partners are suffering.From a German perspective, there are therefore many reasons to approve of the ECB\u2019s asset-buying programme. From a legal perspective, the central bank can refer to its mandate of aiming for a price stability of roughly 2% and avoiding a deflation spiral that would lead to decades without growth or investment.The problem is that even if QE were a big success, it will hardly be met with euphoria in Germany. Alienated by the commentators\u2019 rhetoric, many German citizens now blame the ECB for microscopic interest rates on their savings. Because many Germans rely on their savings to look after them in old age, they now see their pension plans under threat. Shares and bonds only play a bit role in this debate. It is above all the middle classes, who mostly haven\u2019t invested their assets in property, who see their prosperity under threat.And QE has another uncomfortable consequence in Germany: unlike the US or the UK, the eurozone isn\u2019t a nation state. If the whole experiment fails, who is going to shoulder the blame? Who will have to cough up if, for example, the Italian central bank were to make a loss on its investment? Will those losses stay in Italy or will the debts somehow be shared across Europe?And in that respect the ECB\u2019s \u201cbazooka\u201d brings back the kind of uncomfortable questions governments prefer not to answer: what kind of union is the eurozone? Is it a union of sovereign national states with access to a single market, or a supernational community of values with limited sovereignty? Monetary policy alone cannot answer these questions. The ECB can only help to make sure that these fundamental issues are worked out from a platform of growing prosperity rather than in a time of crisis and decline.", "tags": ["Germany", "Quantitative easing", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Euro", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Europe", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Germany shouldn\u2019t be afraid of QE | Daniel Eckert"},{"date": "2015-03-22T17:27:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The radical Greek prime minister, Alexis Tsipras, will meet the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, on Monday amid strained relationships between the two countries over Germany\u2019s hardline stance on Greece\u2019s debt crisis.A senior figure in Merkel\u2019s junior coalition partner called on Tsipras to present a firm list of reforms at his meeting with Merkel, on his first official visit to Germany since his election.\u201cI want to see if Greece is finally prepared to make real reforms or not,\u201d said Thomas Oppermann, parliamentary leader of the Social Democrats.\u201cTsipras announced he would present a complete list of precise reforms,\u201d Oppermann said in an interview in Der Spiegel. \u201cI expect him to present this list during his conversation with chancellor Merkel on Monday.\u201d Tsipras has blamed Merkel\u2019s insistence on tough austerity for his country\u2019s \u201chumanitarian crisis\u201d of poverty and mass unemployment.Merkel, for her part, maintains that if cash-strapped Greece wants more international bailout loans, of which Germany stumps up the biggest share, it must accept the bitter medicine of cuts and reforms.Speaking to the Greek newspaper Kathimerini before the visit, Tsipras said the meeting with Merkel would be an opportunity to talk \u201cwithout the pressure of any negotiation\u201d, adding: \u201cIt\u2019s important because we will be able to talk about topics which are damaging Europe, and about how to improve relations between our two countries.\u201dThe row between the two countries has dominated the German media over the past week, exacerbated by the broadcast last Sunday of a two-year-old video showing the Greek finance minister, Yanis Varoufakis, apparently raising his middle finger to Germany.\u201cTsipras has to recognise that the zig-zag manoeuvring of finance minister Varoufakis has damaged his government in Europe,\u201d Oppermann added.Asked what he expected from Merkel during the meeting, he said, \u201cIt\u2019s Tsipras\u2019 move now, not Merkel\u2019s.\u201dDer Spiegel\u2019s latest cover reflects the mood of confrontation. Beneath the headline, How Europeans see Germans - the German supremacy, the magazine printed an image of senior Nazi officers next to the Parthenon in occupied Athens during the second world war with Merkel standing among them smiling.Germany\u2019s opposition leaders have taken a more conciliatory stance, with the Green party chairwoman, Simone Peters, calling on both Merkel and Tsipras to \u201cget over the primitive rhetoric of the past weeks and give German-Greek relations a new chance\u201d.\u201cA social reform course from the Greeks must find the support of the government as much as reviving sustainable investments and the relief of Greece\u2019s oppressive debt burden,\u201d she told German news agency DPA.AFP contributed to this report", "tags": ["Greece", "Angela Merkel", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Alexis Tsipras", "Syriza", "Eurozone"], "title": "Tsipras to meet Merkel amid tensions between Greece and Germany"},{"date": "2015-02-14T13:24:53Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has proposed a draft law that would allow commercial shale gas fracking at depths of over 3,000 metres, overturning a de facto moratorium that has been in place since the start of the decade.A new six-person expert panel would also be empowered to allow fracks at shallower levelsShale gas industry groups welcomed the proposal for its potential to crack open the German shale gas market, but it has sparked outrage among environmentalists who view it as the thin edge of a fossil fuel wedge.Senior German officials say that the proposal, first mooted in July, is an environmental protection measure, wholly unrelated to energy security concerns which have been intensified by the conflict in Ukraine.\u201cIt is important to have a legal framework for hydraulic fracturing as until now there has been no legislation on the subject,\u201d Maria Krautzberger, president of Germany\u2019s federal environment agency (UBA), told the Guardian. \u201cWe have had a voluntary agreement with the big companies that there would be no fracking but if a company like Exxon wanted, they might do it anyway as there is no way to forbid it,\u201d she said. \u201cThis is a progressive step forward.\u201dThe draft law would only affect hydraulic fracturing for shale oil and tight gas in water protection and spring healing zones. The tight gas industry made up around 3% of German gas production before the moratorium, and, under the new proposals, could resume fracking in the Lower Saxony region where it is concentrated.Commercial fracking for shale gas and coal bed methane would be banned at levels below 3,000 metres, but allowed for exploration purposes at shallower levels, subject to the assessment of the expert panel.Environmentalists, however, were alarmed that half of the experts belong to institutions that signed the Hanover Declaration, calling for increased exploration of shale gas in Germany as a way of increasing energy security.\u201cIt is clear what these people are going to say,\u201d Jos\u00e9 Bov\u00e9, the French Green MEP, told the Guardian. \u201cThe panel is not going to be independent, but exactly what the companies are looking for. You don\u2019t need a panel to tell you that shale gas is dangerous. We can see the problems with water pollution, earthquakes and methane emissions. We need people to protest about it before the exploration begins.\u201dGermany is estimated to have 2.3tn cubic metres of shale gas reserves and industry groups say that its exploitation can help ease the country\u2019s energiewende transition away from coal, oil and nuclear energy, and assuage fears about the disruption of Russian gas supplies.\u201cThe reality is that Germany needs to ensure security of supply,\u201d said Marcus Pepperell, a spokesman for Shale Gas Europe. \u201cThat is what is driving the debate, and this is a pragmatic approach that allows Germany to respond to its energy requirements by exploring shale gas reserves with fracking.\u201dThe proposed law is just beginning its legislative passage and could still change in intergovernmental and parliamentary discussions, before a plenary vote in the Bundestag in May. If passed into law, the expert panel should be set up in 2018, and the following year could see the first fracking in Germany since 2011.Officials insisted that this would be on a small scale that would not challenge the central rationale of the energiewende \u2013 to increase renewable energy supplies.\u201cWe are on the side of the environmentalists,\u201d Krautzberger said. \u201cTheir goals are our goals but we say we should not close the door on a technology that might be fruitful in the future for exploring geothermal and other energies that do not harm the environment.\u201dUBA believes that currently expensive technologies to frack using warm air and warm water could one day unlock new energy extraction possibilities.\u201cWe are in a typical \u2018sandwich position\u2019 [between industry and environmental lobbies] but we think it\u2019s very unlikely that shale gas fracking will be developed in Germany and we say that there is no need for it as our future is in renewables,\u201d Krautzberger said. ", "tags": ["Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Gas", "Environment", "Germany", "Europe"], "title": "Germany moves to legalise fracking"},{"date": "2015-02-19T18:43:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany and Greece are on a collision course ahead of crucial bailout talks on Friday after Berlin knocked back a Greek compromise proposal and insisted the country stick to its existing austerity plan.Setting the scene for a make-or-break meeting in Brussels , the eurozone\u2019s largest economy dismissed as \u201cnot substantive\u201d a proposal from Greek finance minister Yanis Varoufakis,which appeared to have all but capitulated to creditors\u2019 demands. Related: Varoufakis and the Greek-German standoff | Letters The rebuff from Berlin came just hours after Greece filed a formal request to its eurozone partners to extend its loan agreement, in the hope of averting a cash crisis.A Greek government spokesman insisted that the eurogroup had only two options: either to accept or reject the Greek request. \u201cIt will then be clear who wants to find a solution and who doesn\u2019t.\u201dThe European commission welcomed the Greek proposal \u2013 widely seen as a climbdown on some of Greece\u2019s key demands \u2013 as a positive sign that could pave the way for compromise.But in a sign of divisions within the EU, Germany said the Greek plan failed to meet eurozone ministers\u2019 demands that Greece stick to its bailout programme \u2013 a set of conditions laid out on Monday at an acrimonious meeting in Brussels that failed to end the deadlock.Greece needs unanimous backing from the other 18 eurozone finance ministers to secure a deal.\u201cThe letter from Athens is not a proposal that leads to a substantial solution,\u201d finance ministry spokesman Martin Jaeger said.\u201cIn truth it goes in the direction of a bridge financing, without fulfilling the demands of the programme. The letter does not meet the criteria agreed by the Eurogroup on Monday.\u201dGermany\u2019s rejection heightened the uncertainty around Friday\u2019s meeting, which will be the eurozone\u2019s third attempt in 10 days to resolve a standoff that has sent jitters across the continent at the prospect of a messy Greek exit from the single currency.One source said: \u201cI am sort of asking, what the fuck, are they [ministers] really going to come again and have no agreement.\u201d The source said everyone hoped for an agreement, but added: \u201cThere has not been much support [for the plan], it seems Greece will find it difficult.\u201d Others expect a compromise will be found at the last minute. \u201cProbably the Greeks will move but there is going to be more negotiation needed to find an agreement,\u201d said another source.The Greek government, which is under fire from radical ultra-leftists for making the loan application, described the latest proposal as a way to deal with the country\u2019s \u201chumanitarian crisis\u201d and kickstart the economy. But the request was widely viewed as a climbdown by the Greek government.In an effort to break the impasse in advance of Friday\u2019s meeting of euro group finance ministers \u2013 their third this week \u2013 the Greek prime minister AlexisTsipras and German chancellor Angela Merkel discussed the crisis for almost an hour late Thursday evening.Officials in Athens described the talks - interpreted by official translators and not conducted in English - as \u201cconstructive,\u201d saying both had conveyed the desire to find a solution.Merkel, they added, had assumed a more conciliatory stance than her finance minister Wolfgang Schauble. The German chancellorhas repeatedly said she wants Greece to remain in the single currency.Earlier, Tsipras spoke with the French and Italian leaders. The French president Fran\u00e7ois Hollande was also quoted in the Greek media as saying he was willing to support Athens. In a letter to Jeroen Dijsselbloem, president of the eurozone finance ministers\u2019 group, obtained by Reuters, Greece\u2019s finance minister, Yanis Varoufakis, conceded that the Greek authorities would \u201crefrain from unilateral action that would undermine the fiscal targets, economic recovery and financial stability\u201d.Crucially, he said Greece would remain under the supervision of the European commission, the European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund \u2013 the unpopular troika that the Syriza-led government had insisted it would throw off. Related: Greece seeks six-month bailout extension - live updates Analysts at Deutsche Bank said the Greek plan represented \u201creasonable progress\u201d in meeting the demands of the Eurogroup; while the head of the European Trade Union Confederation accused Germany of \u201cplaying with fire\u201d by rejecting the Greek compromise. \u201cGermany is demanding unconditional surrender from a proud people that has elected a new Government on a crystal clear platform of easing austerity,\u201d said ETUC\u2019s general secretary, Bernadette S\u00e9gol. Aides to the Greek prime minister Alexis Tsipras insisted that the loan request respected the popular will of the Greek people.Calling it an \u201cinterim agreement,\u201d insiders said the request was significant for raising the issue of debt restructuring and including a pledge from the new government to keep to a balanced budget.\u201cIt\u2019s not very often that you get left-leaning governments making those sort of commitments,\u201d said one Greek official. \u201cThey\u2019ve clearly sought to strike a very fine balance between tackling the humanitarian disaster and promising to be a government that will not only tackle corruption and tax evasion, the malfunctions of Greek society, but take on all the vested interests that plague political and business life.\u201dIn Berlin, the request from Greece for an extension of its loan agreement \u2013 known as the \u201cmaster financial assistance facility agreement\u201d \u2013 is seen very differently. \u201cThe Greeks have simply tried to pass the buck back to the middle,\u201d Matthias Kullas from the Centre for European Politics in Freiburg said.He stressed the German reaction was not a rejection over reaching a compromise with Greece, but did mean that expectations of an agreement on Friday when finance ministers from the eurogroup meet again, were now \u201cslim\u201d.\u201cIf an agreement is reached, it will be at the last minute,\u201d he said. \u201cIt\u2019s in the interest of both sides to stick to their guns. The earlier one of them diverts from his course, the weaker his position becomes and the more elbow room he leaves for the other.\u201dRaoul Ruparel, the head of economic research at Open Europe, said the Greek government had little chance of getting the rest of the eurozone to back its plans on labour market reforms, pensions and privatisations.In a briefing paper published before Greece\u2019s latest request was rejected by Germany, he said the eurozone could give way on another one of Greece\u2019s key demands, to allow the government to run a smaller budget surplus, so freeing up money for social spending. \u201cThe Greek election represented a tipping point, meaning that the rest of the eurozone will have to consider some tradeoffs,\u201d he wrote. A spokesperson for the European commission president, Jean-Claude Juncker, said the letter was a positive sign that could pave the way for a reasonable compromise. Hopes of ending Greece\u2019s standoff with the eurozone pushed Greece\u2019s stock market up by nearly 3% on Thursday. The mood of investors was also boosted by the decision of the European Central Bank to allow Greece a further \u20ac3.3bn in emergency liquidity, bringing the total ECB help to Greek banks to \u20ac68.3bn.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Greece", "Banking", "Economics", "Euro", "Currencies", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "European Union", "European banks", "European monetary union", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Austerity"], "title": "Germany rejects Greece request for loan extension"},{"date": "2015-02-01T15:42:36Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German transport minister will be laying down legal guidelines for the use of driverless cars on the country\u2019s autobahns.Alexander Dobrindt said driverless or robot cars would probably become a feature on German roads within a few years, but insisted that some rules needed to be in place first.He has created a committee including figures from research, industry and politics, to draw up a legal framework that would make it permissible and would like a draft of key points to be ready before the Frankfurt car fair in September.Current rules do not allow self-drive or robot cars on German roads, because a human being always has to be at the controls, according to the 1968 Vienna Convention on Road Traffic to which Germany is signed up, along with 72 other countries.Questions to be clarified include who would be responsible when the car\u2019s computer fails causing an accident, how is a robot car is to be insured and how licences should be regulated?A few days ago Dobrindt announced he was designating a stretch of Germany\u2019s busy A9 autobahn in Bavaria for testing robot car prototypes.The German car industry has been working on driverless cars for years and expects the first commercially available models to be introduced by 2020.But the industry has become nervous about competing technology from Google, leading to a campaign within industry and politics in Germany to remain independent but ahead of the field. Nevertheless, the competition appears to be keeping everyone in the industry on their toes.In 2014 German carmaker Mercedes Benz presented its Future Truck 2025, a driverless vehicle which can reach speeds of up to 80kph (50mph), while the Audi prototype, the so-called RS7 which has a horsepower of 560, reached speeds of almost 240kph (150mph) when tested on Formula One\u2019s Hockenheim track.", "tags": ["Germany", "Robots", "Technology", "Automotive industry", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany creates laws for driverless cars"},{"date": "2015-01-22T17:36:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "When the German public was first confronted with the anglicism \u201cquantitative easing\u201d around 2009, opinion makers in the media wasted no time coming up with metaphors for this abstract financial process. Soon the German press was describing governments purchasing assets via their central banks as a \u201ccash tsunami\u201d or \u201cprinting money\u201d.Genuine money-printing machines haven\u2019t been an instrument of central bank policy for decades, yet the image is part of the public discourse \u2013 and the German public will look at today\u2019s European Central Bank (ECB) announcement in that light: Mario Draghi has switched on the money printer because he\u2019s run out of other options.And in Germany this image will always awaken the ghosts of the past: speak of QE and from the crypt of history rise horrifying visions of handcarts full of devalued marks. Every debate about monetary policy is flavoured by the scars of the 1920s hyperinflation. The majority of politicians, economists and leader writers in Germany appear to agree that QE is a dangerous form of alchemy.What most people overlook is that the parallels between the 1920s and today are superficial at best. If in 1923 the Reichsbank literally handed over a large sum of cash to the government so it could appease striking workers, QE today is all about encouraging banks to lend more credit to businesses and individuals at a time where the willingness to invest is close to collapse.Of course there are risks involved in QE, as there are with every intervention in the market. The banks could get addicted to cheap money or throw themselves into risky deals, inflation could run out of control, the external value of the euro could collapse. In Germany these are the most commonly voiced concerns, along with warnings about speculative bubbles. But economics is an empirical science, and Germany, like the eurozone as a whole, has the advantage that it can assuage its fears with the experiences of other economic areas that have tried QE recently.Half a decade of asset purchases in America and the UK may be too short a period for a conclusive assessment, but we can surely afford to proclaim an interim result: the worst-case scenario never happened. The American Federal Reserve has purchased assets worth \u20ac3,900bn, the Bank of England around \u20ac500bn. Statistics show a price increase of less than 1%. The currency didn\u2019t go through the roof in either country. The spectre of inflation is nowhere in sight.Let\u2019s remember that some serious economists had prophesied a price increase of 4%-6%, and other less serious commentators had even warned of inflation in double figures.Fears about a sudden drop in the exchange rate never became a reality either. In spite of QE, the dollar and the pound are currencies that have in recent years strengthened against the euro. What about speculation bubbles? We have undoubtedly seen a tendency towards overvaluation on the stock market and in property. But a few isolated instances apart, these haven\u2019t reached the excesses we have seen in the past.On the plus side we also see that employment has grown more in QE-practising countries than in the eurozone. Unemployment figures in southern Europe \u2013 26% in Greece and 24% in Spain \u2013 are some of the highest in the world. For now the eurozone is still the most important market for German goods, but in the long run its export-focused economy cannot flourish when its European partners are suffering.From a German perspective, there are therefore many reasons to approve of the ECB\u2019s asset-buying programme. From a legal perspective, the central bank can refer to its mandate of aiming for a price stability of roughly 2% and avoiding a deflation spiral that would lead to decades without growth or investment.The problem is that even if QE were a big success, it will hardly be met with euphoria in Germany. Alienated by the commentators\u2019 rhetoric, many German citizens now blame the ECB for microscopic interest rates on their savings. Because many Germans rely on their savings to look after them in old age, they now see their pension plans under threat. Shares and bonds only play a bit role in this debate. It is above all the middle classes, who mostly haven\u2019t invested their assets in property, who see their prosperity under threat.And QE has another uncomfortable consequence in Germany: unlike the US or the UK, the eurozone isn\u2019t a nation state. If the whole experiment fails, who is going to shoulder the blame? Who will have to cough up if, for example, the Italian central bank were to make a loss on its investment? Will those losses stay in Italy or will the debts somehow be shared across Europe?And in that respect the ECB\u2019s \u201cbazooka\u201d brings back the kind of uncomfortable questions governments prefer not to answer: what kind of union is the eurozone? Is it a union of sovereign national states with access to a single market, or a supernational community of values with limited sovereignty? Monetary policy alone cannot answer these questions. The ECB can only help to make sure that these fundamental issues are worked out from a platform of growing prosperity rather than in a time of crisis and decline.", "tags": ["Germany", "Quantitative easing", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Euro", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Europe", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Germany shouldn\u2019t be afraid of QE | Daniel Eckert"},{"date": "2015-03-22T17:27:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The radical Greek prime minister, Alexis Tsipras, will meet the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, on Monday amid strained relationships between the two countries over Germany\u2019s hardline stance on Greece\u2019s debt crisis.A senior figure in Merkel\u2019s junior coalition partner called on Tsipras to present a firm list of reforms at his meeting with Merkel, on his first official visit to Germany since his election.\u201cI want to see if Greece is finally prepared to make real reforms or not,\u201d said Thomas Oppermann, parliamentary leader of the Social Democrats.\u201cTsipras announced he would present a complete list of precise reforms,\u201d Oppermann said in an interview in Der Spiegel. \u201cI expect him to present this list during his conversation with chancellor Merkel on Monday.\u201d Tsipras has blamed Merkel\u2019s insistence on tough austerity for his country\u2019s \u201chumanitarian crisis\u201d of poverty and mass unemployment.Merkel, for her part, maintains that if cash-strapped Greece wants more international bailout loans, of which Germany stumps up the biggest share, it must accept the bitter medicine of cuts and reforms.Speaking to the Greek newspaper Kathimerini before the visit, Tsipras said the meeting with Merkel would be an opportunity to talk \u201cwithout the pressure of any negotiation\u201d, adding: \u201cIt\u2019s important because we will be able to talk about topics which are damaging Europe, and about how to improve relations between our two countries.\u201dThe row between the two countries has dominated the German media over the past week, exacerbated by the broadcast last Sunday of a two-year-old video showing the Greek finance minister, Yanis Varoufakis, apparently raising his middle finger to Germany.\u201cTsipras has to recognise that the zig-zag manoeuvring of finance minister Varoufakis has damaged his government in Europe,\u201d Oppermann added.Asked what he expected from Merkel during the meeting, he said, \u201cIt\u2019s Tsipras\u2019 move now, not Merkel\u2019s.\u201dDer Spiegel\u2019s latest cover reflects the mood of confrontation. Beneath the headline, How Europeans see Germans - the German supremacy, the magazine printed an image of senior Nazi officers next to the Parthenon in occupied Athens during the second world war with Merkel standing among them smiling.Germany\u2019s opposition leaders have taken a more conciliatory stance, with the Green party chairwoman, Simone Peters, calling on both Merkel and Tsipras to \u201cget over the primitive rhetoric of the past weeks and give German-Greek relations a new chance\u201d.\u201cA social reform course from the Greeks must find the support of the government as much as reviving sustainable investments and the relief of Greece\u2019s oppressive debt burden,\u201d she told German news agency DPA.AFP contributed to this report", "tags": ["Greece", "Angela Merkel", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Alexis Tsipras", "Syriza", "Eurozone"], "title": "Tsipras to meet Merkel amid tensions between Greece and Germany"},{"date": "2015-03-13T19:25:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The spokesman of the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has denied a \u201cprivate feud\u201d has broken out between Berlin and Athens, as the radical Syriza government battles to avoid leaving the single currency \u2013 a risk euro-watchers have dubbed \u201cGrexident\u201d.As Athens rushes to implement economic reforms and convince its creditors to extend emergency funding, Steffen Seibert, Merkel\u2019s official spokesman, insisted Greece\u2019s economic future should not be reduced to a face off between the two nations.\u201cI neither see a private feud nor do I view the whole issue of Greece and how it solves its problems as a bilateral German-Greek topic\u201d, he said, reiterating that Merkel wants Greece to stay inside the single currency.Tensions between Greece and Germany have been running high, after Syriza rekindled a row over war reparations to the Greek people earlier this week.On Friday, the EU economics commissioner, Pierre Moscovici, said in a German magazine interview that a Greek exit from the euro would be a \u201ccatastrophe\u201d, despite some analysts having sought to play down the consequences.\u201cAll of us in Europe probably agree that a Grexit would be a catastrophe \u2013 for the Greek economy, but also for the eurozone as a whole,\u201d he told Der Spiegel. \u201cIf one country leaves this union, the markets will immediately ask which country is next. And that could be the beginning of the end.\u201dGreece has been granted a four-month window to implement economic reforms after striking a last-minute deal with its creditors to extend its \u20ac240bn bailout.Yanis Varoufakis, Syriza\u2019s controversial finance minister, insisted his party would be able to satisfy the 20 February agreement \u2013 even if that means delaying some of its election promises. \u201cWe have a commitment, all of us, to reach an agreement by 20 April,\u201d he told reporters on the sidelines of a conference in Italy. \u201cIf this means that, for the next few months that we have negotiations, we suspend or we delay the implementation of our [election] promises, we should do precisely that in the context to build trust with our partners,\u201d he said. However, he is likely to face pressure from within his own party to live up to the anti-austerity rhetoric of the election campaign.Analysts at Fathom, a City consultancy company, said: \u201cThe chances that the beleaguered Greek government \u2013 which by promising to both keep the country in the euro area and abolish austerity has painted itself into a corner \u2013 will turn to the bolt-hole of a referendum are increasing. As such \u2013 and whatever the outcome of the negotiations \u2013 we expect volatility to increase across the board.\u201dSeibert\u2019s intervention came after German finance minister, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, pointedly refused to rule out the risk that Syriza\u2019s actions could lead to Greece leaving the european single currency, even if that is not the party\u2019s deliberate aim.\u201cAs the responsibility, the possibility to decide what happens, lies only in [the hands of] Greece, and as we do not know what those responsible in Greece are doing, we cannot rule it out,\u201d he told Austrian television, when asked about the possibility of a \u201cGrexident\u201d.Sch\u00e4uble also reiterated that Greece would only get access to new funds if it fulfils its promises.Syriza\u2019s leader, Alexis Tsipras, who was in Brussels for talks with Jean-Claude Juncker, the European commission\u2019s president, yesterday said his countrymen needed to hear an optimistic message from the rest of Europe, as well as a hardline insistence on financial reform.\u201cNow is the time to give a message of hope to the Greek people, not only implement, implement, implement and obligations, obligations, obligations.\u201d", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone", "Euro", "Business", "Economics", "Currencies"], "title": "Angela Merkel's office denies \u2018private feud\u2019 between Greece and Germany"},{"date": "2015-02-14T13:24:53Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has proposed a draft law that would allow commercial shale gas fracking at depths of over 3,000 metres, overturning a de facto moratorium that has been in place since the start of the decade.A new six-person expert panel would also be empowered to allow fracks at shallower levelsShale gas industry groups welcomed the proposal for its potential to crack open the German shale gas market, but it has sparked outrage among environmentalists who view it as the thin edge of a fossil fuel wedge.Senior German officials say that the proposal, first mooted in July, is an environmental protection measure, wholly unrelated to energy security concerns which have been intensified by the conflict in Ukraine.\u201cIt is important to have a legal framework for hydraulic fracturing as until now there has been no legislation on the subject,\u201d Maria Krautzberger, president of Germany\u2019s federal environment agency (UBA), told the Guardian. \u201cWe have had a voluntary agreement with the big companies that there would be no fracking but if a company like Exxon wanted, they might do it anyway as there is no way to forbid it,\u201d she said. \u201cThis is a progressive step forward.\u201dThe draft law would only affect hydraulic fracturing for shale oil and tight gas in water protection and spring healing zones. The tight gas industry made up around 3% of German gas production before the moratorium, and, under the new proposals, could resume fracking in the Lower Saxony region where it is concentrated.Commercial fracking for shale gas and coal bed methane would be banned at levels below 3,000 metres, but allowed for exploration purposes at shallower levels, subject to the assessment of the expert panel.Environmentalists, however, were alarmed that half of the experts belong to institutions that signed the Hanover Declaration, calling for increased exploration of shale gas in Germany as a way of increasing energy security.\u201cIt is clear what these people are going to say,\u201d Jos\u00e9 Bov\u00e9, the French Green MEP, told the Guardian. \u201cThe panel is not going to be independent, but exactly what the companies are looking for. You don\u2019t need a panel to tell you that shale gas is dangerous. We can see the problems with water pollution, earthquakes and methane emissions. We need people to protest about it before the exploration begins.\u201dGermany is estimated to have 2.3tn cubic metres of shale gas reserves and industry groups say that its exploitation can help ease the country\u2019s energiewende transition away from coal, oil and nuclear energy, and assuage fears about the disruption of Russian gas supplies.\u201cThe reality is that Germany needs to ensure security of supply,\u201d said Marcus Pepperell, a spokesman for Shale Gas Europe. \u201cThat is what is driving the debate, and this is a pragmatic approach that allows Germany to respond to its energy requirements by exploring shale gas reserves with fracking.\u201dThe proposed law is just beginning its legislative passage and could still change in intergovernmental and parliamentary discussions, before a plenary vote in the Bundestag in May. If passed into law, the expert panel should be set up in 2018, and the following year could see the first fracking in Germany since 2011.Officials insisted that this would be on a small scale that would not challenge the central rationale of the energiewende \u2013 to increase renewable energy supplies.\u201cWe are on the side of the environmentalists,\u201d Krautzberger said. \u201cTheir goals are our goals but we say we should not close the door on a technology that might be fruitful in the future for exploring geothermal and other energies that do not harm the environment.\u201dUBA believes that currently expensive technologies to frack using warm air and warm water could one day unlock new energy extraction possibilities.\u201cWe are in a typical \u2018sandwich position\u2019 [between industry and environmental lobbies] but we think it\u2019s very unlikely that shale gas fracking will be developed in Germany and we say that there is no need for it as our future is in renewables,\u201d Krautzberger said. ", "tags": ["Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Gas", "Environment", "Germany", "Europe"], "title": "Germany moves to legalise fracking"},{"date": "2015-02-19T18:43:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany and Greece are on a collision course ahead of crucial bailout talks on Friday after Berlin knocked back a Greek compromise proposal and insisted the country stick to its existing austerity plan.Setting the scene for a make-or-break meeting in Brussels , the eurozone\u2019s largest economy dismissed as \u201cnot substantive\u201d a proposal from Greek finance minister Yanis Varoufakis,which appeared to have all but capitulated to creditors\u2019 demands. Related: Varoufakis and the Greek-German standoff | Letters The rebuff from Berlin came just hours after Greece filed a formal request to its eurozone partners to extend its loan agreement, in the hope of averting a cash crisis.A Greek government spokesman insisted that the eurogroup had only two options: either to accept or reject the Greek request. \u201cIt will then be clear who wants to find a solution and who doesn\u2019t.\u201dThe European commission welcomed the Greek proposal \u2013 widely seen as a climbdown on some of Greece\u2019s key demands \u2013 as a positive sign that could pave the way for compromise.But in a sign of divisions within the EU, Germany said the Greek plan failed to meet eurozone ministers\u2019 demands that Greece stick to its bailout programme \u2013 a set of conditions laid out on Monday at an acrimonious meeting in Brussels that failed to end the deadlock.Greece needs unanimous backing from the other 18 eurozone finance ministers to secure a deal.\u201cThe letter from Athens is not a proposal that leads to a substantial solution,\u201d finance ministry spokesman Martin Jaeger said.\u201cIn truth it goes in the direction of a bridge financing, without fulfilling the demands of the programme. The letter does not meet the criteria agreed by the Eurogroup on Monday.\u201dGermany\u2019s rejection heightened the uncertainty around Friday\u2019s meeting, which will be the eurozone\u2019s third attempt in 10 days to resolve a standoff that has sent jitters across the continent at the prospect of a messy Greek exit from the single currency.One source said: \u201cI am sort of asking, what the fuck, are they [ministers] really going to come again and have no agreement.\u201d The source said everyone hoped for an agreement, but added: \u201cThere has not been much support [for the plan], it seems Greece will find it difficult.\u201d Others expect a compromise will be found at the last minute. \u201cProbably the Greeks will move but there is going to be more negotiation needed to find an agreement,\u201d said another source.The Greek government, which is under fire from radical ultra-leftists for making the loan application, described the latest proposal as a way to deal with the country\u2019s \u201chumanitarian crisis\u201d and kickstart the economy. But the request was widely viewed as a climbdown by the Greek government.In an effort to break the impasse in advance of Friday\u2019s meeting of euro group finance ministers \u2013 their third this week \u2013 the Greek prime minister AlexisTsipras and German chancellor Angela Merkel discussed the crisis for almost an hour late Thursday evening.Officials in Athens described the talks - interpreted by official translators and not conducted in English - as \u201cconstructive,\u201d saying both had conveyed the desire to find a solution.Merkel, they added, had assumed a more conciliatory stance than her finance minister Wolfgang Schauble. The German chancellorhas repeatedly said she wants Greece to remain in the single currency.Earlier, Tsipras spoke with the French and Italian leaders. The French president Fran\u00e7ois Hollande was also quoted in the Greek media as saying he was willing to support Athens. In a letter to Jeroen Dijsselbloem, president of the eurozone finance ministers\u2019 group, obtained by Reuters, Greece\u2019s finance minister, Yanis Varoufakis, conceded that the Greek authorities would \u201crefrain from unilateral action that would undermine the fiscal targets, economic recovery and financial stability\u201d.Crucially, he said Greece would remain under the supervision of the European commission, the European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund \u2013 the unpopular troika that the Syriza-led government had insisted it would throw off. Related: Greece seeks six-month bailout extension - live updates Analysts at Deutsche Bank said the Greek plan represented \u201creasonable progress\u201d in meeting the demands of the Eurogroup; while the head of the European Trade Union Confederation accused Germany of \u201cplaying with fire\u201d by rejecting the Greek compromise. \u201cGermany is demanding unconditional surrender from a proud people that has elected a new Government on a crystal clear platform of easing austerity,\u201d said ETUC\u2019s general secretary, Bernadette S\u00e9gol. Aides to the Greek prime minister Alexis Tsipras insisted that the loan request respected the popular will of the Greek people.Calling it an \u201cinterim agreement,\u201d insiders said the request was significant for raising the issue of debt restructuring and including a pledge from the new government to keep to a balanced budget.\u201cIt\u2019s not very often that you get left-leaning governments making those sort of commitments,\u201d said one Greek official. \u201cThey\u2019ve clearly sought to strike a very fine balance between tackling the humanitarian disaster and promising to be a government that will not only tackle corruption and tax evasion, the malfunctions of Greek society, but take on all the vested interests that plague political and business life.\u201dIn Berlin, the request from Greece for an extension of its loan agreement \u2013 known as the \u201cmaster financial assistance facility agreement\u201d \u2013 is seen very differently. \u201cThe Greeks have simply tried to pass the buck back to the middle,\u201d Matthias Kullas from the Centre for European Politics in Freiburg said.He stressed the German reaction was not a rejection over reaching a compromise with Greece, but did mean that expectations of an agreement on Friday when finance ministers from the eurogroup meet again, were now \u201cslim\u201d.\u201cIf an agreement is reached, it will be at the last minute,\u201d he said. \u201cIt\u2019s in the interest of both sides to stick to their guns. The earlier one of them diverts from his course, the weaker his position becomes and the more elbow room he leaves for the other.\u201dRaoul Ruparel, the head of economic research at Open Europe, said the Greek government had little chance of getting the rest of the eurozone to back its plans on labour market reforms, pensions and privatisations.In a briefing paper published before Greece\u2019s latest request was rejected by Germany, he said the eurozone could give way on another one of Greece\u2019s key demands, to allow the government to run a smaller budget surplus, so freeing up money for social spending. \u201cThe Greek election represented a tipping point, meaning that the rest of the eurozone will have to consider some tradeoffs,\u201d he wrote. A spokesperson for the European commission president, Jean-Claude Juncker, said the letter was a positive sign that could pave the way for a reasonable compromise. Hopes of ending Greece\u2019s standoff with the eurozone pushed Greece\u2019s stock market up by nearly 3% on Thursday. The mood of investors was also boosted by the decision of the European Central Bank to allow Greece a further \u20ac3.3bn in emergency liquidity, bringing the total ECB help to Greek banks to \u20ac68.3bn.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Greece", "Banking", "Economics", "Euro", "Currencies", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "European Union", "European banks", "European monetary union", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Austerity"], "title": "Germany rejects Greece request for loan extension"},{"date": "2015-02-01T15:42:36Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German transport minister will be laying down legal guidelines for the use of driverless cars on the country\u2019s autobahns.Alexander Dobrindt said driverless or robot cars would probably become a feature on German roads within a few years, but insisted that some rules needed to be in place first.He has created a committee including figures from research, industry and politics, to draw up a legal framework that would make it permissible and would like a draft of key points to be ready before the Frankfurt car fair in September.Current rules do not allow self-drive or robot cars on German roads, because a human being always has to be at the controls, according to the 1968 Vienna Convention on Road Traffic to which Germany is signed up, along with 72 other countries.Questions to be clarified include who would be responsible when the car\u2019s computer fails causing an accident, how is a robot car is to be insured and how licences should be regulated?A few days ago Dobrindt announced he was designating a stretch of Germany\u2019s busy A9 autobahn in Bavaria for testing robot car prototypes.The German car industry has been working on driverless cars for years and expects the first commercially available models to be introduced by 2020.But the industry has become nervous about competing technology from Google, leading to a campaign within industry and politics in Germany to remain independent but ahead of the field. Nevertheless, the competition appears to be keeping everyone in the industry on their toes.In 2014 German carmaker Mercedes Benz presented its Future Truck 2025, a driverless vehicle which can reach speeds of up to 80kph (50mph), while the Audi prototype, the so-called RS7 which has a horsepower of 560, reached speeds of almost 240kph (150mph) when tested on Formula One\u2019s Hockenheim track.", "tags": ["Germany", "Robots", "Technology", "Automotive industry", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany creates laws for driverless cars"},{"date": "2015-01-22T17:36:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "When the German public was first confronted with the anglicism \u201cquantitative easing\u201d around 2009, opinion makers in the media wasted no time coming up with metaphors for this abstract financial process. Soon the German press was describing governments purchasing assets via their central banks as a \u201ccash tsunami\u201d or \u201cprinting money\u201d.Genuine money-printing machines haven\u2019t been an instrument of central bank policy for decades, yet the image is part of the public discourse \u2013 and the German public will look at today\u2019s European Central Bank (ECB) announcement in that light: Mario Draghi has switched on the money printer because he\u2019s run out of other options.And in Germany this image will always awaken the ghosts of the past: speak of QE and from the crypt of history rise horrifying visions of handcarts full of devalued marks. Every debate about monetary policy is flavoured by the scars of the 1920s hyperinflation. The majority of politicians, economists and leader writers in Germany appear to agree that QE is a dangerous form of alchemy.What most people overlook is that the parallels between the 1920s and today are superficial at best. If in 1923 the Reichsbank literally handed over a large sum of cash to the government so it could appease striking workers, QE today is all about encouraging banks to lend more credit to businesses and individuals at a time where the willingness to invest is close to collapse.Of course there are risks involved in QE, as there are with every intervention in the market. The banks could get addicted to cheap money or throw themselves into risky deals, inflation could run out of control, the external value of the euro could collapse. In Germany these are the most commonly voiced concerns, along with warnings about speculative bubbles. But economics is an empirical science, and Germany, like the eurozone as a whole, has the advantage that it can assuage its fears with the experiences of other economic areas that have tried QE recently.Half a decade of asset purchases in America and the UK may be too short a period for a conclusive assessment, but we can surely afford to proclaim an interim result: the worst-case scenario never happened. The American Federal Reserve has purchased assets worth \u20ac3,900bn, the Bank of England around \u20ac500bn. Statistics show a price increase of less than 1%. The currency didn\u2019t go through the roof in either country. The spectre of inflation is nowhere in sight.Let\u2019s remember that some serious economists had prophesied a price increase of 4%-6%, and other less serious commentators had even warned of inflation in double figures.Fears about a sudden drop in the exchange rate never became a reality either. In spite of QE, the dollar and the pound are currencies that have in recent years strengthened against the euro. What about speculation bubbles? We have undoubtedly seen a tendency towards overvaluation on the stock market and in property. But a few isolated instances apart, these haven\u2019t reached the excesses we have seen in the past.On the plus side we also see that employment has grown more in QE-practising countries than in the eurozone. Unemployment figures in southern Europe \u2013 26% in Greece and 24% in Spain \u2013 are some of the highest in the world. For now the eurozone is still the most important market for German goods, but in the long run its export-focused economy cannot flourish when its European partners are suffering.From a German perspective, there are therefore many reasons to approve of the ECB\u2019s asset-buying programme. From a legal perspective, the central bank can refer to its mandate of aiming for a price stability of roughly 2% and avoiding a deflation spiral that would lead to decades without growth or investment.The problem is that even if QE were a big success, it will hardly be met with euphoria in Germany. Alienated by the commentators\u2019 rhetoric, many German citizens now blame the ECB for microscopic interest rates on their savings. Because many Germans rely on their savings to look after them in old age, they now see their pension plans under threat. Shares and bonds only play a bit role in this debate. It is above all the middle classes, who mostly haven\u2019t invested their assets in property, who see their prosperity under threat.And QE has another uncomfortable consequence in Germany: unlike the US or the UK, the eurozone isn\u2019t a nation state. If the whole experiment fails, who is going to shoulder the blame? Who will have to cough up if, for example, the Italian central bank were to make a loss on its investment? Will those losses stay in Italy or will the debts somehow be shared across Europe?And in that respect the ECB\u2019s \u201cbazooka\u201d brings back the kind of uncomfortable questions governments prefer not to answer: what kind of union is the eurozone? Is it a union of sovereign national states with access to a single market, or a supernational community of values with limited sovereignty? Monetary policy alone cannot answer these questions. The ECB can only help to make sure that these fundamental issues are worked out from a platform of growing prosperity rather than in a time of crisis and decline.", "tags": ["Germany", "Quantitative easing", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Euro", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Europe", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Germany shouldn\u2019t be afraid of QE | Daniel Eckert"},{"date": "2015-03-22T17:27:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The radical Greek prime minister, Alexis Tsipras, will meet the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, on Monday amid strained relationships between the two countries over Germany\u2019s hardline stance on Greece\u2019s debt crisis.A senior figure in Merkel\u2019s junior coalition partner called on Tsipras to present a firm list of reforms at his meeting with Merkel, on his first official visit to Germany since his election.\u201cI want to see if Greece is finally prepared to make real reforms or not,\u201d said Thomas Oppermann, parliamentary leader of the Social Democrats.\u201cTsipras announced he would present a complete list of precise reforms,\u201d Oppermann said in an interview in Der Spiegel. \u201cI expect him to present this list during his conversation with chancellor Merkel on Monday.\u201d Tsipras has blamed Merkel\u2019s insistence on tough austerity for his country\u2019s \u201chumanitarian crisis\u201d of poverty and mass unemployment.Merkel, for her part, maintains that if cash-strapped Greece wants more international bailout loans, of which Germany stumps up the biggest share, it must accept the bitter medicine of cuts and reforms.Speaking to the Greek newspaper Kathimerini before the visit, Tsipras said the meeting with Merkel would be an opportunity to talk \u201cwithout the pressure of any negotiation\u201d, adding: \u201cIt\u2019s important because we will be able to talk about topics which are damaging Europe, and about how to improve relations between our two countries.\u201dThe row between the two countries has dominated the German media over the past week, exacerbated by the broadcast last Sunday of a two-year-old video showing the Greek finance minister, Yanis Varoufakis, apparently raising his middle finger to Germany.\u201cTsipras has to recognise that the zig-zag manoeuvring of finance minister Varoufakis has damaged his government in Europe,\u201d Oppermann added.Asked what he expected from Merkel during the meeting, he said, \u201cIt\u2019s Tsipras\u2019 move now, not Merkel\u2019s.\u201dDer Spiegel\u2019s latest cover reflects the mood of confrontation. Beneath the headline, How Europeans see Germans - the German supremacy, the magazine printed an image of senior Nazi officers next to the Parthenon in occupied Athens during the second world war with Merkel standing among them smiling.Germany\u2019s opposition leaders have taken a more conciliatory stance, with the Green party chairwoman, Simone Peters, calling on both Merkel and Tsipras to \u201cget over the primitive rhetoric of the past weeks and give German-Greek relations a new chance\u201d.\u201cA social reform course from the Greeks must find the support of the government as much as reviving sustainable investments and the relief of Greece\u2019s oppressive debt burden,\u201d she told German news agency DPA.AFP contributed to this report", "tags": ["Greece", "Angela Merkel", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Alexis Tsipras", "Syriza", "Eurozone"], "title": "Tsipras to meet Merkel amid tensions between Greece and Germany"},{"date": "2015-03-13T19:25:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The spokesman of the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has denied a \u201cprivate feud\u201d has broken out between Berlin and Athens, as the radical Syriza government battles to avoid leaving the single currency \u2013 a risk euro-watchers have dubbed \u201cGrexident\u201d.As Athens rushes to implement economic reforms and convince its creditors to extend emergency funding, Steffen Seibert, Merkel\u2019s official spokesman, insisted Greece\u2019s economic future should not be reduced to a face off between the two nations.\u201cI neither see a private feud nor do I view the whole issue of Greece and how it solves its problems as a bilateral German-Greek topic\u201d, he said, reiterating that Merkel wants Greece to stay inside the single currency.Tensions between Greece and Germany have been running high, after Syriza rekindled a row over war reparations to the Greek people earlier this week.On Friday, the EU economics commissioner, Pierre Moscovici, said in a German magazine interview that a Greek exit from the euro would be a \u201ccatastrophe\u201d, despite some analysts having sought to play down the consequences.\u201cAll of us in Europe probably agree that a Grexit would be a catastrophe \u2013 for the Greek economy, but also for the eurozone as a whole,\u201d he told Der Spiegel. \u201cIf one country leaves this union, the markets will immediately ask which country is next. And that could be the beginning of the end.\u201dGreece has been granted a four-month window to implement economic reforms after striking a last-minute deal with its creditors to extend its \u20ac240bn bailout.Yanis Varoufakis, Syriza\u2019s controversial finance minister, insisted his party would be able to satisfy the 20 February agreement \u2013 even if that means delaying some of its election promises. \u201cWe have a commitment, all of us, to reach an agreement by 20 April,\u201d he told reporters on the sidelines of a conference in Italy. \u201cIf this means that, for the next few months that we have negotiations, we suspend or we delay the implementation of our [election] promises, we should do precisely that in the context to build trust with our partners,\u201d he said. However, he is likely to face pressure from within his own party to live up to the anti-austerity rhetoric of the election campaign.Analysts at Fathom, a City consultancy company, said: \u201cThe chances that the beleaguered Greek government \u2013 which by promising to both keep the country in the euro area and abolish austerity has painted itself into a corner \u2013 will turn to the bolt-hole of a referendum are increasing. As such \u2013 and whatever the outcome of the negotiations \u2013 we expect volatility to increase across the board.\u201dSeibert\u2019s intervention came after German finance minister, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, pointedly refused to rule out the risk that Syriza\u2019s actions could lead to Greece leaving the european single currency, even if that is not the party\u2019s deliberate aim.\u201cAs the responsibility, the possibility to decide what happens, lies only in [the hands of] Greece, and as we do not know what those responsible in Greece are doing, we cannot rule it out,\u201d he told Austrian television, when asked about the possibility of a \u201cGrexident\u201d.Sch\u00e4uble also reiterated that Greece would only get access to new funds if it fulfils its promises.Syriza\u2019s leader, Alexis Tsipras, who was in Brussels for talks with Jean-Claude Juncker, the European commission\u2019s president, yesterday said his countrymen needed to hear an optimistic message from the rest of Europe, as well as a hardline insistence on financial reform.\u201cNow is the time to give a message of hope to the Greek people, not only implement, implement, implement and obligations, obligations, obligations.\u201d", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone", "Euro", "Business", "Economics", "Currencies"], "title": "Angela Merkel's office denies \u2018private feud\u2019 between Greece and Germany"},{"date": "2015-03-12T14:05:40Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It is the politics of the playground. The German finance minister, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, is accused of calling his Greek counterpart Yanis Varoufakis \u201cfoolishly naive\u201d in his dealings with the media. Athens lodges a formal complaint with Berlin, saying a minister of a country that is a \u201cfriend and ally\u201d cannot go around insulting a colleague.Ya boo to that, says Jens Weidmann, the president of Germany\u2019s Bundesbank. Greece is losing the trust of its partners and it is only right that the European Central Bank should think very hard about whether it wants to extend its exposure to the crisis-ridden country.See if I care, says Varoufakis. I have never had the trust of the German government. What matters is that I have the trust of the Greek people at a time when the ECB is \u201casphyxiating\u201d the country.This outbreak of undiplomatic language might sound funny, but it isn\u2019t. The schism between Germany and Greece is growing wider by the day. Unless Berlin and Athens can come to an amicable agreement, something that looks increasingly less likely, there are only two possible outcomes: Greece capitulates or Greece leaves the euro.Sch\u00e4uble clearly believes that Greece has no intention of going back to the drachma. Varoufakis has said as much, as has the new Greek prime minister, Alexis Tsipras.However, if Greece wants to remain inside the single currency, it is going to need the cooperation and financial support of the other members of the club, including Germany. Greece is going to have to do what it is told by the troika of the ECB, the EU and the International Monetary Fund at some point, so it makes no sense for Athens to start dredging up memories of German occupation in the second world war.Varoufakis is making it even more likely that the rest of the eurozone will play hardball with Greece. It is not clear if Sch\u00e4uble really said the words \u201cfoolishly naive\u201d \u2013 but that would be a fair judgment if the end result is abject capitulation to whatever the troika demands. But as the Labour peer Meghnad Desai points out in an OMFIF blog, there is a way out for the Syriza-led coalition. That is to call a referendum on the basis of who governs Greece.As Desai notes, Tsipras and Varoufakis could say they had underestimated how difficult it would be to end austerity and it was up to the Greek people whether they wanted year after year of externally-imposed pain or exit from the eurozone.A month ago, such an outcome to the Greek crisis looked highly improbable. It now appears far less unlikely, which is one reason why the euro has been under such pressure on the foreign exchanges. At some point, the 35% depreciation of the single currency against the dollar is going to lead to strong exports and a much-needed growth boost.When that happens, the euro will start to climb higher against the pound and the greenback. But not yet. Not until Greece has decided whether it is going to put up or shut up.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Germany", "European Central Bank", "Economics", "Business", "European monetary union", "Euro", "Currencies"], "title": "Schism between Germany and Greece grows wider by the day"},{"date": "2015-02-14T13:24:53Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany has proposed a draft law that would allow commercial shale gas fracking at depths of over 3,000 metres, overturning a de facto moratorium that has been in place since the start of the decade.A new six-person expert panel would also be empowered to allow fracks at shallower levelsShale gas industry groups welcomed the proposal for its potential to crack open the German shale gas market, but it has sparked outrage among environmentalists who view it as the thin edge of a fossil fuel wedge.Senior German officials say that the proposal, first mooted in July, is an environmental protection measure, wholly unrelated to energy security concerns which have been intensified by the conflict in Ukraine.\u201cIt is important to have a legal framework for hydraulic fracturing as until now there has been no legislation on the subject,\u201d Maria Krautzberger, president of Germany\u2019s federal environment agency (UBA), told the Guardian. \u201cWe have had a voluntary agreement with the big companies that there would be no fracking but if a company like Exxon wanted, they might do it anyway as there is no way to forbid it,\u201d she said. \u201cThis is a progressive step forward.\u201dThe draft law would only affect hydraulic fracturing for shale oil and tight gas in water protection and spring healing zones. The tight gas industry made up around 3% of German gas production before the moratorium, and, under the new proposals, could resume fracking in the Lower Saxony region where it is concentrated.Commercial fracking for shale gas and coal bed methane would be banned at levels below 3,000 metres, but allowed for exploration purposes at shallower levels, subject to the assessment of the expert panel.Environmentalists, however, were alarmed that half of the experts belong to institutions that signed the Hanover Declaration, calling for increased exploration of shale gas in Germany as a way of increasing energy security.\u201cIt is clear what these people are going to say,\u201d Jos\u00e9 Bov\u00e9, the French Green MEP, told the Guardian. \u201cThe panel is not going to be independent, but exactly what the companies are looking for. You don\u2019t need a panel to tell you that shale gas is dangerous. We can see the problems with water pollution, earthquakes and methane emissions. We need people to protest about it before the exploration begins.\u201dGermany is estimated to have 2.3tn cubic metres of shale gas reserves and industry groups say that its exploitation can help ease the country\u2019s energiewende transition away from coal, oil and nuclear energy, and assuage fears about the disruption of Russian gas supplies.\u201cThe reality is that Germany needs to ensure security of supply,\u201d said Marcus Pepperell, a spokesman for Shale Gas Europe. \u201cThat is what is driving the debate, and this is a pragmatic approach that allows Germany to respond to its energy requirements by exploring shale gas reserves with fracking.\u201dThe proposed law is just beginning its legislative passage and could still change in intergovernmental and parliamentary discussions, before a plenary vote in the Bundestag in May. If passed into law, the expert panel should be set up in 2018, and the following year could see the first fracking in Germany since 2011.Officials insisted that this would be on a small scale that would not challenge the central rationale of the energiewende \u2013 to increase renewable energy supplies.\u201cWe are on the side of the environmentalists,\u201d Krautzberger said. \u201cTheir goals are our goals but we say we should not close the door on a technology that might be fruitful in the future for exploring geothermal and other energies that do not harm the environment.\u201dUBA believes that currently expensive technologies to frack using warm air and warm water could one day unlock new energy extraction possibilities.\u201cWe are in a typical \u2018sandwich position\u2019 [between industry and environmental lobbies] but we think it\u2019s very unlikely that shale gas fracking will be developed in Germany and we say that there is no need for it as our future is in renewables,\u201d Krautzberger said. ", "tags": ["Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Gas", "Environment", "Germany", "Europe"], "title": "Germany moves to legalise fracking"},{"date": "2015-02-19T18:43:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany and Greece are on a collision course ahead of crucial bailout talks on Friday after Berlin knocked back a Greek compromise proposal and insisted the country stick to its existing austerity plan.Setting the scene for a make-or-break meeting in Brussels , the eurozone\u2019s largest economy dismissed as \u201cnot substantive\u201d a proposal from Greek finance minister Yanis Varoufakis,which appeared to have all but capitulated to creditors\u2019 demands. Related: Varoufakis and the Greek-German standoff | Letters The rebuff from Berlin came just hours after Greece filed a formal request to its eurozone partners to extend its loan agreement, in the hope of averting a cash crisis.A Greek government spokesman insisted that the eurogroup had only two options: either to accept or reject the Greek request. \u201cIt will then be clear who wants to find a solution and who doesn\u2019t.\u201dThe European commission welcomed the Greek proposal \u2013 widely seen as a climbdown on some of Greece\u2019s key demands \u2013 as a positive sign that could pave the way for compromise.But in a sign of divisions within the EU, Germany said the Greek plan failed to meet eurozone ministers\u2019 demands that Greece stick to its bailout programme \u2013 a set of conditions laid out on Monday at an acrimonious meeting in Brussels that failed to end the deadlock.Greece needs unanimous backing from the other 18 eurozone finance ministers to secure a deal.\u201cThe letter from Athens is not a proposal that leads to a substantial solution,\u201d finance ministry spokesman Martin Jaeger said.\u201cIn truth it goes in the direction of a bridge financing, without fulfilling the demands of the programme. The letter does not meet the criteria agreed by the Eurogroup on Monday.\u201dGermany\u2019s rejection heightened the uncertainty around Friday\u2019s meeting, which will be the eurozone\u2019s third attempt in 10 days to resolve a standoff that has sent jitters across the continent at the prospect of a messy Greek exit from the single currency.One source said: \u201cI am sort of asking, what the fuck, are they [ministers] really going to come again and have no agreement.\u201d The source said everyone hoped for an agreement, but added: \u201cThere has not been much support [for the plan], it seems Greece will find it difficult.\u201d Others expect a compromise will be found at the last minute. \u201cProbably the Greeks will move but there is going to be more negotiation needed to find an agreement,\u201d said another source.The Greek government, which is under fire from radical ultra-leftists for making the loan application, described the latest proposal as a way to deal with the country\u2019s \u201chumanitarian crisis\u201d and kickstart the economy. But the request was widely viewed as a climbdown by the Greek government.In an effort to break the impasse in advance of Friday\u2019s meeting of euro group finance ministers \u2013 their third this week \u2013 the Greek prime minister AlexisTsipras and German chancellor Angela Merkel discussed the crisis for almost an hour late Thursday evening.Officials in Athens described the talks - interpreted by official translators and not conducted in English - as \u201cconstructive,\u201d saying both had conveyed the desire to find a solution.Merkel, they added, had assumed a more conciliatory stance than her finance minister Wolfgang Schauble. The German chancellorhas repeatedly said she wants Greece to remain in the single currency.Earlier, Tsipras spoke with the French and Italian leaders. The French president Fran\u00e7ois Hollande was also quoted in the Greek media as saying he was willing to support Athens. In a letter to Jeroen Dijsselbloem, president of the eurozone finance ministers\u2019 group, obtained by Reuters, Greece\u2019s finance minister, Yanis Varoufakis, conceded that the Greek authorities would \u201crefrain from unilateral action that would undermine the fiscal targets, economic recovery and financial stability\u201d.Crucially, he said Greece would remain under the supervision of the European commission, the European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund \u2013 the unpopular troika that the Syriza-led government had insisted it would throw off. Related: Greece seeks six-month bailout extension - live updates Analysts at Deutsche Bank said the Greek plan represented \u201creasonable progress\u201d in meeting the demands of the Eurogroup; while the head of the European Trade Union Confederation accused Germany of \u201cplaying with fire\u201d by rejecting the Greek compromise. \u201cGermany is demanding unconditional surrender from a proud people that has elected a new Government on a crystal clear platform of easing austerity,\u201d said ETUC\u2019s general secretary, Bernadette S\u00e9gol. Aides to the Greek prime minister Alexis Tsipras insisted that the loan request respected the popular will of the Greek people.Calling it an \u201cinterim agreement,\u201d insiders said the request was significant for raising the issue of debt restructuring and including a pledge from the new government to keep to a balanced budget.\u201cIt\u2019s not very often that you get left-leaning governments making those sort of commitments,\u201d said one Greek official. \u201cThey\u2019ve clearly sought to strike a very fine balance between tackling the humanitarian disaster and promising to be a government that will not only tackle corruption and tax evasion, the malfunctions of Greek society, but take on all the vested interests that plague political and business life.\u201dIn Berlin, the request from Greece for an extension of its loan agreement \u2013 known as the \u201cmaster financial assistance facility agreement\u201d \u2013 is seen very differently. \u201cThe Greeks have simply tried to pass the buck back to the middle,\u201d Matthias Kullas from the Centre for European Politics in Freiburg said.He stressed the German reaction was not a rejection over reaching a compromise with Greece, but did mean that expectations of an agreement on Friday when finance ministers from the eurogroup meet again, were now \u201cslim\u201d.\u201cIf an agreement is reached, it will be at the last minute,\u201d he said. \u201cIt\u2019s in the interest of both sides to stick to their guns. The earlier one of them diverts from his course, the weaker his position becomes and the more elbow room he leaves for the other.\u201dRaoul Ruparel, the head of economic research at Open Europe, said the Greek government had little chance of getting the rest of the eurozone to back its plans on labour market reforms, pensions and privatisations.In a briefing paper published before Greece\u2019s latest request was rejected by Germany, he said the eurozone could give way on another one of Greece\u2019s key demands, to allow the government to run a smaller budget surplus, so freeing up money for social spending. \u201cThe Greek election represented a tipping point, meaning that the rest of the eurozone will have to consider some tradeoffs,\u201d he wrote. A spokesperson for the European commission president, Jean-Claude Juncker, said the letter was a positive sign that could pave the way for a reasonable compromise. Hopes of ending Greece\u2019s standoff with the eurozone pushed Greece\u2019s stock market up by nearly 3% on Thursday. The mood of investors was also boosted by the decision of the European Central Bank to allow Greece a further \u20ac3.3bn in emergency liquidity, bringing the total ECB help to Greek banks to \u20ac68.3bn.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Greece", "Banking", "Economics", "Euro", "Currencies", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "European Union", "European banks", "European monetary union", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Austerity"], "title": "Germany rejects Greece request for loan extension"},{"date": "2015-02-01T15:42:36Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The German transport minister will be laying down legal guidelines for the use of driverless cars on the country\u2019s autobahns.Alexander Dobrindt said driverless or robot cars would probably become a feature on German roads within a few years, but insisted that some rules needed to be in place first.He has created a committee including figures from research, industry and politics, to draw up a legal framework that would make it permissible and would like a draft of key points to be ready before the Frankfurt car fair in September.Current rules do not allow self-drive or robot cars on German roads, because a human being always has to be at the controls, according to the 1968 Vienna Convention on Road Traffic to which Germany is signed up, along with 72 other countries.Questions to be clarified include who would be responsible when the car\u2019s computer fails causing an accident, how is a robot car is to be insured and how licences should be regulated?A few days ago Dobrindt announced he was designating a stretch of Germany\u2019s busy A9 autobahn in Bavaria for testing robot car prototypes.The German car industry has been working on driverless cars for years and expects the first commercially available models to be introduced by 2020.But the industry has become nervous about competing technology from Google, leading to a campaign within industry and politics in Germany to remain independent but ahead of the field. Nevertheless, the competition appears to be keeping everyone in the industry on their toes.In 2014 German carmaker Mercedes Benz presented its Future Truck 2025, a driverless vehicle which can reach speeds of up to 80kph (50mph), while the Audi prototype, the so-called RS7 which has a horsepower of 560, reached speeds of almost 240kph (150mph) when tested on Formula One\u2019s Hockenheim track.", "tags": ["Germany", "Robots", "Technology", "Automotive industry", "Business", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany creates laws for driverless cars"},{"date": "2015-01-22T17:36:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "When the German public was first confronted with the anglicism \u201cquantitative easing\u201d around 2009, opinion makers in the media wasted no time coming up with metaphors for this abstract financial process. Soon the German press was describing governments purchasing assets via their central banks as a \u201ccash tsunami\u201d or \u201cprinting money\u201d.Genuine money-printing machines haven\u2019t been an instrument of central bank policy for decades, yet the image is part of the public discourse \u2013 and the German public will look at today\u2019s European Central Bank (ECB) announcement in that light: Mario Draghi has switched on the money printer because he\u2019s run out of other options.And in Germany this image will always awaken the ghosts of the past: speak of QE and from the crypt of history rise horrifying visions of handcarts full of devalued marks. Every debate about monetary policy is flavoured by the scars of the 1920s hyperinflation. The majority of politicians, economists and leader writers in Germany appear to agree that QE is a dangerous form of alchemy.What most people overlook is that the parallels between the 1920s and today are superficial at best. If in 1923 the Reichsbank literally handed over a large sum of cash to the government so it could appease striking workers, QE today is all about encouraging banks to lend more credit to businesses and individuals at a time where the willingness to invest is close to collapse.Of course there are risks involved in QE, as there are with every intervention in the market. The banks could get addicted to cheap money or throw themselves into risky deals, inflation could run out of control, the external value of the euro could collapse. In Germany these are the most commonly voiced concerns, along with warnings about speculative bubbles. But economics is an empirical science, and Germany, like the eurozone as a whole, has the advantage that it can assuage its fears with the experiences of other economic areas that have tried QE recently.Half a decade of asset purchases in America and the UK may be too short a period for a conclusive assessment, but we can surely afford to proclaim an interim result: the worst-case scenario never happened. The American Federal Reserve has purchased assets worth \u20ac3,900bn, the Bank of England around \u20ac500bn. Statistics show a price increase of less than 1%. The currency didn\u2019t go through the roof in either country. The spectre of inflation is nowhere in sight.Let\u2019s remember that some serious economists had prophesied a price increase of 4%-6%, and other less serious commentators had even warned of inflation in double figures.Fears about a sudden drop in the exchange rate never became a reality either. In spite of QE, the dollar and the pound are currencies that have in recent years strengthened against the euro. What about speculation bubbles? We have undoubtedly seen a tendency towards overvaluation on the stock market and in property. But a few isolated instances apart, these haven\u2019t reached the excesses we have seen in the past.On the plus side we also see that employment has grown more in QE-practising countries than in the eurozone. Unemployment figures in southern Europe \u2013 26% in Greece and 24% in Spain \u2013 are some of the highest in the world. For now the eurozone is still the most important market for German goods, but in the long run its export-focused economy cannot flourish when its European partners are suffering.From a German perspective, there are therefore many reasons to approve of the ECB\u2019s asset-buying programme. From a legal perspective, the central bank can refer to its mandate of aiming for a price stability of roughly 2% and avoiding a deflation spiral that would lead to decades without growth or investment.The problem is that even if QE were a big success, it will hardly be met with euphoria in Germany. Alienated by the commentators\u2019 rhetoric, many German citizens now blame the ECB for microscopic interest rates on their savings. Because many Germans rely on their savings to look after them in old age, they now see their pension plans under threat. Shares and bonds only play a bit role in this debate. It is above all the middle classes, who mostly haven\u2019t invested their assets in property, who see their prosperity under threat.And QE has another uncomfortable consequence in Germany: unlike the US or the UK, the eurozone isn\u2019t a nation state. If the whole experiment fails, who is going to shoulder the blame? Who will have to cough up if, for example, the Italian central bank were to make a loss on its investment? Will those losses stay in Italy or will the debts somehow be shared across Europe?And in that respect the ECB\u2019s \u201cbazooka\u201d brings back the kind of uncomfortable questions governments prefer not to answer: what kind of union is the eurozone? Is it a union of sovereign national states with access to a single market, or a supernational community of values with limited sovereignty? Monetary policy alone cannot answer these questions. The ECB can only help to make sure that these fundamental issues are worked out from a platform of growing prosperity rather than in a time of crisis and decline.", "tags": ["Germany", "Quantitative easing", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Euro", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Europe", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Germany shouldn\u2019t be afraid of QE | Daniel Eckert"},{"date": "2015-03-22T17:27:16Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The radical Greek prime minister, Alexis Tsipras, will meet the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, on Monday amid strained relationships between the two countries over Germany\u2019s hardline stance on Greece\u2019s debt crisis.A senior figure in Merkel\u2019s junior coalition partner called on Tsipras to present a firm list of reforms at his meeting with Merkel, on his first official visit to Germany since his election.\u201cI want to see if Greece is finally prepared to make real reforms or not,\u201d said Thomas Oppermann, parliamentary leader of the Social Democrats.\u201cTsipras announced he would present a complete list of precise reforms,\u201d Oppermann said in an interview in Der Spiegel. \u201cI expect him to present this list during his conversation with chancellor Merkel on Monday.\u201d Tsipras has blamed Merkel\u2019s insistence on tough austerity for his country\u2019s \u201chumanitarian crisis\u201d of poverty and mass unemployment.Merkel, for her part, maintains that if cash-strapped Greece wants more international bailout loans, of which Germany stumps up the biggest share, it must accept the bitter medicine of cuts and reforms.Speaking to the Greek newspaper Kathimerini before the visit, Tsipras said the meeting with Merkel would be an opportunity to talk \u201cwithout the pressure of any negotiation\u201d, adding: \u201cIt\u2019s important because we will be able to talk about topics which are damaging Europe, and about how to improve relations between our two countries.\u201dThe row between the two countries has dominated the German media over the past week, exacerbated by the broadcast last Sunday of a two-year-old video showing the Greek finance minister, Yanis Varoufakis, apparently raising his middle finger to Germany.\u201cTsipras has to recognise that the zig-zag manoeuvring of finance minister Varoufakis has damaged his government in Europe,\u201d Oppermann added.Asked what he expected from Merkel during the meeting, he said, \u201cIt\u2019s Tsipras\u2019 move now, not Merkel\u2019s.\u201dDer Spiegel\u2019s latest cover reflects the mood of confrontation. Beneath the headline, How Europeans see Germans - the German supremacy, the magazine printed an image of senior Nazi officers next to the Parthenon in occupied Athens during the second world war with Merkel standing among them smiling.Germany\u2019s opposition leaders have taken a more conciliatory stance, with the Green party chairwoman, Simone Peters, calling on both Merkel and Tsipras to \u201cget over the primitive rhetoric of the past weeks and give German-Greek relations a new chance\u201d.\u201cA social reform course from the Greeks must find the support of the government as much as reviving sustainable investments and the relief of Greece\u2019s oppressive debt burden,\u201d she told German news agency DPA.AFP contributed to this report", "tags": ["Greece", "Angela Merkel", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Alexis Tsipras", "Syriza", "Eurozone"], "title": "Tsipras to meet Merkel amid tensions between Greece and Germany"},{"date": "2015-03-13T19:25:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The spokesman of the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has denied a \u201cprivate feud\u201d has broken out between Berlin and Athens, as the radical Syriza government battles to avoid leaving the single currency \u2013 a risk euro-watchers have dubbed \u201cGrexident\u201d.As Athens rushes to implement economic reforms and convince its creditors to extend emergency funding, Steffen Seibert, Merkel\u2019s official spokesman, insisted Greece\u2019s economic future should not be reduced to a face off between the two nations.\u201cI neither see a private feud nor do I view the whole issue of Greece and how it solves its problems as a bilateral German-Greek topic\u201d, he said, reiterating that Merkel wants Greece to stay inside the single currency.Tensions between Greece and Germany have been running high, after Syriza rekindled a row over war reparations to the Greek people earlier this week.On Friday, the EU economics commissioner, Pierre Moscovici, said in a German magazine interview that a Greek exit from the euro would be a \u201ccatastrophe\u201d, despite some analysts having sought to play down the consequences.\u201cAll of us in Europe probably agree that a Grexit would be a catastrophe \u2013 for the Greek economy, but also for the eurozone as a whole,\u201d he told Der Spiegel. \u201cIf one country leaves this union, the markets will immediately ask which country is next. And that could be the beginning of the end.\u201dGreece has been granted a four-month window to implement economic reforms after striking a last-minute deal with its creditors to extend its \u20ac240bn bailout.Yanis Varoufakis, Syriza\u2019s controversial finance minister, insisted his party would be able to satisfy the 20 February agreement \u2013 even if that means delaying some of its election promises. \u201cWe have a commitment, all of us, to reach an agreement by 20 April,\u201d he told reporters on the sidelines of a conference in Italy. \u201cIf this means that, for the next few months that we have negotiations, we suspend or we delay the implementation of our [election] promises, we should do precisely that in the context to build trust with our partners,\u201d he said. However, he is likely to face pressure from within his own party to live up to the anti-austerity rhetoric of the election campaign.Analysts at Fathom, a City consultancy company, said: \u201cThe chances that the beleaguered Greek government \u2013 which by promising to both keep the country in the euro area and abolish austerity has painted itself into a corner \u2013 will turn to the bolt-hole of a referendum are increasing. As such \u2013 and whatever the outcome of the negotiations \u2013 we expect volatility to increase across the board.\u201dSeibert\u2019s intervention came after German finance minister, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, pointedly refused to rule out the risk that Syriza\u2019s actions could lead to Greece leaving the european single currency, even if that is not the party\u2019s deliberate aim.\u201cAs the responsibility, the possibility to decide what happens, lies only in [the hands of] Greece, and as we do not know what those responsible in Greece are doing, we cannot rule it out,\u201d he told Austrian television, when asked about the possibility of a \u201cGrexident\u201d.Sch\u00e4uble also reiterated that Greece would only get access to new funds if it fulfils its promises.Syriza\u2019s leader, Alexis Tsipras, who was in Brussels for talks with Jean-Claude Juncker, the European commission\u2019s president, yesterday said his countrymen needed to hear an optimistic message from the rest of Europe, as well as a hardline insistence on financial reform.\u201cNow is the time to give a message of hope to the Greek people, not only implement, implement, implement and obligations, obligations, obligations.\u201d", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "Germany", "Angela Merkel", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone", "Euro", "Business", "Economics", "Currencies"], "title": "Angela Merkel's office denies \u2018private feud\u2019 between Greece and Germany"},{"date": "2015-03-12T14:05:40Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It is the politics of the playground. The German finance minister, Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, is accused of calling his Greek counterpart Yanis Varoufakis \u201cfoolishly naive\u201d in his dealings with the media. Athens lodges a formal complaint with Berlin, saying a minister of a country that is a \u201cfriend and ally\u201d cannot go around insulting a colleague.Ya boo to that, says Jens Weidmann, the president of Germany\u2019s Bundesbank. Greece is losing the trust of its partners and it is only right that the European Central Bank should think very hard about whether it wants to extend its exposure to the crisis-ridden country.See if I care, says Varoufakis. I have never had the trust of the German government. What matters is that I have the trust of the Greek people at a time when the ECB is \u201casphyxiating\u201d the country.This outbreak of undiplomatic language might sound funny, but it isn\u2019t. The schism between Germany and Greece is growing wider by the day. Unless Berlin and Athens can come to an amicable agreement, something that looks increasingly less likely, there are only two possible outcomes: Greece capitulates or Greece leaves the euro.Sch\u00e4uble clearly believes that Greece has no intention of going back to the drachma. Varoufakis has said as much, as has the new Greek prime minister, Alexis Tsipras.However, if Greece wants to remain inside the single currency, it is going to need the cooperation and financial support of the other members of the club, including Germany. Greece is going to have to do what it is told by the troika of the ECB, the EU and the International Monetary Fund at some point, so it makes no sense for Athens to start dredging up memories of German occupation in the second world war.Varoufakis is making it even more likely that the rest of the eurozone will play hardball with Greece. It is not clear if Sch\u00e4uble really said the words \u201cfoolishly naive\u201d \u2013 but that would be a fair judgment if the end result is abject capitulation to whatever the troika demands. But as the Labour peer Meghnad Desai points out in an OMFIF blog, there is a way out for the Syriza-led coalition. That is to call a referendum on the basis of who governs Greece.As Desai notes, Tsipras and Varoufakis could say they had underestimated how difficult it would be to end austerity and it was up to the Greek people whether they wanted year after year of externally-imposed pain or exit from the eurozone.A month ago, such an outcome to the Greek crisis looked highly improbable. It now appears far less unlikely, which is one reason why the euro has been under such pressure on the foreign exchanges. At some point, the 35% depreciation of the single currency against the dollar is going to lead to strong exports and a much-needed growth boost.When that happens, the euro will start to climb higher against the pound and the greenback. But not yet. Not until Greece has decided whether it is going to put up or shut up.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "Germany", "European Central Bank", "Economics", "Business", "European monetary union", "Euro", "Currencies"], "title": "Schism between Germany and Greece grows wider by the day"},{"date": "2015-03-12T14:17:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "German finance minister Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble has described as \u201cnonsense\u201d accusations that he insulted his Greek counterpart Yanis Varoufakis with comments that he was \u201cfoolishly naive\u201d.Responding after Athens sent its ambassador to demand an apology from Berlin, Sch\u00e4uble told Reuters: \u201cNo I haven\u2019t insulted my Greek counterpart, that is nonsense.\u201dGreece had lodged its complaint with the German foreign office on Tuesday night, following Sch\u00e4uble\u2019s comments after a meeting of eurozone finance ministers on Monday. The conservative German minister had been referring to Varoufakis\u2019s dealings with the media. Constantinos Koutras, a Greek foreign ministry spokesman, said: \u201cThere was an official complaint from our ambassador in Berlin to the German Foreign Ministry on Tuesday night. It was a complaint after what he [Sch\u00e4uble] said about Mr Varoufakis. As a minister of a country that is our friend and our ally, he cannot personally insult a colleague,\u201d he said.Relations between Germany and Greece have deteriorated since the radical left Syriza-led government in Athens, which was elected in January, used terms such as waterboarding to describe the austerity policies demanded by Brussels. Syriza has also attacked oversight of the Greek government by a troika of officials from the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the European Central Bank (ECB).Germany\u2019s central bank chief, Jens Weidmann, also a policymaker at the ECB, heightened tensions with a speech in Frankfurt that emphasised the loss of trust between between Greece and eurozone governments, which are being asked to extend the terms of Greek loans and ease austerity.Weidmann said the eurozone\u2019s central banks should ensure Greece\u2019s banks do not worsen their liquidity position by buying up Greek government debt for which there is still no market.In an interview with Greece\u2019s Mega TV, Varoufakis attacked the ECB\u2019s refusal to give Athens any leeway to issue short-term debt to meet its funding needs.He said: \u201cThe ECB in my opinion is pursuing a policy that can be considered asphyxiating toward our government.\u201dHe suggested the ECB was hoping to force the hand of Greece and its creditors by increasing the urgency of getting an agreement on reforms.Varoufakis also returned fire on Sch\u00e4uble, saying: [He] has told me I have lost the trust of the German government, I have told him that I never had it. I have the trust of the Greek people.\u201dJens Bastien, an Athens-based economics analyst and former member of the European commission\u2019s task force on Greece, said the country was being pushed increasingly into a corner. In five years of attempting to avert bankruptcy, public finances had rarely been under such strain. \u201cThe combination of a growing funding gap with increased repayment obligations constitutes a tightrope walk for the government in March and an even bigger challenge come July and August,\u201d he said.As Greece scrambles for the funds to repay creditors and avoid default, the European Central Bank has given it limited breathing space by raising the threshold on its emergency liquidity assistance to the country\u2019s banks. Confirming the ECB\u2019s move, one Athens banker said: \u201cIt will give us breathing space and removes part of the immediate and strong pressure but not for long.\u201d He added that the country\u2019s financial community was expecting the ECB to keep up a policy of disbursing \u201csmall injections of cash\u201d until the summer when Greece has to meet debt repayment of approximately \u20ac7.2bn.\u201cWe\u2019re worried, very worried. This kind of support does not in any way provide a cushion or comfort,\u201d the banker said. \u201cTheoretically, by the summer we will have reached agreement on a new bailout [deal] with our creditors but my concern is how the government and [prime minister Alexis] Tsipras is going to handle the mounting dissent within his own party over conditions attached to such aid.\u201d The debt stricken country is resorting to increasingly desperate measures to ward off potential default. In the space of the past week it has raised six-month Treasury bills, tapped into the bank deposits of pensions and public sector salaries, delayed payments to government suppliers and approached the Greek subsidiaries of multinational companies for short-term loans. Athens has to repay about \u20ac270m to the International Monetary Fund on Friday, a further \u20ac450m to the Washington-based body on Monday and \u20ac270m on 20 March. It also has to roll over around \u20ac3.2bn of treasury bills on Friday and 20 March, according to figures released by Goldman Sachs.The broader struggle of eurozone policymakers to spur growth inside the currency bloc was illustrated by industrial production figures that showed a fall of 0.1% in the eurozone in January, dashing the hopes of economists that had expected a small rise of 0.2%.The fall was mainly due to a 2.2% slump in the production of consumer goods, according to the EU\u2019s statistics agency, Eurostat.The largest drops in production were in Latvia (-3.1%), and Finland (-2.5%) while the biggest increase was in Malta (+6.1%).Jessica Hinds, European economist at Capital Economics, said the figures suggested eurozone growth in the first quarter would be weak.\u201cThe broader survey evidence such as the manufacturing output PMI suggest that industrial production growth is likely to remain very weak in the coming months. Accordingly, we see little chance of an imminent pick-up in the industrial sector that would drive a strong recovery in the wider economy,\u201d she said.", "tags": ["Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Business", "Germany", "Eurozone crisis"], "title": "Germany-Greece row heats up as Sch\u00e4uble denies insulting Varoufakis"},{"date": "2015-06-23T07:16:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "German authorities have released al-Jazeera journalist Ahmed Mansour without charge, after he was detained on Saturday by police at Berlin\u2019s Tegel airport on an Egyptian arrest warrant.A spokesman for the state prosecutor said there were \u201cpolitical and diplomatic concerns that could not be ignored\u201d in addition to the legal aspects of the case. These concerns, he said, were discussed with the Berlin state justice minister and the appropriate federal authorities.A lawyer for Mansour, who has dual Egyptian and British citizenship, told al-Jazeera that while his client was happy about the court\u2019s decision, he was also sad that he had been detained.Questions remain as to why the German authorities arrested Mansour at the behest of Egypt\u2019s military regime in the first place, and why they waited until he was at the point of leaving Germany to do so.There was considerable confusion over the warrant, which a German government spokesman said on Monday came via Interpol\u2019s \u201cred notice\u201d system, though both Mansour and Interpol said no such red notice exists against his name. Related: German protests grow over detention of Egyptian journalist According to police spokesman Meik Gauer, the arresting officers at Tegel airport were answerable only to the federal police headquarters, not to Interpol. There also remains a question mark over why the police officers felt obliged to detain Mansour, given that Germany does not have an extradition agreement with Egypt.Cologne-based lawyer Nikolaos Gazeas told Zeit Online: \u201cGermany is not under a legal obligation to extradite to Egypt. That is ultimately a political decision.\u201dFor that reason, legal commentators have suggested the warrant could not have been executed without consultation with the government.Last year, an Egyptian court convicted Mansour in absentia of torturing a lawyer in Tahrir Square in 2011 and sentenced him to 15 years in prison. Mansour rejected the charges, calling them \u201ca flimsy attempt at character assassination\u201d.On Monday morning, a group calling itself the German-Egyptian Union for Democracy gathered about 100 protesters outside the Berlin jail where Mansour was being detained. They held signs that read: \u201cFreedom for Ahmed Mansour. Freedom for Egypt. Freedom for journalists.\u201dMPs across Germany\u2019s main political parties had voiced concern over his detention. Among the most outspoken was the opposition Green party\u2019s Franziska Brantner, who said in a statement on her website: \u201cThe Berlin judiciary should under no circumstances allow itself to become a willing tool of the capricious regime in Cairo.\u201dEgypt accuses both Qatar and al-Jazeera of supporting the Muslim Brotherhood, which was branded a terrorist organisation after the military deposed Mohamed Morsi as president in 2013. Three journalists with al-Jazeera English spent more than 400 days in prison following their arrest in Cairo in late 2013. Their trial was regarded internationally as a farce.Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, was criticised by opposition parties and rights groups for hosting the Egyptian president, Abdel Fatah al-Sisi, on a state visit this month. During the visit, the German industrial group Siemens signed an \u20ac8bn deal with Egypt to supply gas and wind power plants.Since Sisi took power in 2013 and won a presidential election the following year, courts in Egypt have issued scores of death sentences against Muslim Brotherhood members including the group\u2019s leadership. ", "tags": ["Egypt", "Germany", "World news", "Al-Jazeera", "Europe", "Media", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Germany frees Al-Jazeera journalist Ahmed Mansour"},{"date": "2015-06-23T07:16:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "German authorities have released al-Jazeera journalist Ahmed Mansour without charge, after he was detained on Saturday by police at Berlin\u2019s Tegel airport on an Egyptian arrest warrant.A spokesman for the state prosecutor said there were \u201cpolitical and diplomatic concerns that could not be ignored\u201d in addition to the legal aspects of the case. These concerns, he said, were discussed with the Berlin state justice minister and the appropriate federal authorities.A lawyer for Mansour, who has dual Egyptian and British citizenship, told al-Jazeera that while his client was happy about the court\u2019s decision, he was also sad that he had been detained.Questions remain as to why the German authorities arrested Mansour at the behest of Egypt\u2019s military regime in the first place, and why they waited until he was at the point of leaving Germany to do so.There was considerable confusion over the warrant, which a German government spokesman said on Monday came via Interpol\u2019s \u201cred notice\u201d system, though both Mansour and Interpol said no such red notice exists against his name. Related: German protests grow over detention of Egyptian journalist According to police spokesman Meik Gauer, the arresting officers at Tegel airport were answerable only to the federal police headquarters, not to Interpol. There also remains a question mark over why the police officers felt obliged to detain Mansour, given that Germany does not have an extradition agreement with Egypt.Cologne-based lawyer Nikolaos Gazeas told Zeit Online: \u201cGermany is not under a legal obligation to extradite to Egypt. That is ultimately a political decision.\u201dFor that reason, legal commentators have suggested the warrant could not have been executed without consultation with the government.Last year, an Egyptian court convicted Mansour in absentia of torturing a lawyer in Tahrir Square in 2011 and sentenced him to 15 years in prison. Mansour rejected the charges, calling them \u201ca flimsy attempt at character assassination\u201d.On Monday morning, a group calling itself the German-Egyptian Union for Democracy gathered about 100 protesters outside the Berlin jail where Mansour was being detained. They held signs that read: \u201cFreedom for Ahmed Mansour. Freedom for Egypt. Freedom for journalists.\u201dMPs across Germany\u2019s main political parties had voiced concern over his detention. Among the most outspoken was the opposition Green party\u2019s Franziska Brantner, who said in a statement on her website: \u201cThe Berlin judiciary should under no circumstances allow itself to become a willing tool of the capricious regime in Cairo.\u201dEgypt accuses both Qatar and al-Jazeera of supporting the Muslim Brotherhood, which was branded a terrorist organisation after the military deposed Mohamed Morsi as president in 2013. Three journalists with al-Jazeera English spent more than 400 days in prison following their arrest in Cairo in late 2013. Their trial was regarded internationally as a farce.Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, was criticised by opposition parties and rights groups for hosting the Egyptian president, Abdel Fatah al-Sisi, on a state visit this month. During the visit, the German industrial group Siemens signed an \u20ac8bn deal with Egypt to supply gas and wind power plants.Since Sisi took power in 2013 and won a presidential election the following year, courts in Egypt have issued scores of death sentences against Muslim Brotherhood members including the group\u2019s leadership. ", "tags": ["Egypt", "Germany", "World news", "Al-Jazeera", "Europe", "Media", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Germany frees Al-Jazeera journalist Ahmed Mansour"},{"date": "2015-06-23T15:22:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The al-Jazeera journalist who was detained in Germany for three days on an Egyptian arrest warrant has accused the Berlin administration of allowing itself to be manipulated by its counterpart in Cairo.Ahmed Mansour, who was released on Monday without charge, told a press conference on Tuesday he still had not been told why he ended up on a German police wanted list and why he was arrested while trying to leave the country on Saturday.\u201cGerman government representatives allowed themselves to be instrumentalised by Cairo,\u201d Mansour said. He added that he regretted the fact that the Egyptian government had succeeded in \u201cusing some people in the German government for its own means\u201d.He called on the German government to give answers about the incident, which saw him held at Berlin\u2019s Tegel airport on Saturday, apparently at the behest of Egypt\u2019s military regime. Mansour repeated his assertion \u2013 and that of Interpol \u2013 that despite a German government spokesman saying the arrest warrant had come via Interpol\u2019s \u201cred notice\u201d system, no such notice exists against his name. Related: Germany frees Al-Jazeera journalist Ahmed Mansour The 52-year-old journalist is one of the most prominent presenters on al-Jazeera with a weekly programme that, according to him, attracts 14 million viewers worldwide. He said he feared the \u201cdictatorial, oppressor regime\u201d had managed to \u201cexport part of its dictatorship, its oppression and its judicial transgressions to Germany\u201d.Mansour said it was up to German journalists to work out whether there was a connection between Egyptian president Abdel Fatah-al-Sisi\u2019s state visit earlier this month and his arrest.During the visit, the German industrial group Siemens signed an \u20ac8bn (\u00a35.7bn) deal with Egypt to supply gas and windpower plants.Mansour, who holds dual Egyptian and British citizenship but always travels on his British passport, said he was grateful to his German lawyers and the judiciary for preventing his extradition to Egypt, praising in particular the chief prosecutor, Harald Range, who resisted pressure to keep Mansour in detention.Last year, Mansour was convicted in absentia by an Egyptian court of torturing a lawyer in Tahrir Square in 2011 and sentenced to 15 years in prison. He has rejected the charges.His lawyers said they had a \u201cburning interest\u201d to find out why their client was arrested in the first place. \u201cThere is much need for answers,\u201d Patrick Teubner said, adding that it remained puzzling how an \u201cobviously politically motivated manhunt\u201d by the Egyptian judiciary \u201ccould have had any validity in Germany\u201d.Mansour, who denies any connection to the Muslim Brotherhood, which al-Jazeera has been accused of supporting, said he had had no problems on two visits to Germany earlier this year.He was travelling on Tuesday evening to Doha, where he planned to present his weekly programme Bela Hodod (Without Frontiers). He would return to Germany in the near future to discuss the incident with politicians, he added. Mansour said the Sisi government, which came into power in 2013, \u201chates the free press and, as I speak to you, there are currently more than 70 Egyptian journalists currently being held in prison for speaking the truth\u201d.", "tags": ["Al-Jazeera", "Germany", "Egypt", "Europe", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Al-Jazeera journalist accuses Germany of being manipulated by Egypt"},{"date": "2015-06-23T07:16:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "German authorities have released al-Jazeera journalist Ahmed Mansour without charge, after he was detained on Saturday by police at Berlin\u2019s Tegel airport on an Egyptian arrest warrant.A spokesman for the state prosecutor said there were \u201cpolitical and diplomatic concerns that could not be ignored\u201d in addition to the legal aspects of the case. These concerns, he said, were discussed with the Berlin state justice minister and the appropriate federal authorities.A lawyer for Mansour, who has dual Egyptian and British citizenship, told al-Jazeera that while his client was happy about the court\u2019s decision, he was also sad that he had been detained.Questions remain as to why the German authorities arrested Mansour at the behest of Egypt\u2019s military regime in the first place, and why they waited until he was at the point of leaving Germany to do so.There was considerable confusion over the warrant, which a German government spokesman said on Monday came via Interpol\u2019s \u201cred notice\u201d system, though both Mansour and Interpol said no such red notice exists against his name. Related: German protests grow over detention of Egyptian journalist According to police spokesman Meik Gauer, the arresting officers at Tegel airport were answerable only to the federal police headquarters, not to Interpol. There also remains a question mark over why the police officers felt obliged to detain Mansour, given that Germany does not have an extradition agreement with Egypt.Cologne-based lawyer Nikolaos Gazeas told Zeit Online: \u201cGermany is not under a legal obligation to extradite to Egypt. That is ultimately a political decision.\u201dFor that reason, legal commentators have suggested the warrant could not have been executed without consultation with the government.Last year, an Egyptian court convicted Mansour in absentia of torturing a lawyer in Tahrir Square in 2011 and sentenced him to 15 years in prison. Mansour rejected the charges, calling them \u201ca flimsy attempt at character assassination\u201d.On Monday morning, a group calling itself the German-Egyptian Union for Democracy gathered about 100 protesters outside the Berlin jail where Mansour was being detained. They held signs that read: \u201cFreedom for Ahmed Mansour. Freedom for Egypt. Freedom for journalists.\u201dMPs across Germany\u2019s main political parties had voiced concern over his detention. Among the most outspoken was the opposition Green party\u2019s Franziska Brantner, who said in a statement on her website: \u201cThe Berlin judiciary should under no circumstances allow itself to become a willing tool of the capricious regime in Cairo.\u201dEgypt accuses both Qatar and al-Jazeera of supporting the Muslim Brotherhood, which was branded a terrorist organisation after the military deposed Mohamed Morsi as president in 2013. Three journalists with al-Jazeera English spent more than 400 days in prison following their arrest in Cairo in late 2013. Their trial was regarded internationally as a farce.Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, was criticised by opposition parties and rights groups for hosting the Egyptian president, Abdel Fatah al-Sisi, on a state visit this month. During the visit, the German industrial group Siemens signed an \u20ac8bn deal with Egypt to supply gas and wind power plants.Since Sisi took power in 2013 and won a presidential election the following year, courts in Egypt have issued scores of death sentences against Muslim Brotherhood members including the group\u2019s leadership. ", "tags": ["Egypt", "Germany", "World news", "Al-Jazeera", "Europe", "Media", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Germany frees Al-Jazeera journalist Ahmed Mansour"},{"date": "2015-06-23T15:22:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The al-Jazeera journalist who was detained in Germany for three days on an Egyptian arrest warrant has accused the Berlin administration of allowing itself to be manipulated by its counterpart in Cairo.Ahmed Mansour, who was released on Monday without charge, told a press conference on Tuesday he still had not been told why he ended up on a German police wanted list and why he was arrested while trying to leave the country on Saturday.\u201cGerman government representatives allowed themselves to be instrumentalised by Cairo,\u201d Mansour said. He added that he regretted the fact that the Egyptian government had succeeded in \u201cusing some people in the German government for its own means\u201d.He called on the German government to give answers about the incident, which saw him held at Berlin\u2019s Tegel airport on Saturday, apparently at the behest of Egypt\u2019s military regime. Mansour repeated his assertion \u2013 and that of Interpol \u2013 that despite a German government spokesman saying the arrest warrant had come via Interpol\u2019s \u201cred notice\u201d system, no such notice exists against his name. Related: Germany frees Al-Jazeera journalist Ahmed Mansour The 52-year-old journalist is one of the most prominent presenters on al-Jazeera with a weekly programme that, according to him, attracts 14 million viewers worldwide. He said he feared the \u201cdictatorial, oppressor regime\u201d had managed to \u201cexport part of its dictatorship, its oppression and its judicial transgressions to Germany\u201d.Mansour said it was up to German journalists to work out whether there was a connection between Egyptian president Abdel Fatah-al-Sisi\u2019s state visit earlier this month and his arrest.During the visit, the German industrial group Siemens signed an \u20ac8bn (\u00a35.7bn) deal with Egypt to supply gas and windpower plants.Mansour, who holds dual Egyptian and British citizenship but always travels on his British passport, said he was grateful to his German lawyers and the judiciary for preventing his extradition to Egypt, praising in particular the chief prosecutor, Harald Range, who resisted pressure to keep Mansour in detention.Last year, Mansour was convicted in absentia by an Egyptian court of torturing a lawyer in Tahrir Square in 2011 and sentenced to 15 years in prison. He has rejected the charges.His lawyers said they had a \u201cburning interest\u201d to find out why their client was arrested in the first place. \u201cThere is much need for answers,\u201d Patrick Teubner said, adding that it remained puzzling how an \u201cobviously politically motivated manhunt\u201d by the Egyptian judiciary \u201ccould have had any validity in Germany\u201d.Mansour, who denies any connection to the Muslim Brotherhood, which al-Jazeera has been accused of supporting, said he had had no problems on two visits to Germany earlier this year.He was travelling on Tuesday evening to Doha, where he planned to present his weekly programme Bela Hodod (Without Frontiers). He would return to Germany in the near future to discuss the incident with politicians, he added. Mansour said the Sisi government, which came into power in 2013, \u201chates the free press and, as I speak to you, there are currently more than 70 Egyptian journalists currently being held in prison for speaking the truth\u201d.", "tags": ["Al-Jazeera", "Germany", "Egypt", "Europe", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Al-Jazeera journalist accuses Germany of being manipulated by Egypt"},{"date": "2015-06-16T13:28:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A 65-year-old man has died in Germany from medical complications after being treated for the Mers-CoV virus that has spread through the Middle East and spilled out to other regions.The man is believed to have contracted the virus from an infected camel during a visit to a livestock market in the United Arab Emirates in February.Doctors treated the man for the respiratory virus after he fell ill and later released him from an isolation ward in the belief they had cured him. But according to the Lower Saxony health ministry, the man died on 6 June in the western town of Ostercappeln from lung disease after recovering from the Mers infection. Michael Schiffbaenker, a spokesman for the Niels-Stensen group of hospitals, said on Tuesday that the hospital had agreed with the family not to release details of the fatal infection but said the Mers virus had weakened the man\u2019s body.More than 200 people who may have been in contact with him were subsequently tested, but no others were found to carry the virus. \u201cAny contagion with the Mers virus of people in contact with the patient was able to be prevented,\u201d the ministry said in a statement.The death is the first in two years in Germany, and the third case in the country in total. Two patients from Qatar and the UAE were treated for the virus in 2012 and 2013, one of whom died.Mers was first detected in Saudi Arabia in 2012 and has since spread across the Arabian peninsula and to Europe, Asia and North America. Globally, 1,200 people have fallen ill and at least 450 have died. Most deaths have occurred in people with other medical conditions and those with weakened immune systems. Related: South Korea Mers outbreak is 'large and complex', says WHO, as 14th victim dies Mers, or Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus, belongs to the same family of viruses as Sars, which sparked a global emergency in 2003.An ongoing Mers outbreak in South Korea, which began after a 68-year-old man caught the infection in the Middle East, has spread to at least 154 people and killed at least 19. Nearly half of the people, 46%, caught the virus after visiting infected family members in Seoul\u2019s Samsung medical centre. In an attempt to contain its spread, South Korean health officials have quarantined more than 5,500 people, most of whom have been told to stay in their homes. A fifth are being held in hospital. The number of new cases is beginning to drop, officials said.Two hospitals in South Korea are embarking on an experimental plasma treatment, based on blood taken from patients who have fought off the virus. Cornelia Rundt, a German regional health minister, said: \u201cThe example of South Korea tragically shows that such coordinated management of Mers cases is absolutely crucial.\u201d ", "tags": ["Infectious diseases", "Science", "Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Man in Germany dies of complications stemming from Mers virus"},{"date": "2015-06-23T07:16:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "German authorities have released al-Jazeera journalist Ahmed Mansour without charge, after he was detained on Saturday by police at Berlin\u2019s Tegel airport on an Egyptian arrest warrant.A spokesman for the state prosecutor said there were \u201cpolitical and diplomatic concerns that could not be ignored\u201d in addition to the legal aspects of the case. These concerns, he said, were discussed with the Berlin state justice minister and the appropriate federal authorities.A lawyer for Mansour, who has dual Egyptian and British citizenship, told al-Jazeera that while his client was happy about the court\u2019s decision, he was also sad that he had been detained.Questions remain as to why the German authorities arrested Mansour at the behest of Egypt\u2019s military regime in the first place, and why they waited until he was at the point of leaving Germany to do so.There was considerable confusion over the warrant, which a German government spokesman said on Monday came via Interpol\u2019s \u201cred notice\u201d system, though both Mansour and Interpol said no such red notice exists against his name. Related: German protests grow over detention of Egyptian journalist According to police spokesman Meik Gauer, the arresting officers at Tegel airport were answerable only to the federal police headquarters, not to Interpol. There also remains a question mark over why the police officers felt obliged to detain Mansour, given that Germany does not have an extradition agreement with Egypt.Cologne-based lawyer Nikolaos Gazeas told Zeit Online: \u201cGermany is not under a legal obligation to extradite to Egypt. That is ultimately a political decision.\u201dFor that reason, legal commentators have suggested the warrant could not have been executed without consultation with the government.Last year, an Egyptian court convicted Mansour in absentia of torturing a lawyer in Tahrir Square in 2011 and sentenced him to 15 years in prison. Mansour rejected the charges, calling them \u201ca flimsy attempt at character assassination\u201d.On Monday morning, a group calling itself the German-Egyptian Union for Democracy gathered about 100 protesters outside the Berlin jail where Mansour was being detained. They held signs that read: \u201cFreedom for Ahmed Mansour. Freedom for Egypt. Freedom for journalists.\u201dMPs across Germany\u2019s main political parties had voiced concern over his detention. Among the most outspoken was the opposition Green party\u2019s Franziska Brantner, who said in a statement on her website: \u201cThe Berlin judiciary should under no circumstances allow itself to become a willing tool of the capricious regime in Cairo.\u201dEgypt accuses both Qatar and al-Jazeera of supporting the Muslim Brotherhood, which was branded a terrorist organisation after the military deposed Mohamed Morsi as president in 2013. Three journalists with al-Jazeera English spent more than 400 days in prison following their arrest in Cairo in late 2013. Their trial was regarded internationally as a farce.Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, was criticised by opposition parties and rights groups for hosting the Egyptian president, Abdel Fatah al-Sisi, on a state visit this month. During the visit, the German industrial group Siemens signed an \u20ac8bn deal with Egypt to supply gas and wind power plants.Since Sisi took power in 2013 and won a presidential election the following year, courts in Egypt have issued scores of death sentences against Muslim Brotherhood members including the group\u2019s leadership. ", "tags": ["Egypt", "Germany", "World news", "Al-Jazeera", "Europe", "Media", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Germany frees Al-Jazeera journalist Ahmed Mansour"},{"date": "2015-06-23T15:22:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The al-Jazeera journalist who was detained in Germany for three days on an Egyptian arrest warrant has accused the Berlin administration of allowing itself to be manipulated by its counterpart in Cairo.Ahmed Mansour, who was released on Monday without charge, told a press conference on Tuesday he still had not been told why he ended up on a German police wanted list and why he was arrested while trying to leave the country on Saturday.\u201cGerman government representatives allowed themselves to be instrumentalised by Cairo,\u201d Mansour said. He added that he regretted the fact that the Egyptian government had succeeded in \u201cusing some people in the German government for its own means\u201d.He called on the German government to give answers about the incident, which saw him held at Berlin\u2019s Tegel airport on Saturday, apparently at the behest of Egypt\u2019s military regime. Mansour repeated his assertion \u2013 and that of Interpol \u2013 that despite a German government spokesman saying the arrest warrant had come via Interpol\u2019s \u201cred notice\u201d system, no such notice exists against his name. Related: Germany frees Al-Jazeera journalist Ahmed Mansour The 52-year-old journalist is one of the most prominent presenters on al-Jazeera with a weekly programme that, according to him, attracts 14 million viewers worldwide. He said he feared the \u201cdictatorial, oppressor regime\u201d had managed to \u201cexport part of its dictatorship, its oppression and its judicial transgressions to Germany\u201d.Mansour said it was up to German journalists to work out whether there was a connection between Egyptian president Abdel Fatah-al-Sisi\u2019s state visit earlier this month and his arrest.During the visit, the German industrial group Siemens signed an \u20ac8bn (\u00a35.7bn) deal with Egypt to supply gas and windpower plants.Mansour, who holds dual Egyptian and British citizenship but always travels on his British passport, said he was grateful to his German lawyers and the judiciary for preventing his extradition to Egypt, praising in particular the chief prosecutor, Harald Range, who resisted pressure to keep Mansour in detention.Last year, Mansour was convicted in absentia by an Egyptian court of torturing a lawyer in Tahrir Square in 2011 and sentenced to 15 years in prison. He has rejected the charges.His lawyers said they had a \u201cburning interest\u201d to find out why their client was arrested in the first place. \u201cThere is much need for answers,\u201d Patrick Teubner said, adding that it remained puzzling how an \u201cobviously politically motivated manhunt\u201d by the Egyptian judiciary \u201ccould have had any validity in Germany\u201d.Mansour, who denies any connection to the Muslim Brotherhood, which al-Jazeera has been accused of supporting, said he had had no problems on two visits to Germany earlier this year.He was travelling on Tuesday evening to Doha, where he planned to present his weekly programme Bela Hodod (Without Frontiers). He would return to Germany in the near future to discuss the incident with politicians, he added. Mansour said the Sisi government, which came into power in 2013, \u201chates the free press and, as I speak to you, there are currently more than 70 Egyptian journalists currently being held in prison for speaking the truth\u201d.", "tags": ["Al-Jazeera", "Germany", "Egypt", "Europe", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Al-Jazeera journalist accuses Germany of being manipulated by Egypt"},{"date": "2015-06-16T13:28:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A 65-year-old man has died in Germany from medical complications after being treated for the Mers-CoV virus that has spread through the Middle East and spilled out to other regions.The man is believed to have contracted the virus from an infected camel during a visit to a livestock market in the United Arab Emirates in February.Doctors treated the man for the respiratory virus after he fell ill and later released him from an isolation ward in the belief they had cured him. But according to the Lower Saxony health ministry, the man died on 6 June in the western town of Ostercappeln from lung disease after recovering from the Mers infection. Michael Schiffbaenker, a spokesman for the Niels-Stensen group of hospitals, said on Tuesday that the hospital had agreed with the family not to release details of the fatal infection but said the Mers virus had weakened the man\u2019s body.More than 200 people who may have been in contact with him were subsequently tested, but no others were found to carry the virus. \u201cAny contagion with the Mers virus of people in contact with the patient was able to be prevented,\u201d the ministry said in a statement.The death is the first in two years in Germany, and the third case in the country in total. Two patients from Qatar and the UAE were treated for the virus in 2012 and 2013, one of whom died.Mers was first detected in Saudi Arabia in 2012 and has since spread across the Arabian peninsula and to Europe, Asia and North America. Globally, 1,200 people have fallen ill and at least 450 have died. Most deaths have occurred in people with other medical conditions and those with weakened immune systems. Related: South Korea Mers outbreak is 'large and complex', says WHO, as 14th victim dies Mers, or Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus, belongs to the same family of viruses as Sars, which sparked a global emergency in 2003.An ongoing Mers outbreak in South Korea, which began after a 68-year-old man caught the infection in the Middle East, has spread to at least 154 people and killed at least 19. Nearly half of the people, 46%, caught the virus after visiting infected family members in Seoul\u2019s Samsung medical centre. In an attempt to contain its spread, South Korean health officials have quarantined more than 5,500 people, most of whom have been told to stay in their homes. A fifth are being held in hospital. The number of new cases is beginning to drop, officials said.Two hospitals in South Korea are embarking on an experimental plasma treatment, based on blood taken from patients who have fought off the virus. Cornelia Rundt, a German regional health minister, said: \u201cThe example of South Korea tragically shows that such coordinated management of Mers cases is absolutely crucial.\u201d ", "tags": ["Infectious diseases", "Science", "Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Man in Germany dies of complications stemming from Mers virus"},{"date": "2015-06-02T23:45:37Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It was always going to be a rather unequal collision: a Toyota hatchback on one side, and one of the British Army\u2019s main battle tanks on the other.In the end though, the novice driver of a car who police said had inadvertently turned into the path of a convoy of tanks in north-west Germany escaped unscathed.Her car, however, was left rather the worse for wear after the convoy\u2019s lead tank was unable to stop in time and ploughed over the Toyota\u2019s bonnet.The car\u2019s driver, 18, had apparently not seen the convoy when she made a left turn in front of it as the tanks travelled through the small town of Augustdorf, according to German police spokesman, Lars Risserbusch.The tanks, from a British base in nearby Paderborn, were en route to training exercises on Monday morning. Police estimate the collision caused \u20ac12,000 (\u00a38,700) of damage to the woman\u2019s car.An British army spokesperson said: \u201cWe can confirm that there was a road traffic incident involving a Challenger 2 tank and a car driven by a German national. The Royal Military police are working alongside the German civil police to investigate the incident.\u201dEarlier this year, another British military vehicle from the Paderborn garrison ploughed through the fence of an elderly couple. The military said that a mechanical fault had led to the armoured Warrior vehicle veering off the road.A British military spokesperson was quoted in The Local website denying that tank drivers needed to have their training re-assessed.\u201cOur tank crews go through a very rigorous training process,\u201d he said, reportedly adding that three members of personnel inside monitor the road \u201cwhich is why they were able to stop soon enough\u201d.", "tags": ["Military", "Germany", "Europe", "UK news"], "title": "British battle tank crushes woman's car in Germany"},{"date": "2015-06-23T07:16:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "German authorities have released al-Jazeera journalist Ahmed Mansour without charge, after he was detained on Saturday by police at Berlin\u2019s Tegel airport on an Egyptian arrest warrant.A spokesman for the state prosecutor said there were \u201cpolitical and diplomatic concerns that could not be ignored\u201d in addition to the legal aspects of the case. These concerns, he said, were discussed with the Berlin state justice minister and the appropriate federal authorities.A lawyer for Mansour, who has dual Egyptian and British citizenship, told al-Jazeera that while his client was happy about the court\u2019s decision, he was also sad that he had been detained.Questions remain as to why the German authorities arrested Mansour at the behest of Egypt\u2019s military regime in the first place, and why they waited until he was at the point of leaving Germany to do so.There was considerable confusion over the warrant, which a German government spokesman said on Monday came via Interpol\u2019s \u201cred notice\u201d system, though both Mansour and Interpol said no such red notice exists against his name. Related: German protests grow over detention of Egyptian journalist According to police spokesman Meik Gauer, the arresting officers at Tegel airport were answerable only to the federal police headquarters, not to Interpol. There also remains a question mark over why the police officers felt obliged to detain Mansour, given that Germany does not have an extradition agreement with Egypt.Cologne-based lawyer Nikolaos Gazeas told Zeit Online: \u201cGermany is not under a legal obligation to extradite to Egypt. That is ultimately a political decision.\u201dFor that reason, legal commentators have suggested the warrant could not have been executed without consultation with the government.Last year, an Egyptian court convicted Mansour in absentia of torturing a lawyer in Tahrir Square in 2011 and sentenced him to 15 years in prison. Mansour rejected the charges, calling them \u201ca flimsy attempt at character assassination\u201d.On Monday morning, a group calling itself the German-Egyptian Union for Democracy gathered about 100 protesters outside the Berlin jail where Mansour was being detained. They held signs that read: \u201cFreedom for Ahmed Mansour. Freedom for Egypt. Freedom for journalists.\u201dMPs across Germany\u2019s main political parties had voiced concern over his detention. Among the most outspoken was the opposition Green party\u2019s Franziska Brantner, who said in a statement on her website: \u201cThe Berlin judiciary should under no circumstances allow itself to become a willing tool of the capricious regime in Cairo.\u201dEgypt accuses both Qatar and al-Jazeera of supporting the Muslim Brotherhood, which was branded a terrorist organisation after the military deposed Mohamed Morsi as president in 2013. Three journalists with al-Jazeera English spent more than 400 days in prison following their arrest in Cairo in late 2013. Their trial was regarded internationally as a farce.Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, was criticised by opposition parties and rights groups for hosting the Egyptian president, Abdel Fatah al-Sisi, on a state visit this month. During the visit, the German industrial group Siemens signed an \u20ac8bn deal with Egypt to supply gas and wind power plants.Since Sisi took power in 2013 and won a presidential election the following year, courts in Egypt have issued scores of death sentences against Muslim Brotherhood members including the group\u2019s leadership. ", "tags": ["Egypt", "Germany", "World news", "Al-Jazeera", "Europe", "Media", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Germany frees Al-Jazeera journalist Ahmed Mansour"},{"date": "2015-06-23T15:22:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The al-Jazeera journalist who was detained in Germany for three days on an Egyptian arrest warrant has accused the Berlin administration of allowing itself to be manipulated by its counterpart in Cairo.Ahmed Mansour, who was released on Monday without charge, told a press conference on Tuesday he still had not been told why he ended up on a German police wanted list and why he was arrested while trying to leave the country on Saturday.\u201cGerman government representatives allowed themselves to be instrumentalised by Cairo,\u201d Mansour said. He added that he regretted the fact that the Egyptian government had succeeded in \u201cusing some people in the German government for its own means\u201d.He called on the German government to give answers about the incident, which saw him held at Berlin\u2019s Tegel airport on Saturday, apparently at the behest of Egypt\u2019s military regime. Mansour repeated his assertion \u2013 and that of Interpol \u2013 that despite a German government spokesman saying the arrest warrant had come via Interpol\u2019s \u201cred notice\u201d system, no such notice exists against his name. Related: Germany frees Al-Jazeera journalist Ahmed Mansour The 52-year-old journalist is one of the most prominent presenters on al-Jazeera with a weekly programme that, according to him, attracts 14 million viewers worldwide. He said he feared the \u201cdictatorial, oppressor regime\u201d had managed to \u201cexport part of its dictatorship, its oppression and its judicial transgressions to Germany\u201d.Mansour said it was up to German journalists to work out whether there was a connection between Egyptian president Abdel Fatah-al-Sisi\u2019s state visit earlier this month and his arrest.During the visit, the German industrial group Siemens signed an \u20ac8bn (\u00a35.7bn) deal with Egypt to supply gas and windpower plants.Mansour, who holds dual Egyptian and British citizenship but always travels on his British passport, said he was grateful to his German lawyers and the judiciary for preventing his extradition to Egypt, praising in particular the chief prosecutor, Harald Range, who resisted pressure to keep Mansour in detention.Last year, Mansour was convicted in absentia by an Egyptian court of torturing a lawyer in Tahrir Square in 2011 and sentenced to 15 years in prison. He has rejected the charges.His lawyers said they had a \u201cburning interest\u201d to find out why their client was arrested in the first place. \u201cThere is much need for answers,\u201d Patrick Teubner said, adding that it remained puzzling how an \u201cobviously politically motivated manhunt\u201d by the Egyptian judiciary \u201ccould have had any validity in Germany\u201d.Mansour, who denies any connection to the Muslim Brotherhood, which al-Jazeera has been accused of supporting, said he had had no problems on two visits to Germany earlier this year.He was travelling on Tuesday evening to Doha, where he planned to present his weekly programme Bela Hodod (Without Frontiers). He would return to Germany in the near future to discuss the incident with politicians, he added. Mansour said the Sisi government, which came into power in 2013, \u201chates the free press and, as I speak to you, there are currently more than 70 Egyptian journalists currently being held in prison for speaking the truth\u201d.", "tags": ["Al-Jazeera", "Germany", "Egypt", "Europe", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Al-Jazeera journalist accuses Germany of being manipulated by Egypt"},{"date": "2015-06-16T13:28:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A 65-year-old man has died in Germany from medical complications after being treated for the Mers-CoV virus that has spread through the Middle East and spilled out to other regions.The man is believed to have contracted the virus from an infected camel during a visit to a livestock market in the United Arab Emirates in February.Doctors treated the man for the respiratory virus after he fell ill and later released him from an isolation ward in the belief they had cured him. But according to the Lower Saxony health ministry, the man died on 6 June in the western town of Ostercappeln from lung disease after recovering from the Mers infection. Michael Schiffbaenker, a spokesman for the Niels-Stensen group of hospitals, said on Tuesday that the hospital had agreed with the family not to release details of the fatal infection but said the Mers virus had weakened the man\u2019s body.More than 200 people who may have been in contact with him were subsequently tested, but no others were found to carry the virus. \u201cAny contagion with the Mers virus of people in contact with the patient was able to be prevented,\u201d the ministry said in a statement.The death is the first in two years in Germany, and the third case in the country in total. Two patients from Qatar and the UAE were treated for the virus in 2012 and 2013, one of whom died.Mers was first detected in Saudi Arabia in 2012 and has since spread across the Arabian peninsula and to Europe, Asia and North America. Globally, 1,200 people have fallen ill and at least 450 have died. Most deaths have occurred in people with other medical conditions and those with weakened immune systems. Related: South Korea Mers outbreak is 'large and complex', says WHO, as 14th victim dies Mers, or Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus, belongs to the same family of viruses as Sars, which sparked a global emergency in 2003.An ongoing Mers outbreak in South Korea, which began after a 68-year-old man caught the infection in the Middle East, has spread to at least 154 people and killed at least 19. Nearly half of the people, 46%, caught the virus after visiting infected family members in Seoul\u2019s Samsung medical centre. In an attempt to contain its spread, South Korean health officials have quarantined more than 5,500 people, most of whom have been told to stay in their homes. A fifth are being held in hospital. The number of new cases is beginning to drop, officials said.Two hospitals in South Korea are embarking on an experimental plasma treatment, based on blood taken from patients who have fought off the virus. Cornelia Rundt, a German regional health minister, said: \u201cThe example of South Korea tragically shows that such coordinated management of Mers cases is absolutely crucial.\u201d ", "tags": ["Infectious diseases", "Science", "Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Man in Germany dies of complications stemming from Mers virus"},{"date": "2015-06-02T23:45:37Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It was always going to be a rather unequal collision: a Toyota hatchback on one side, and one of the British Army\u2019s main battle tanks on the other.In the end though, the novice driver of a car who police said had inadvertently turned into the path of a convoy of tanks in north-west Germany escaped unscathed.Her car, however, was left rather the worse for wear after the convoy\u2019s lead tank was unable to stop in time and ploughed over the Toyota\u2019s bonnet.The car\u2019s driver, 18, had apparently not seen the convoy when she made a left turn in front of it as the tanks travelled through the small town of Augustdorf, according to German police spokesman, Lars Risserbusch.The tanks, from a British base in nearby Paderborn, were en route to training exercises on Monday morning. Police estimate the collision caused \u20ac12,000 (\u00a38,700) of damage to the woman\u2019s car.An British army spokesperson said: \u201cWe can confirm that there was a road traffic incident involving a Challenger 2 tank and a car driven by a German national. The Royal Military police are working alongside the German civil police to investigate the incident.\u201dEarlier this year, another British military vehicle from the Paderborn garrison ploughed through the fence of an elderly couple. The military said that a mechanical fault had led to the armoured Warrior vehicle veering off the road.A British military spokesperson was quoted in The Local website denying that tank drivers needed to have their training re-assessed.\u201cOur tank crews go through a very rigorous training process,\u201d he said, reportedly adding that three members of personnel inside monitor the road \u201cwhich is why they were able to stop soon enough\u201d.", "tags": ["Military", "Germany", "Europe", "UK news"], "title": "British battle tank crushes woman's car in Germany"},{"date": "2015-05-22T12:30:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "German strikes once seemed like German jokes: a contradiction in terms. But no more: this year, Europe\u2019s largest economy is on course to set a new record for industrial action, with everyone from train drivers, kindergarten and nursery teachers and post office workers staging walkouts recently. The strike wave is more than a conjunctural blip: it is another facet of the inexorable disintegration of what used to be the \u201cGerman model\u201d.Good economic conditions play a part, but unions in the thriving export industries are not the ones that are striking these days. Strikes cluster in domestic services, especially the public sector, and indications are that they are here to stay.In the old days, the powerful unions of the metalworkers set the pace for wage increases throughout the economy. But the last time IG Metall went on a nationwide strike was in 1984. In the 1990s, its members, in particular those in the large car factories, learned the hard way that manufacturing jobs could more easily than ever be moved abroad, to China or the formerly communist eastern Europe.International competition is now no longer just about market share, but also employment. It did not take long for the union leadership to notice this. Fear of unemployment, incidentally, accounts also for German manufacturing workers\u2019 unwillingness to contribute to macroeconomic balance under European monetary union by pushing for higher wages in order to bring down the German export surplus.Today, the action has shifted to services, where job export is more difficult. But other factors also account for the rise of industrial disorder. Since unification, public employers, in pursuit of fiscal consolidation, have broken up Germany\u2019s peculiar public sector collective bargaining regime, which covered everyone from refuse collectors to professors and generated, essentially, the same yearly wage increases for all. Moreover, several occupations \u2013 including train drivers, teachers and postal workers \u2013 lost the uniquely German employment status of Beamter, of civil servants without a right to strike but with lifelong tenure and guaranteed pay raises in line with the rate of economic growth.Furthermore, progressive privatisation of public services, combined with unemployment and the de-unionisation that came with it, increasingly placed public sector wages under competition, leading to hitherto unknown problems for trade unions, caused by what was rapidly becoming a two-tier wage system.Skyrocketing managerial pay is out of joint with the experience of the vast majority of householdsAnother development that contributed to industrial conflict was the rise of new occupations, especially in childcare and care for the elderly. Government rhetoric on the indispensability and moral virtue of their work notwithstanding, they tend to be poorly paid and their employment is often precarious. Care workers have to seek their place in a wage structure that is profoundly in flux. Unless they organise \u2013 for which they can turn to Verdi, the vast public and private service sector union \u2013 they may have to make do with the warm words of politicians who, hard-pressed to balance their budgets, will not necessarily follow up with pay and employment conditions in line with the skills required for quality service in the new occupations.Add to this the fact that technological progress offers employers opportunities to put pressure on previously privileged occupations, such as airline pilots, air traffic controllers and train drivers. Typically, they are asked to accept lower pay, inferior working conditions and less secure employment on the grounds that their jobs are being deskilled by advancements in information-processing technology. In the longer run, they may even be made redundant altogether \u2013 a prospect that paradoxically contributes to wage militancy as severance pay and unemployment benefit are calculated on a worker\u2019s final wage.All of this results in a broad erosion of formal and informal wage norms that for several decades kept the peace in German capitalism. Rising wage differentials and a changing occupational structure cause potentially explosive disagreements on relativities. Where there used to be equal increases for everyone, following the settlement in the metal industry, there is stagnation in exposed sectors and declining wages in large segments of the service sector.Another part of the picture is enormous, Anglo-American-style increases in top management salaries, especially, but by no means exclusively, in finance. This in a country where income differentials between workers and management used to be low. Skyrocketing managerial pay is out of joint with the experience of the vast majority of households, who suffer not only from stagnant or declining wages and deteriorating employment conditions, but also from cuts in public services and benefits. This makes appeals to workers for wage restraint for the benefit of the public and the economy sound hypocritical to many. Related: As cracks in its economy widen, is Germany\u2019s miracle about to fade? The German wage-setting system is approaching a condition of normlessness, similar to what Britain experienced in the 1970s. Then, the Oxford sociologist John Goldthorpe diagnosed a state of industrial anomie: a fundamental absence of consensus on legitimate principles of distribution between capital and labour, as well as between groups of workers.The German government, with its social-democratic labour minister, is trying to suppress surging industrial conflict by curtailing the right to organise and strike by making strikes of sectional trade unions \u2013 like the train drivers \u2013 illegal. But this will fail, very likely in the constitutional court and certainly in practice, in a world in which the structure of firms and sectors is no longer supportive of industrial unionism and its doctrine of \u201cone workplace, one union\u201d, and where train drivers, pilots and others will feel entitled to defend themselves if necessary by going on strike, whatever the law may say.", "tags": ["Germany", "Unions", "Rail transport", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "The strikes sweeping Germany are here to stay | Wolfgang Streeck"},{"date": "2015-06-23T07:16:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "German authorities have released al-Jazeera journalist Ahmed Mansour without charge, after he was detained on Saturday by police at Berlin\u2019s Tegel airport on an Egyptian arrest warrant.A spokesman for the state prosecutor said there were \u201cpolitical and diplomatic concerns that could not be ignored\u201d in addition to the legal aspects of the case. These concerns, he said, were discussed with the Berlin state justice minister and the appropriate federal authorities.A lawyer for Mansour, who has dual Egyptian and British citizenship, told al-Jazeera that while his client was happy about the court\u2019s decision, he was also sad that he had been detained.Questions remain as to why the German authorities arrested Mansour at the behest of Egypt\u2019s military regime in the first place, and why they waited until he was at the point of leaving Germany to do so.There was considerable confusion over the warrant, which a German government spokesman said on Monday came via Interpol\u2019s \u201cred notice\u201d system, though both Mansour and Interpol said no such red notice exists against his name. Related: German protests grow over detention of Egyptian journalist According to police spokesman Meik Gauer, the arresting officers at Tegel airport were answerable only to the federal police headquarters, not to Interpol. There also remains a question mark over why the police officers felt obliged to detain Mansour, given that Germany does not have an extradition agreement with Egypt.Cologne-based lawyer Nikolaos Gazeas told Zeit Online: \u201cGermany is not under a legal obligation to extradite to Egypt. That is ultimately a political decision.\u201dFor that reason, legal commentators have suggested the warrant could not have been executed without consultation with the government.Last year, an Egyptian court convicted Mansour in absentia of torturing a lawyer in Tahrir Square in 2011 and sentenced him to 15 years in prison. Mansour rejected the charges, calling them \u201ca flimsy attempt at character assassination\u201d.On Monday morning, a group calling itself the German-Egyptian Union for Democracy gathered about 100 protesters outside the Berlin jail where Mansour was being detained. They held signs that read: \u201cFreedom for Ahmed Mansour. Freedom for Egypt. Freedom for journalists.\u201dMPs across Germany\u2019s main political parties had voiced concern over his detention. Among the most outspoken was the opposition Green party\u2019s Franziska Brantner, who said in a statement on her website: \u201cThe Berlin judiciary should under no circumstances allow itself to become a willing tool of the capricious regime in Cairo.\u201dEgypt accuses both Qatar and al-Jazeera of supporting the Muslim Brotherhood, which was branded a terrorist organisation after the military deposed Mohamed Morsi as president in 2013. Three journalists with al-Jazeera English spent more than 400 days in prison following their arrest in Cairo in late 2013. Their trial was regarded internationally as a farce.Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, was criticised by opposition parties and rights groups for hosting the Egyptian president, Abdel Fatah al-Sisi, on a state visit this month. During the visit, the German industrial group Siemens signed an \u20ac8bn deal with Egypt to supply gas and wind power plants.Since Sisi took power in 2013 and won a presidential election the following year, courts in Egypt have issued scores of death sentences against Muslim Brotherhood members including the group\u2019s leadership. ", "tags": ["Egypt", "Germany", "World news", "Al-Jazeera", "Europe", "Media", "Middle East and North Africa"], "title": "Germany frees Al-Jazeera journalist Ahmed Mansour"},{"date": "2015-06-23T15:22:15Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The al-Jazeera journalist who was detained in Germany for three days on an Egyptian arrest warrant has accused the Berlin administration of allowing itself to be manipulated by its counterpart in Cairo.Ahmed Mansour, who was released on Monday without charge, told a press conference on Tuesday he still had not been told why he ended up on a German police wanted list and why he was arrested while trying to leave the country on Saturday.\u201cGerman government representatives allowed themselves to be instrumentalised by Cairo,\u201d Mansour said. He added that he regretted the fact that the Egyptian government had succeeded in \u201cusing some people in the German government for its own means\u201d.He called on the German government to give answers about the incident, which saw him held at Berlin\u2019s Tegel airport on Saturday, apparently at the behest of Egypt\u2019s military regime. Mansour repeated his assertion \u2013 and that of Interpol \u2013 that despite a German government spokesman saying the arrest warrant had come via Interpol\u2019s \u201cred notice\u201d system, no such notice exists against his name. Related: Germany frees Al-Jazeera journalist Ahmed Mansour The 52-year-old journalist is one of the most prominent presenters on al-Jazeera with a weekly programme that, according to him, attracts 14 million viewers worldwide. He said he feared the \u201cdictatorial, oppressor regime\u201d had managed to \u201cexport part of its dictatorship, its oppression and its judicial transgressions to Germany\u201d.Mansour said it was up to German journalists to work out whether there was a connection between Egyptian president Abdel Fatah-al-Sisi\u2019s state visit earlier this month and his arrest.During the visit, the German industrial group Siemens signed an \u20ac8bn (\u00a35.7bn) deal with Egypt to supply gas and windpower plants.Mansour, who holds dual Egyptian and British citizenship but always travels on his British passport, said he was grateful to his German lawyers and the judiciary for preventing his extradition to Egypt, praising in particular the chief prosecutor, Harald Range, who resisted pressure to keep Mansour in detention.Last year, Mansour was convicted in absentia by an Egyptian court of torturing a lawyer in Tahrir Square in 2011 and sentenced to 15 years in prison. He has rejected the charges.His lawyers said they had a \u201cburning interest\u201d to find out why their client was arrested in the first place. \u201cThere is much need for answers,\u201d Patrick Teubner said, adding that it remained puzzling how an \u201cobviously politically motivated manhunt\u201d by the Egyptian judiciary \u201ccould have had any validity in Germany\u201d.Mansour, who denies any connection to the Muslim Brotherhood, which al-Jazeera has been accused of supporting, said he had had no problems on two visits to Germany earlier this year.He was travelling on Tuesday evening to Doha, where he planned to present his weekly programme Bela Hodod (Without Frontiers). He would return to Germany in the near future to discuss the incident with politicians, he added. Mansour said the Sisi government, which came into power in 2013, \u201chates the free press and, as I speak to you, there are currently more than 70 Egyptian journalists currently being held in prison for speaking the truth\u201d.", "tags": ["Al-Jazeera", "Germany", "Egypt", "Europe", "World news", "Africa"], "title": "Al-Jazeera journalist accuses Germany of being manipulated by Egypt"},{"date": "2015-06-16T13:28:44Z", "country": "germany", "content": "A 65-year-old man has died in Germany from medical complications after being treated for the Mers-CoV virus that has spread through the Middle East and spilled out to other regions.The man is believed to have contracted the virus from an infected camel during a visit to a livestock market in the United Arab Emirates in February.Doctors treated the man for the respiratory virus after he fell ill and later released him from an isolation ward in the belief they had cured him. But according to the Lower Saxony health ministry, the man died on 6 June in the western town of Ostercappeln from lung disease after recovering from the Mers infection. Michael Schiffbaenker, a spokesman for the Niels-Stensen group of hospitals, said on Tuesday that the hospital had agreed with the family not to release details of the fatal infection but said the Mers virus had weakened the man\u2019s body.More than 200 people who may have been in contact with him were subsequently tested, but no others were found to carry the virus. \u201cAny contagion with the Mers virus of people in contact with the patient was able to be prevented,\u201d the ministry said in a statement.The death is the first in two years in Germany, and the third case in the country in total. Two patients from Qatar and the UAE were treated for the virus in 2012 and 2013, one of whom died.Mers was first detected in Saudi Arabia in 2012 and has since spread across the Arabian peninsula and to Europe, Asia and North America. Globally, 1,200 people have fallen ill and at least 450 have died. Most deaths have occurred in people with other medical conditions and those with weakened immune systems. Related: South Korea Mers outbreak is 'large and complex', says WHO, as 14th victim dies Mers, or Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus, belongs to the same family of viruses as Sars, which sparked a global emergency in 2003.An ongoing Mers outbreak in South Korea, which began after a 68-year-old man caught the infection in the Middle East, has spread to at least 154 people and killed at least 19. Nearly half of the people, 46%, caught the virus after visiting infected family members in Seoul\u2019s Samsung medical centre. In an attempt to contain its spread, South Korean health officials have quarantined more than 5,500 people, most of whom have been told to stay in their homes. A fifth are being held in hospital. The number of new cases is beginning to drop, officials said.Two hospitals in South Korea are embarking on an experimental plasma treatment, based on blood taken from patients who have fought off the virus. Cornelia Rundt, a German regional health minister, said: \u201cThe example of South Korea tragically shows that such coordinated management of Mers cases is absolutely crucial.\u201d ", "tags": ["Infectious diseases", "Science", "Germany", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Man in Germany dies of complications stemming from Mers virus"},{"date": "2015-06-02T23:45:37Z", "country": "germany", "content": "It was always going to be a rather unequal collision: a Toyota hatchback on one side, and one of the British Army\u2019s main battle tanks on the other.In the end though, the novice driver of a car who police said had inadvertently turned into the path of a convoy of tanks in north-west Germany escaped unscathed.Her car, however, was left rather the worse for wear after the convoy\u2019s lead tank was unable to stop in time and ploughed over the Toyota\u2019s bonnet.The car\u2019s driver, 18, had apparently not seen the convoy when she made a left turn in front of it as the tanks travelled through the small town of Augustdorf, according to German police spokesman, Lars Risserbusch.The tanks, from a British base in nearby Paderborn, were en route to training exercises on Monday morning. Police estimate the collision caused \u20ac12,000 (\u00a38,700) of damage to the woman\u2019s car.An British army spokesperson said: \u201cWe can confirm that there was a road traffic incident involving a Challenger 2 tank and a car driven by a German national. The Royal Military police are working alongside the German civil police to investigate the incident.\u201dEarlier this year, another British military vehicle from the Paderborn garrison ploughed through the fence of an elderly couple. The military said that a mechanical fault had led to the armoured Warrior vehicle veering off the road.A British military spokesperson was quoted in The Local website denying that tank drivers needed to have their training re-assessed.\u201cOur tank crews go through a very rigorous training process,\u201d he said, reportedly adding that three members of personnel inside monitor the road \u201cwhich is why they were able to stop soon enough\u201d.", "tags": ["Military", "Germany", "Europe", "UK news"], "title": "British battle tank crushes woman's car in Germany"},{"date": "2015-05-22T12:30:03Z", "country": "germany", "content": "German strikes once seemed like German jokes: a contradiction in terms. But no more: this year, Europe\u2019s largest economy is on course to set a new record for industrial action, with everyone from train drivers, kindergarten and nursery teachers and post office workers staging walkouts recently. The strike wave is more than a conjunctural blip: it is another facet of the inexorable disintegration of what used to be the \u201cGerman model\u201d.Good economic conditions play a part, but unions in the thriving export industries are not the ones that are striking these days. Strikes cluster in domestic services, especially the public sector, and indications are that they are here to stay.In the old days, the powerful unions of the metalworkers set the pace for wage increases throughout the economy. But the last time IG Metall went on a nationwide strike was in 1984. In the 1990s, its members, in particular those in the large car factories, learned the hard way that manufacturing jobs could more easily than ever be moved abroad, to China or the formerly communist eastern Europe.International competition is now no longer just about market share, but also employment. It did not take long for the union leadership to notice this. Fear of unemployment, incidentally, accounts also for German manufacturing workers\u2019 unwillingness to contribute to macroeconomic balance under European monetary union by pushing for higher wages in order to bring down the German export surplus.Today, the action has shifted to services, where job export is more difficult. But other factors also account for the rise of industrial disorder. Since unification, public employers, in pursuit of fiscal consolidation, have broken up Germany\u2019s peculiar public sector collective bargaining regime, which covered everyone from refuse collectors to professors and generated, essentially, the same yearly wage increases for all. Moreover, several occupations \u2013 including train drivers, teachers and postal workers \u2013 lost the uniquely German employment status of Beamter, of civil servants without a right to strike but with lifelong tenure and guaranteed pay raises in line with the rate of economic growth.Furthermore, progressive privatisation of public services, combined with unemployment and the de-unionisation that came with it, increasingly placed public sector wages under competition, leading to hitherto unknown problems for trade unions, caused by what was rapidly becoming a two-tier wage system.Skyrocketing managerial pay is out of joint with the experience of the vast majority of householdsAnother development that contributed to industrial conflict was the rise of new occupations, especially in childcare and care for the elderly. Government rhetoric on the indispensability and moral virtue of their work notwithstanding, they tend to be poorly paid and their employment is often precarious. Care workers have to seek their place in a wage structure that is profoundly in flux. Unless they organise \u2013 for which they can turn to Verdi, the vast public and private service sector union \u2013 they may have to make do with the warm words of politicians who, hard-pressed to balance their budgets, will not necessarily follow up with pay and employment conditions in line with the skills required for quality service in the new occupations.Add to this the fact that technological progress offers employers opportunities to put pressure on previously privileged occupations, such as airline pilots, air traffic controllers and train drivers. Typically, they are asked to accept lower pay, inferior working conditions and less secure employment on the grounds that their jobs are being deskilled by advancements in information-processing technology. In the longer run, they may even be made redundant altogether \u2013 a prospect that paradoxically contributes to wage militancy as severance pay and unemployment benefit are calculated on a worker\u2019s final wage.All of this results in a broad erosion of formal and informal wage norms that for several decades kept the peace in German capitalism. Rising wage differentials and a changing occupational structure cause potentially explosive disagreements on relativities. Where there used to be equal increases for everyone, following the settlement in the metal industry, there is stagnation in exposed sectors and declining wages in large segments of the service sector.Another part of the picture is enormous, Anglo-American-style increases in top management salaries, especially, but by no means exclusively, in finance. This in a country where income differentials between workers and management used to be low. Skyrocketing managerial pay is out of joint with the experience of the vast majority of households, who suffer not only from stagnant or declining wages and deteriorating employment conditions, but also from cuts in public services and benefits. This makes appeals to workers for wage restraint for the benefit of the public and the economy sound hypocritical to many. Related: As cracks in its economy widen, is Germany\u2019s miracle about to fade? The German wage-setting system is approaching a condition of normlessness, similar to what Britain experienced in the 1970s. Then, the Oxford sociologist John Goldthorpe diagnosed a state of industrial anomie: a fundamental absence of consensus on legitimate principles of distribution between capital and labour, as well as between groups of workers.The German government, with its social-democratic labour minister, is trying to suppress surging industrial conflict by curtailing the right to organise and strike by making strikes of sectional trade unions \u2013 like the train drivers \u2013 illegal. But this will fail, very likely in the constitutional court and certainly in practice, in a world in which the structure of firms and sectors is no longer supportive of industrial unionism and its doctrine of \u201cone workplace, one union\u201d, and where train drivers, pilots and others will feel entitled to defend themselves if necessary by going on strike, whatever the law may say.", "tags": ["Germany", "Unions", "Rail transport", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "The strikes sweeping Germany are here to stay | Wolfgang Streeck"},{"date": "2015-05-11T18:44:34Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The late news from the make-or-break talks in Brussels was no news at all, really. There were a few encouraging words for the progress Greece is making on its reform plans. Athens also ordered a \u20ac750m (\u00a3535m) repayment to the International Monetary Fund. But an agreement on releasing \u20ac7.2bn of bailout funds? No.There was, though, one intriguing subplot. Germany, in the form of finance minister Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble, suddenly seems taken by the idea of Greece holding a referendum.\u201cIf the Greek government thinks it should have a referendum, then it should organise a referendum,\u201d said Sch\u00e4uble. \u201cMaybe this would be the right measure to let the Greek people decide if it is ready to accept what is necessary or if they want to have the other thing.\u201d By the other thing, he means an exit from the euro.In one sense, Berlin and Brussels\u2019 sudden conversion to a plebiscite is surprising. When a former Greek prime minister, George Papandreou, suggested holding a referendum in 2011 he was summoned to Brussels and told to drop the idea sharpish. Asking the people to decide was deemed far too dangerous.So what\u2019s Sch\u00e4uble\u2019s game? Depressingly for Athens, the moral seems clear: a referendum no longer carries the same fear for Germany. Berlin thinks it holds a winning hand whatever happens.If Greeks voted to stay in the euro, Berlin could claim democratic legitimacy for a tough reform programme encompassing pensions, tax, wages and privatisations. If Greece said no, then at least there would be resolution. Germany is perhaps being optimistic in believing the market fallout from Grexit would be minimal, but that is what its leading politicians believe. They are happy to take their chances.Sch\u00e4uble\u2019s lack of concern about a referendum also sends another message to Athens as the talks enter the final round: he is telling Alexis Tsipras, the current Greek prime minister, that he is desperately short of time and running out of options.Greece needs \u20ac7.2bn to be released from the last bailout and then requires agreement on a fresh funding programme; and it needs it all to happen by the end of next month. In the delay caused by calling a vote, there could be a run on Greek banks, which might bring Grexit closer anyway.It is ridiculous that three months of talks have been characterised by brinkmanship on both sides. With Greek\u2019s debt-to-GDP ratio now at 180%, it is also absurd that nobody, apart from the IMF, is talking about the possibility of debt relief.But the cold reality is that brinkmanship always favoured the creditors. Tsipras and his Syriza government now have only a few weeks to agree a deal. There are no guarantees, but it is still odds-on that Greece will capitulate.Moya Greene has got her orchard back. The chief executive of Royal Mail has complained bitterly for the past year about the \u201ccherry-picking\u201d activities of Whistl in the door-to-door delivery market. Now Whistl, the odd name for the former TNT in the UK, has decided the door-to-door game isn\u2019t worth playing anyway.Strictly speaking, Whistl is merely \u201creviewing\u201d its future in the so-called end-to-end market. But since it has suspended operations during the review, a pull-out looks inevitable. It can stick to the safer strategy of pre-sorting letters and using Royal Mail\u2019s network for delivery to the door.Whistl\u2019s original plans envisaged serving 42% of UK postal address, which, Greene grumbled, equated to only 8% of the land mass. Her point was that Royal Mail, under its universal service obligation, is not allowed to focus solely on densely populated areas such as London and Manchester but must also labour up hill and down dale.Regulators at Ofcom never seem impressed by her complaints. So a Whistl withdrawal would be a double boost. It was unexpected until a couple of weeks ago and it will deter other operators from trying their luck in the end-to-end market. No wonder Royal Mail\u2019s share price has risen 10% since Whistl\u2019s difficulties in securing investment to fund growth became apparent.Royal Mail has bigger headaches, it should be said. The letters market is still in decline and the parcels market looks over-supplied. But a large competitor\u2019s exit from household deliveries is a reminder of how hard an incumbent can be to shift.Welcome to the job of business secretary, Sajid Javid. Your first task, as big business sees life, is to ensure that a new runway is ordered in the south-east. And, if the Airports Commission says Heathrow is the best place, the business lobby wants you to do your duty.One slice of the Conservative party is secretly praying that the commission opts for Gatwick in the summer. It seems unlikely. If it\u2019s Heathrow, Javid will be expected to go to war with recalcitrant cabinet colleagues. It\u2019s that simple. Aside from the EU referendum, the boardrooms of big companies are obsessed with Heathrow. ", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Business", "Royal Mail", "Germany", "Greece", "Euro", "Europe", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Financial sector", "European Central Bank", "Currencies", "Economics", "Financial crisis", "European banks", "Banking", "World news", "Politics", "UK news", "Postal service"], "title": "Sch\u00e4uble's subplot \u2013 a Grexit, it seems, no longer worries Germany"},{"date": "2015-08-10T05:30:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "By Josie Le Blond, freelance journalist based in Berlin Leipzig is Germany\u2019s boom-town. Last year, the city\u2019s population went up by 12,000, a rise of 2% taking the number of residents over 550,000 for the first time since reunification. Many were newcomers arriving with dreams of a near-empty, artistic paradise, buzzing with a do-it-yourself entrepreneurial spirit. A place where almost anything is possible.There\u2019s plenty of room to do it. In the old western industrial quarter of Plagwitz, for example, rows of empty factories wait to be transformed into studios and exhibition spaces along the lines of the sprawling Baumwollspinnerei gallery complex, which this summer celebrates its 10th birthday. Western Leipzig\u2019s latest industrial metamorphosis is the Kunstkraftwerk. Once a crumbling, unsafe ruin, the former power station has been revamped into a mighty installation space now attracting experimental artists from all over the globe.But with all the recent buzz \u2013 referred to sardonically by locals as \u201chypezig\u201d \u2013 some areas are struggling to keep up with the pace of change. Plagwitz, long plugged as the beating heart of the city\u2019s underground art scene, is said to be losing some of its edge. \u201cPlagwitz has been the in area for years, but things have already moved on,\u201d says art project manager Angela Straube-Bornberg. She says those disillusioned with Plagwitz now look to the city\u2019s wilder, undeveloped eastern district. \u201cThe students all live there now. There are galleries and wild parties and projects everywhere.\u201dBehind the boarded-up shop fronts and pop-up galleries, clubs and cafes are perpetually opening up, and being shut down, sometimes within a matter of weeks.\u201cThere are a lot of empty buildings around here and rents are still cheap,\u201d says Noriko Minkus, co-founder of the Japanisches Haus, a \u201cpost-growth\u201d, not-for-profit community project on Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe, the district\u2019s core street. \u201cAll the young people starting projects makes it a really interesting area. But that means it will soon be under threat from gentrification, too.\u201dAlongside art exhibitions, concerts and readings, Minkus and her friends organise children\u2019s workshops and communal meals aimed at \u201cbottom-up international exchange\u201d \u2013 bringing the local students closer to the area\u2019s relatively large immigrant population.Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe is not everyone\u2019s idea of the perfect playground. The street is infamous in Germany as a crime hotspot, disturbing Leipzig\u2019s otherwise friendly, peaceful backwater vibe. But it\u2019s far from being dangerous compared with many global cities. If you visit the Japanisches Haus on a Saturday evening, you can join its VoK\u00fc or \u201cpeople\u2019s kitchen\u201d and, in exchange for a donation, share an informal, home-cooked meal with locals.By Stefan Kache, owner of Distillery, Leipzig\u2019s long-established techno clubTechno\u2019s still a big part of Leipzig\u2019s music scene. There are four main techno clubs here, including Distillery. The newest is the Institute f\u00fcr Zukunft, which opened about a year ago. Then in Plagwitz, there are Elipamanoke and the Damenhandschuhfabrik.The east has smaller spots like Ost Apotheke \u2013 a squat-cum-hostel with a club built in. Many clubs in the area don\u2019t even have a rental contract. People just help themselves to the empty buildings and get on with it. It\u2019s harder than it used to be for these places popping up, though. In the early 1990s we ran Distillery illegally for two and a half years in a factory we just took over. They\u2019d never last that long now. If you want live music, head to Plagwitz\u2019s Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe and look for the pubs, which often have bands playing. Westwerk, a gig venue in an old factory building, is a good place to try. Or down in Connewitz, there\u2019s Die Nato and Conne Island - both are cultural centres hosting gigs and other events.Leipzig has a certain buzz about it right now because of the really lively scene. The hype means the scene is growing more international. At Distillery, we still have our regulars, but we also hear a lot of different languages being spoken now. Leipzig\u2019s a much better place to live than it was. The city has a certain kind of magic about it which is hard to describe. It comes when you really live here and experience it for yourself.\u201dBy Diana Wernicke, events manager at The Market, a new monthly street food, vintage and design market held at T\u00e4ubchenthal, a converted factory in PlagwitzIt\u2019s best to jump on a bike and get out of the city centre, which is dominated by chain restaurants \u2013 there\u2019s no good reason to eat factory-made food when there\u2019s some little place just opened in Plagwitz making the same thing from scratch. One brand new place is Kaiserbad (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 93), a beer garden and restaurant serving traditional meals such as schnitzel, along with salads and burgers. It opened in mid-July in a fantastic location at the former Westwerk factory complex. Another new Plagwitz hotspot is Chumumi (Zschochersche Stra\u00dfe 50a) - a little Vietnamese place with great food and lovely decor. Choose from traditional Vietnamese soups (pho) or a wide variety of meat and fish dishes flavoured with peanuts, soy, Thai basil and ginger. It also has an extraordinary drinks menu \u2013 try the chrysanthemum and green sencha leaf tea with roasted soya beans.If you\u2019re vegan or vegetarian like me, you\u2019ve come to the right place. Leipzig was recently named Germany\u2019s most vegan-friendly city. Zest (Bornaische Stra\u00dfe 54) in the southern district of Connewitz is one of the city\u2019s oldest veggie/vegan restaurants and is well-known for its wines too. Choose from dishes such as shiitake seitan with polenta fries and lemon mirin mayonnaise or chanterelle mushroom and lovage ravioli with hazelnut tarator and cognac shallots.Or try the vegetarian Moroccan dishes at Salon Casablanca (no website) (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 47). Alongside tagines, it has exotic twists on European favourites such as spaghetti with Arabic tomato, courgette and pepper sauce served with sheep\u2019s cheese. If you\u2019re craving sugar afterwards, Caf\u00e9 Albert just along the street (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 74), makes fresh homemade cakes \u2013 on Thursdays they\u2019re vegan. This is one of many places here where local people have put their hearts and souls into making it work.Leipzig\u2019s a relaxed place and there\u2019s loads of space for creativity \u2013 things happen here which would be unthinkable elsewhere. Everyone\u2019s organising their own cultural events, little festivals, just doing it for themselves and for other locals. With The Market, we wanted to bring all those kinds of people together in one place so they could exchange ideas. We also wanted to broaden Leipzigers\u2019 culinary horizons. The stands are all run by the chefs themselves so they can talk directly to their customers about what they\u2019re eating. Like everywhere nowadays, the trend is towards locally and sustainably sourced ingredients. One of our stands sells pizza made from products grown at Annalinde, an urban gardening project here in Plagwitz.Street food markets, inspired by the ones in London, are taking the whole of Germany by storm right now, not just Leipzig. It started last year in Berlin and this summer has reached Munich and Hamburg. Now they\u2019re springing up all over the place. We wanted ours to be more like an event that people would hang around at after they\u2019d eaten. As well as art and design stalls, we\u2019ve got street artists, fire shows, DJs and bands in the evening. We\u2019re hoping people realise it\u2019s not all about shopping. They can relax and soak up the laid-back Leipzig atmosphere.By Candace Goodrich, a New Yorker who is art director at the Kunstkraftwerk in Plagwitz, a former heating plant transformed into an exhibition spaceHead east if you\u2019re looking for underground culture. They\u2019re doing some amazing things around Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe. They aren\u2019t established galleries, but I\u2019d say just go and discover, especially in the evening. There\u2019s interesting nightlife going on there too. Try this colour-coded map, which will give you an idea of various art projects in the east.In Plagwitz, visitors should go to the D21 gallery. It\u2019s part of the Lindenow artists\u2019 network, which recently helped kick the far-right NPD party out of its headquarters here. Then down on Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe, above a junk shop, you\u2019ll find Delikatessenhaus, a gallery showcasing the work of young graphic artists.For visitors to the city in October, there\u2019s the Designers\u2019 Open, a design fair with satellites throughout the city. But there aren\u2019t many designer boutiques in Leipzig \u2013 shopping\u2019s not really part of the lifestyle. At the weekend everyone\u2019s out in the park. That\u2019s confusing for tourists, though, wandering into neighbourhoods and seeing empty stores. It can be eerie walking down the street and finding no one\u2019s around. When I first moved here, I thought it was like being in a film the whole time. But space means if you want to start something, there\u2019s nothing stopping you. In other cities, New York say, it\u2019s expensive, highly competitive and the turnover rate is high, artists have to make their mark quickly. Here, someone just buys an old factory, renovates it and starts planning their exhibition programme.At Kunstkraftwerk, I\u2019m looking to inject some multiculturalism, which is still missing in the arts here. Despite all the hype, Leipzig\u2019s still a very German city, with a strong classical tradition. But our factory space here dominates the scene. Against that, only new, bold art forms really work. Over the next year, we\u2019ll be hosting installations, video, photography and large-scale sculpture by artists from all over the world. Related: Germany: Is Leipzig the new Berlin? There\u2019s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations \u2013 from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to share their favourite experiences and Instagram pictures of Leipzig. These are just a few, with more here:Angela Merkel\u2019s old student clubThere are lots of good restaurants and bars on Barfussg\u00e4sschen right by the Marktplatz. And nearby is the historic beer cellar Auerbachskeller. If you\u2019re feeling like going out and celebrating with local people, there are lots of places you can go. How about a beach party with fresh cocktails at the La Playa beach bar? Or dancing alongside Leipzig\u2019s beautiful people at Club L1? If you are into alternative or indie sounds, the right place to be would be surely Elsterartig, which has free admission. Visitors should also check out the cultural centre and former student club Moritzbastei, set up within historic vaults that were originally part of the old fortifications of Leipzig. When she was a student at Karl Marx university, chancellor Angela Merkel was among those who helped restore the structure to create a club for students.Andy SchulzeDo the Lokomotive stadiumThe Bruno-Plache-Stadion (nicknamed \u201cdas Bruno\u201d), in Probstheida, the home of the FC Lokomotive Leipzig football club, is a must-see for any football fan with its 93-year-old stand (kept almost as it was when it opened). The club was a European Cup Winner\u2019s Cup finalist in 1987, losing 0-1 to Ajax, and is well known for its UEFA Cup matches with the likes of Tottenham Hotspur, Wolverhampton Wanderers and Ipswich Town. The beer and bratwurst, fair prices and fair play will appeal to traditional football fans.Uwe Emmrich-Kie\u00dflingPuppet theatreWestfl\u00fcgel Lindenfels is located in the very arty west of the city at H\u00e4hnelstrasse 27, in Plagwitz. Neo Rauch\u2019s studio is just five minutes away and numerous galleries and cafes are dotted all over the area. The building houses Leipzig\u2019s foremost puppetry theatre with plays being put on nearly every week by Westfl\u00fcgel\u2019s own players or international ensembles. The building itself is full of character \u2013 it opened as a ballroom in 1900, and became a factory for decades thereafter and only narrowly escaped total desolation by being lovingly resurrected in the last 10 years. It is still inhabited by the character of lost places while coming to life on performance nights and every Friday as a cheap and cheerful bar with free concerts, impro theatre and great people. bluemelhTake a Trabant tourWe did a trip around Leipzig in a Trabant, the car that\u2019s such a symbol of the former East Germany, and with it you can do a fantastic city tour \u2013 much cooler than with a touristic bus. Leipzig is a great city and we had a nice time touring through with \u201cour\u201d Trabi.Dick SchiferliThrough the forest to the lakeThe Riverside Forest almost splits Leipzig in two, meaning that you can get from one end of the city to the other without using roads. Register with the public bike hire company Nextbike, get a map and plan a good hour to cycle through the woods to the lake Cospudener See, to the south of the city. The lake is good for swimming and has a cool harbour with restaurants. The cycle around the lake takes around 20 mins. If you are daring enough to get your kit off, there is the beautiful Sauna im See on the lake next to the harbour.Veraplums", "tags": ["Leipzig holidays", "Germany holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "City breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Art and design", "Culture"], "title": "The alternative city guide to Leipzig, Germany"},{"date": "2015-08-10T05:30:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "By Josie Le Blond, freelance journalist based in Berlin Leipzig is Germany\u2019s boom-town. Last year, the city\u2019s population went up by 12,000, a rise of 2% taking the number of residents over 550,000 for the first time since reunification. Many were newcomers arriving with dreams of a near-empty, artistic paradise, buzzing with a do-it-yourself entrepreneurial spirit. A place where almost anything is possible.There\u2019s plenty of room to do it. In the old western industrial quarter of Plagwitz, for example, rows of empty factories wait to be transformed into studios and exhibition spaces along the lines of the sprawling Baumwollspinnerei gallery complex, which this summer celebrates its 10th birthday. Western Leipzig\u2019s latest industrial metamorphosis is the Kunstkraftwerk. Once a crumbling, unsafe ruin, the former power station has been revamped into a mighty installation space now attracting experimental artists from all over the globe.But with all the recent buzz \u2013 referred to sardonically by locals as \u201chypezig\u201d \u2013 some areas are struggling to keep up with the pace of change. Plagwitz, long plugged as the beating heart of the city\u2019s underground art scene, is said to be losing some of its edge. \u201cPlagwitz has been the in area for years, but things have already moved on,\u201d says art project manager Angela Straube-Bornberg. She says those disillusioned with Plagwitz now look to the city\u2019s wilder, undeveloped eastern district. \u201cThe students all live there now. There are galleries and wild parties and projects everywhere.\u201dBehind the boarded-up shop fronts and pop-up galleries, clubs and cafes are perpetually opening up, and being shut down, sometimes within a matter of weeks.\u201cThere are a lot of empty buildings around here and rents are still cheap,\u201d says Noriko Minkus, co-founder of the Japanisches Haus, a \u201cpost-growth\u201d, not-for-profit community project on Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe, the district\u2019s core street. \u201cAll the young people starting projects makes it a really interesting area. But that means it will soon be under threat from gentrification, too.\u201dAlongside art exhibitions, concerts and readings, Minkus and her friends organise children\u2019s workshops and communal meals aimed at \u201cbottom-up international exchange\u201d \u2013 bringing the local students closer to the area\u2019s relatively large immigrant population.Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe is not everyone\u2019s idea of the perfect playground. The street is infamous in Germany as a crime hotspot, disturbing Leipzig\u2019s otherwise friendly, peaceful backwater vibe. But it\u2019s far from being dangerous compared with many global cities. If you visit the Japanisches Haus on a Saturday evening, you can join its VoK\u00fc or \u201cpeople\u2019s kitchen\u201d and, in exchange for a donation, share an informal, home-cooked meal with locals.By Stefan Kache, owner of Distillery, Leipzig\u2019s long-established techno clubTechno\u2019s still a big part of Leipzig\u2019s music scene. There are four main techno clubs here, including Distillery. The newest is the Institute f\u00fcr Zukunft, which opened about a year ago. Then in Plagwitz, there are Elipamanoke and the Damenhandschuhfabrik.The east has smaller spots like Ost Apotheke \u2013 a squat-cum-hostel with a club built in. Many clubs in the area don\u2019t even have a rental contract. People just help themselves to the empty buildings and get on with it. It\u2019s harder than it used to be for these places popping up, though. In the early 1990s we ran Distillery illegally for two and a half years in a factory we just took over. They\u2019d never last that long now. If you want live music, head to Plagwitz\u2019s Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe and look for the pubs, which often have bands playing. Westwerk, a gig venue in an old factory building, is a good place to try. Or down in Connewitz, there\u2019s Die Nato and Conne Island - both are cultural centres hosting gigs and other events.Leipzig has a certain buzz about it right now because of the really lively scene. The hype means the scene is growing more international. At Distillery, we still have our regulars, but we also hear a lot of different languages being spoken now. Leipzig\u2019s a much better place to live than it was. The city has a certain kind of magic about it which is hard to describe. It comes when you really live here and experience it for yourself.\u201dBy Diana Wernicke, events manager at The Market, a new monthly street food, vintage and design market held at T\u00e4ubchenthal, a converted factory in PlagwitzIt\u2019s best to jump on a bike and get out of the city centre, which is dominated by chain restaurants \u2013 there\u2019s no good reason to eat factory-made food when there\u2019s some little place just opened in Plagwitz making the same thing from scratch. One brand new place is Kaiserbad (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 93), a beer garden and restaurant serving traditional meals such as schnitzel, along with salads and burgers. It opened in mid-July in a fantastic location at the former Westwerk factory complex. Another new Plagwitz hotspot is Chumumi (Zschochersche Stra\u00dfe 50a) - a little Vietnamese place with great food and lovely decor. Choose from traditional Vietnamese soups (pho) or a wide variety of meat and fish dishes flavoured with peanuts, soy, Thai basil and ginger. It also has an extraordinary drinks menu \u2013 try the chrysanthemum and green sencha leaf tea with roasted soya beans.If you\u2019re vegan or vegetarian like me, you\u2019ve come to the right place. Leipzig was recently named Germany\u2019s most vegan-friendly city. Zest (Bornaische Stra\u00dfe 54) in the southern district of Connewitz is one of the city\u2019s oldest veggie/vegan restaurants and is well-known for its wines too. Choose from dishes such as shiitake seitan with polenta fries and lemon mirin mayonnaise or chanterelle mushroom and lovage ravioli with hazelnut tarator and cognac shallots.Or try the vegetarian Moroccan dishes at Salon Casablanca (no website) (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 47). Alongside tagines, it has exotic twists on European favourites such as spaghetti with Arabic tomato, courgette and pepper sauce served with sheep\u2019s cheese. If you\u2019re craving sugar afterwards, Caf\u00e9 Albert just along the street (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 74), makes fresh homemade cakes \u2013 on Thursdays they\u2019re vegan. This is one of many places here where local people have put their hearts and souls into making it work.Leipzig\u2019s a relaxed place and there\u2019s loads of space for creativity \u2013 things happen here which would be unthinkable elsewhere. Everyone\u2019s organising their own cultural events, little festivals, just doing it for themselves and for other locals. With The Market, we wanted to bring all those kinds of people together in one place so they could exchange ideas. We also wanted to broaden Leipzigers\u2019 culinary horizons. The stands are all run by the chefs themselves so they can talk directly to their customers about what they\u2019re eating. Like everywhere nowadays, the trend is towards locally and sustainably sourced ingredients. One of our stands sells pizza made from products grown at Annalinde, an urban gardening project here in Plagwitz.Street food markets, inspired by the ones in London, are taking the whole of Germany by storm right now, not just Leipzig. It started last year in Berlin and this summer has reached Munich and Hamburg. Now they\u2019re springing up all over the place. We wanted ours to be more like an event that people would hang around at after they\u2019d eaten. As well as art and design stalls, we\u2019ve got street artists, fire shows, DJs and bands in the evening. We\u2019re hoping people realise it\u2019s not all about shopping. They can relax and soak up the laid-back Leipzig atmosphere.By Candace Goodrich, a New Yorker who is art director at the Kunstkraftwerk in Plagwitz, a former heating plant transformed into an exhibition spaceHead east if you\u2019re looking for underground culture. They\u2019re doing some amazing things around Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe. They aren\u2019t established galleries, but I\u2019d say just go and discover, especially in the evening. There\u2019s interesting nightlife going on there too. Try this colour-coded map, which will give you an idea of various art projects in the east.In Plagwitz, visitors should go to the D21 gallery. It\u2019s part of the Lindenow artists\u2019 network, which recently helped kick the far-right NPD party out of its headquarters here. Then down on Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe, above a junk shop, you\u2019ll find Delikatessenhaus, a gallery showcasing the work of young graphic artists.For visitors to the city in October, there\u2019s the Designers\u2019 Open, a design fair with satellites throughout the city. But there aren\u2019t many designer boutiques in Leipzig \u2013 shopping\u2019s not really part of the lifestyle. At the weekend everyone\u2019s out in the park. That\u2019s confusing for tourists, though, wandering into neighbourhoods and seeing empty stores. It can be eerie walking down the street and finding no one\u2019s around. When I first moved here, I thought it was like being in a film the whole time. But space means if you want to start something, there\u2019s nothing stopping you. In other cities, New York say, it\u2019s expensive, highly competitive and the turnover rate is high, artists have to make their mark quickly. Here, someone just buys an old factory, renovates it and starts planning their exhibition programme.At Kunstkraftwerk, I\u2019m looking to inject some multiculturalism, which is still missing in the arts here. Despite all the hype, Leipzig\u2019s still a very German city, with a strong classical tradition. But our factory space here dominates the scene. Against that, only new, bold art forms really work. Over the next year, we\u2019ll be hosting installations, video, photography and large-scale sculpture by artists from all over the world. Related: Germany: Is Leipzig the new Berlin? There\u2019s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations \u2013 from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to share their favourite experiences and Instagram pictures of Leipzig. These are just a few, with more here:Angela Merkel\u2019s old student clubThere are lots of good restaurants and bars on Barfussg\u00e4sschen right by the Marktplatz. And nearby is the historic beer cellar Auerbachskeller. If you\u2019re feeling like going out and celebrating with local people, there are lots of places you can go. How about a beach party with fresh cocktails at the La Playa beach bar? Or dancing alongside Leipzig\u2019s beautiful people at Club L1? If you are into alternative or indie sounds, the right place to be would be surely Elsterartig, which has free admission. Visitors should also check out the cultural centre and former student club Moritzbastei, set up within historic vaults that were originally part of the old fortifications of Leipzig. When she was a student at Karl Marx university, chancellor Angela Merkel was among those who helped restore the structure to create a club for students.Andy SchulzeDo the Lokomotive stadiumThe Bruno-Plache-Stadion (nicknamed \u201cdas Bruno\u201d), in Probstheida, the home of the FC Lokomotive Leipzig football club, is a must-see for any football fan with its 93-year-old stand (kept almost as it was when it opened). The club was a European Cup Winner\u2019s Cup finalist in 1987, losing 0-1 to Ajax, and is well known for its UEFA Cup matches with the likes of Tottenham Hotspur, Wolverhampton Wanderers and Ipswich Town. The beer and bratwurst, fair prices and fair play will appeal to traditional football fans.Uwe Emmrich-Kie\u00dflingPuppet theatreWestfl\u00fcgel Lindenfels is located in the very arty west of the city at H\u00e4hnelstrasse 27, in Plagwitz. Neo Rauch\u2019s studio is just five minutes away and numerous galleries and cafes are dotted all over the area. The building houses Leipzig\u2019s foremost puppetry theatre with plays being put on nearly every week by Westfl\u00fcgel\u2019s own players or international ensembles. The building itself is full of character \u2013 it opened as a ballroom in 1900, and became a factory for decades thereafter and only narrowly escaped total desolation by being lovingly resurrected in the last 10 years. It is still inhabited by the character of lost places while coming to life on performance nights and every Friday as a cheap and cheerful bar with free concerts, impro theatre and great people. bluemelhTake a Trabant tourWe did a trip around Leipzig in a Trabant, the car that\u2019s such a symbol of the former East Germany, and with it you can do a fantastic city tour \u2013 much cooler than with a touristic bus. Leipzig is a great city and we had a nice time touring through with \u201cour\u201d Trabi.Dick SchiferliThrough the forest to the lakeThe Riverside Forest almost splits Leipzig in two, meaning that you can get from one end of the city to the other without using roads. Register with the public bike hire company Nextbike, get a map and plan a good hour to cycle through the woods to the lake Cospudener See, to the south of the city. The lake is good for swimming and has a cool harbour with restaurants. The cycle around the lake takes around 20 mins. If you are daring enough to get your kit off, there is the beautiful Sauna im See on the lake next to the harbour.Veraplums", "tags": ["Leipzig holidays", "Germany holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "City breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Art and design", "Culture"], "title": "The alternative city guide to Leipzig, Germany"},{"date": "2015-07-29T11:38:47Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Facebook has been told to allow people to use pseudonyms on its site by a German regulator, which has ruled that the site\u2019s \u201creal name\u201d policy violates the right to privacy.The Hamburg data protection authority said on Tuesday that the site could not force users to give official ID such as a passport or identity card, nor could it unilaterally change their chosen names to their \u201creal\u201d names on the site.Facebook\u2019s enforcement of its policy, which limits individuals to one account each and requires that those accounts be held under their real name, frequently results in accounts with suspected pseudonyms being locked by the company until the owner can prove their name, or even just the name being changed back by Facebook.Johannes Caspar, the Hamburg commissioner for data protection and freedom of information, said: \u201cAs in many other complaints against Facebook, this case demonstrates that the network wants to enforce the so-called real names policy with no regard to national legislation.\u201dHe added that the requirement to use a real name violates the rights, enshrined in German law, to use a pseudonym, while requests for digital copies of an official photo ID also contradict the passport and ID card law. In addition, he said that \u201cthe unauthorised modification of the pseudonym \u2026 blatantly violated the right to informational self-determination and constitutes a deliberate infringement of the Data Protection Act\u201d.Facebook has repeatedly clashed with European data regulators, arguing that it should only be bound by the decisions of the Irish data protection office, since its EU headquarters are based in that nation. In June, after the Belgian privacy commission took the company to court over user tracking, a Facebook spokesperson said that the privacy commissioner should have worked with them \u201cthrough a dialogue with us at Facebook Ireland and with our regulator, the Irish data protection commissioner\u201d.Caspar pre-emptively rejected that argument: \u201cIn this case, Facebook can not retreat to the position that the Irish Data Protection Act sets the standard here. Last year the ECJ blocked that position with case-law related to Google\u2019s search engine. Facebook has economic activity in Gemany with its branch in Hamburg. So: if you like our game, you must play by our rules.\u201dIn a statement, a Facebook spokesperson said: \u201cWe\u2019re disappointed Facebook\u2019s authentic name policy is being revisited, since German courts have reviewed it on multiple occasions and regulators have determined it fully complies with applicable European data protection law. The use of authentic names on Facebook protects people\u2019s privacy and safety by ensuring people know who they\u2019re sharing and connecting with.\u201dFacebook\u2019s real name policy has long been one of the most controversial rules on the site. In February, the site was accused of discrimination after a number of Native American activists reported having their accounts suspended or names changed to match European norms. Dana Lone Hill argued that: \u201cKaty Perry\u2019s Left Shark from her Super Bowl halftime show has a Facebook page and we have to prove who we are.\u201dThe policy hit the headlines again in June after Zip, a trans former Facebook employee who was instrumental in introducing the company\u2019s custom gender feature, was required to \u201cprove\u201d her name to the company \u2013 the same name that had been on her name badge while she worked for Facebook.\u201cWe use names that don\u2019t match our ID on Facebook for safety, or because we\u2019re trans, or because we\u2019re just straight up not known by our legal names,\u201d Zip wrote. \u201cHaving chosen its policy, Facebook has to enforce it. And because its policy attempts to hammer the reality of names into a constrained model they end up having to make a trade-off in the edge cases. Some people are not allowed to use their names so that everyone else\u2019s can be enforced.\u201d", "tags": ["Facebook", "Technology", "Germany", "Social networking", "World news", "Media", "Europe"], "title": "Germany fights Facebook over real names policy"},{"date": "2015-08-10T05:30:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "By Josie Le Blond, freelance journalist based in Berlin Leipzig is Germany\u2019s boom-town. Last year, the city\u2019s population went up by 12,000, a rise of 2% taking the number of residents over 550,000 for the first time since reunification. Many were newcomers arriving with dreams of a near-empty, artistic paradise, buzzing with a do-it-yourself entrepreneurial spirit. A place where almost anything is possible.There\u2019s plenty of room to do it. In the old western industrial quarter of Plagwitz, for example, rows of empty factories wait to be transformed into studios and exhibition spaces along the lines of the sprawling Baumwollspinnerei gallery complex, which this summer celebrates its 10th birthday. Western Leipzig\u2019s latest industrial metamorphosis is the Kunstkraftwerk. Once a crumbling, unsafe ruin, the former power station has been revamped into a mighty installation space now attracting experimental artists from all over the globe.But with all the recent buzz \u2013 referred to sardonically by locals as \u201chypezig\u201d \u2013 some areas are struggling to keep up with the pace of change. Plagwitz, long plugged as the beating heart of the city\u2019s underground art scene, is said to be losing some of its edge. \u201cPlagwitz has been the in area for years, but things have already moved on,\u201d says art project manager Angela Straube-Bornberg. She says those disillusioned with Plagwitz now look to the city\u2019s wilder, undeveloped eastern district. \u201cThe students all live there now. There are galleries and wild parties and projects everywhere.\u201dBehind the boarded-up shop fronts and pop-up galleries, clubs and cafes are perpetually opening up, and being shut down, sometimes within a matter of weeks.\u201cThere are a lot of empty buildings around here and rents are still cheap,\u201d says Noriko Minkus, co-founder of the Japanisches Haus, a \u201cpost-growth\u201d, not-for-profit community project on Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe, the district\u2019s core street. \u201cAll the young people starting projects makes it a really interesting area. But that means it will soon be under threat from gentrification, too.\u201dAlongside art exhibitions, concerts and readings, Minkus and her friends organise children\u2019s workshops and communal meals aimed at \u201cbottom-up international exchange\u201d \u2013 bringing the local students closer to the area\u2019s relatively large immigrant population.Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe is not everyone\u2019s idea of the perfect playground. The street is infamous in Germany as a crime hotspot, disturbing Leipzig\u2019s otherwise friendly, peaceful backwater vibe. But it\u2019s far from being dangerous compared with many global cities. If you visit the Japanisches Haus on a Saturday evening, you can join its VoK\u00fc or \u201cpeople\u2019s kitchen\u201d and, in exchange for a donation, share an informal, home-cooked meal with locals.By Stefan Kache, owner of Distillery, Leipzig\u2019s long-established techno clubTechno\u2019s still a big part of Leipzig\u2019s music scene. There are four main techno clubs here, including Distillery. The newest is the Institute f\u00fcr Zukunft, which opened about a year ago. Then in Plagwitz, there are Elipamanoke and the Damenhandschuhfabrik.The east has smaller spots like Ost Apotheke \u2013 a squat-cum-hostel with a club built in. Many clubs in the area don\u2019t even have a rental contract. People just help themselves to the empty buildings and get on with it. It\u2019s harder than it used to be for these places popping up, though. In the early 1990s we ran Distillery illegally for two and a half years in a factory we just took over. They\u2019d never last that long now. If you want live music, head to Plagwitz\u2019s Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe and look for the pubs, which often have bands playing. Westwerk, a gig venue in an old factory building, is a good place to try. Or down in Connewitz, there\u2019s Die Nato and Conne Island - both are cultural centres hosting gigs and other events.Leipzig has a certain buzz about it right now because of the really lively scene. The hype means the scene is growing more international. At Distillery, we still have our regulars, but we also hear a lot of different languages being spoken now. Leipzig\u2019s a much better place to live than it was. The city has a certain kind of magic about it which is hard to describe. It comes when you really live here and experience it for yourself.\u201dBy Diana Wernicke, events manager at The Market, a new monthly street food, vintage and design market held at T\u00e4ubchenthal, a converted factory in PlagwitzIt\u2019s best to jump on a bike and get out of the city centre, which is dominated by chain restaurants \u2013 there\u2019s no good reason to eat factory-made food when there\u2019s some little place just opened in Plagwitz making the same thing from scratch. One brand new place is Kaiserbad (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 93), a beer garden and restaurant serving traditional meals such as schnitzel, along with salads and burgers. It opened in mid-July in a fantastic location at the former Westwerk factory complex. Another new Plagwitz hotspot is Chumumi (Zschochersche Stra\u00dfe 50a) - a little Vietnamese place with great food and lovely decor. Choose from traditional Vietnamese soups (pho) or a wide variety of meat and fish dishes flavoured with peanuts, soy, Thai basil and ginger. It also has an extraordinary drinks menu \u2013 try the chrysanthemum and green sencha leaf tea with roasted soya beans.If you\u2019re vegan or vegetarian like me, you\u2019ve come to the right place. Leipzig was recently named Germany\u2019s most vegan-friendly city. Zest (Bornaische Stra\u00dfe 54) in the southern district of Connewitz is one of the city\u2019s oldest veggie/vegan restaurants and is well-known for its wines too. Choose from dishes such as shiitake seitan with polenta fries and lemon mirin mayonnaise or chanterelle mushroom and lovage ravioli with hazelnut tarator and cognac shallots.Or try the vegetarian Moroccan dishes at Salon Casablanca (no website) (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 47). Alongside tagines, it has exotic twists on European favourites such as spaghetti with Arabic tomato, courgette and pepper sauce served with sheep\u2019s cheese. If you\u2019re craving sugar afterwards, Caf\u00e9 Albert just along the street (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 74), makes fresh homemade cakes \u2013 on Thursdays they\u2019re vegan. This is one of many places here where local people have put their hearts and souls into making it work.Leipzig\u2019s a relaxed place and there\u2019s loads of space for creativity \u2013 things happen here which would be unthinkable elsewhere. Everyone\u2019s organising their own cultural events, little festivals, just doing it for themselves and for other locals. With The Market, we wanted to bring all those kinds of people together in one place so they could exchange ideas. We also wanted to broaden Leipzigers\u2019 culinary horizons. The stands are all run by the chefs themselves so they can talk directly to their customers about what they\u2019re eating. Like everywhere nowadays, the trend is towards locally and sustainably sourced ingredients. One of our stands sells pizza made from products grown at Annalinde, an urban gardening project here in Plagwitz.Street food markets, inspired by the ones in London, are taking the whole of Germany by storm right now, not just Leipzig. It started last year in Berlin and this summer has reached Munich and Hamburg. Now they\u2019re springing up all over the place. We wanted ours to be more like an event that people would hang around at after they\u2019d eaten. As well as art and design stalls, we\u2019ve got street artists, fire shows, DJs and bands in the evening. We\u2019re hoping people realise it\u2019s not all about shopping. They can relax and soak up the laid-back Leipzig atmosphere.By Candace Goodrich, a New Yorker who is art director at the Kunstkraftwerk in Plagwitz, a former heating plant transformed into an exhibition spaceHead east if you\u2019re looking for underground culture. They\u2019re doing some amazing things around Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe. They aren\u2019t established galleries, but I\u2019d say just go and discover, especially in the evening. There\u2019s interesting nightlife going on there too. Try this colour-coded map, which will give you an idea of various art projects in the east.In Plagwitz, visitors should go to the D21 gallery. It\u2019s part of the Lindenow artists\u2019 network, which recently helped kick the far-right NPD party out of its headquarters here. Then down on Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe, above a junk shop, you\u2019ll find Delikatessenhaus, a gallery showcasing the work of young graphic artists.For visitors to the city in October, there\u2019s the Designers\u2019 Open, a design fair with satellites throughout the city. But there aren\u2019t many designer boutiques in Leipzig \u2013 shopping\u2019s not really part of the lifestyle. At the weekend everyone\u2019s out in the park. That\u2019s confusing for tourists, though, wandering into neighbourhoods and seeing empty stores. It can be eerie walking down the street and finding no one\u2019s around. When I first moved here, I thought it was like being in a film the whole time. But space means if you want to start something, there\u2019s nothing stopping you. In other cities, New York say, it\u2019s expensive, highly competitive and the turnover rate is high, artists have to make their mark quickly. Here, someone just buys an old factory, renovates it and starts planning their exhibition programme.At Kunstkraftwerk, I\u2019m looking to inject some multiculturalism, which is still missing in the arts here. Despite all the hype, Leipzig\u2019s still a very German city, with a strong classical tradition. But our factory space here dominates the scene. Against that, only new, bold art forms really work. Over the next year, we\u2019ll be hosting installations, video, photography and large-scale sculpture by artists from all over the world. Related: Germany: Is Leipzig the new Berlin? There\u2019s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations \u2013 from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to share their favourite experiences and Instagram pictures of Leipzig. These are just a few, with more here:Angela Merkel\u2019s old student clubThere are lots of good restaurants and bars on Barfussg\u00e4sschen right by the Marktplatz. And nearby is the historic beer cellar Auerbachskeller. If you\u2019re feeling like going out and celebrating with local people, there are lots of places you can go. How about a beach party with fresh cocktails at the La Playa beach bar? Or dancing alongside Leipzig\u2019s beautiful people at Club L1? If you are into alternative or indie sounds, the right place to be would be surely Elsterartig, which has free admission. Visitors should also check out the cultural centre and former student club Moritzbastei, set up within historic vaults that were originally part of the old fortifications of Leipzig. When she was a student at Karl Marx university, chancellor Angela Merkel was among those who helped restore the structure to create a club for students.Andy SchulzeDo the Lokomotive stadiumThe Bruno-Plache-Stadion (nicknamed \u201cdas Bruno\u201d), in Probstheida, the home of the FC Lokomotive Leipzig football club, is a must-see for any football fan with its 93-year-old stand (kept almost as it was when it opened). The club was a European Cup Winner\u2019s Cup finalist in 1987, losing 0-1 to Ajax, and is well known for its UEFA Cup matches with the likes of Tottenham Hotspur, Wolverhampton Wanderers and Ipswich Town. The beer and bratwurst, fair prices and fair play will appeal to traditional football fans.Uwe Emmrich-Kie\u00dflingPuppet theatreWestfl\u00fcgel Lindenfels is located in the very arty west of the city at H\u00e4hnelstrasse 27, in Plagwitz. Neo Rauch\u2019s studio is just five minutes away and numerous galleries and cafes are dotted all over the area. The building houses Leipzig\u2019s foremost puppetry theatre with plays being put on nearly every week by Westfl\u00fcgel\u2019s own players or international ensembles. The building itself is full of character \u2013 it opened as a ballroom in 1900, and became a factory for decades thereafter and only narrowly escaped total desolation by being lovingly resurrected in the last 10 years. It is still inhabited by the character of lost places while coming to life on performance nights and every Friday as a cheap and cheerful bar with free concerts, impro theatre and great people. bluemelhTake a Trabant tourWe did a trip around Leipzig in a Trabant, the car that\u2019s such a symbol of the former East Germany, and with it you can do a fantastic city tour \u2013 much cooler than with a touristic bus. Leipzig is a great city and we had a nice time touring through with \u201cour\u201d Trabi.Dick SchiferliThrough the forest to the lakeThe Riverside Forest almost splits Leipzig in two, meaning that you can get from one end of the city to the other without using roads. Register with the public bike hire company Nextbike, get a map and plan a good hour to cycle through the woods to the lake Cospudener See, to the south of the city. The lake is good for swimming and has a cool harbour with restaurants. The cycle around the lake takes around 20 mins. If you are daring enough to get your kit off, there is the beautiful Sauna im See on the lake next to the harbour.Veraplums", "tags": ["Leipzig holidays", "Germany holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "City breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Art and design", "Culture"], "title": "The alternative city guide to Leipzig, Germany"},{"date": "2015-07-29T11:38:47Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Facebook has been told to allow people to use pseudonyms on its site by a German regulator, which has ruled that the site\u2019s \u201creal name\u201d policy violates the right to privacy.The Hamburg data protection authority said on Tuesday that the site could not force users to give official ID such as a passport or identity card, nor could it unilaterally change their chosen names to their \u201creal\u201d names on the site.Facebook\u2019s enforcement of its policy, which limits individuals to one account each and requires that those accounts be held under their real name, frequently results in accounts with suspected pseudonyms being locked by the company until the owner can prove their name, or even just the name being changed back by Facebook.Johannes Caspar, the Hamburg commissioner for data protection and freedom of information, said: \u201cAs in many other complaints against Facebook, this case demonstrates that the network wants to enforce the so-called real names policy with no regard to national legislation.\u201dHe added that the requirement to use a real name violates the rights, enshrined in German law, to use a pseudonym, while requests for digital copies of an official photo ID also contradict the passport and ID card law. In addition, he said that \u201cthe unauthorised modification of the pseudonym \u2026 blatantly violated the right to informational self-determination and constitutes a deliberate infringement of the Data Protection Act\u201d.Facebook has repeatedly clashed with European data regulators, arguing that it should only be bound by the decisions of the Irish data protection office, since its EU headquarters are based in that nation. In June, after the Belgian privacy commission took the company to court over user tracking, a Facebook spokesperson said that the privacy commissioner should have worked with them \u201cthrough a dialogue with us at Facebook Ireland and with our regulator, the Irish data protection commissioner\u201d.Caspar pre-emptively rejected that argument: \u201cIn this case, Facebook can not retreat to the position that the Irish Data Protection Act sets the standard here. Last year the ECJ blocked that position with case-law related to Google\u2019s search engine. Facebook has economic activity in Gemany with its branch in Hamburg. So: if you like our game, you must play by our rules.\u201dIn a statement, a Facebook spokesperson said: \u201cWe\u2019re disappointed Facebook\u2019s authentic name policy is being revisited, since German courts have reviewed it on multiple occasions and regulators have determined it fully complies with applicable European data protection law. The use of authentic names on Facebook protects people\u2019s privacy and safety by ensuring people know who they\u2019re sharing and connecting with.\u201dFacebook\u2019s real name policy has long been one of the most controversial rules on the site. In February, the site was accused of discrimination after a number of Native American activists reported having their accounts suspended or names changed to match European norms. Dana Lone Hill argued that: \u201cKaty Perry\u2019s Left Shark from her Super Bowl halftime show has a Facebook page and we have to prove who we are.\u201dThe policy hit the headlines again in June after Zip, a trans former Facebook employee who was instrumental in introducing the company\u2019s custom gender feature, was required to \u201cprove\u201d her name to the company \u2013 the same name that had been on her name badge while she worked for Facebook.\u201cWe use names that don\u2019t match our ID on Facebook for safety, or because we\u2019re trans, or because we\u2019re just straight up not known by our legal names,\u201d Zip wrote. \u201cHaving chosen its policy, Facebook has to enforce it. And because its policy attempts to hammer the reality of names into a constrained model they end up having to make a trade-off in the edge cases. Some people are not allowed to use their names so that everyone else\u2019s can be enforced.\u201d", "tags": ["Facebook", "Technology", "Germany", "Social networking", "World news", "Media", "Europe"], "title": "Germany fights Facebook over real names policy"},{"date": "2015-07-22T16:55:14Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Political Berlin feels emotional right now. A high-level German politician put it this way to me recently: \u201cIt\u2019s like a whole hysteria going on here. The Berlin political world is emotional all the time. It has to stop, but I don\u2019t know how. The anger is on the left, it\u2019s on the right.\u201d The historian Jacob Soll touched on this outpouring of emotion as it relates to Greece in a column in the New York Times last week, and his conclusion is that Germans must regain their cool if they want to lead Europe.He is right, but he is skipping a step. Germans cannot regain their cool until they reduce the outrage they feel towards Greece, which they perceive as the guilty partner in their eurozone marriage. To do this, both nations must engage an impartial, outside mediator to help them mitigate the outrage they feel towards each other. In a structured, therapy-like setting, relevant policymakers from both sides would then finally be able to sit together and create a shared vision to wrest Greece from its economic depression. Related: Why is Germany so tough on Greece? Look back 25 years | Dirk Laabs Outrage-mitigation mediation works in situations where activists and corporations find themselves at loggerheads. Ideally, corporations and their critics commit to sitting together in a room and sharing their dilemmas \u2013 to actually explaining their positions in the safe space created by the mediators.The chief executive of a corporation that has flouted environmental laws might say something like: \u201cYou activists just don\u2019t get it. This pollution is not that bad. It creates X amount of jobs and it allows us to earn Y amount of profit. We can then pay Z taxes and thereby fulfil our role in society.\u201dThe activists might reply: \u201cWe won\u2019t accept that logic, because \u2013 aside from the fact that you\u2019re ruining the environment, perhaps with the tacit acceptance of regulators whom you\u2019ve bought off \u2013 your pollution is just shifting the cost of your business to society, which has to deal with all of these sick and/or dead people. But, OK, we get that your business has an economic purpose, so if you stop polluting and move to another model, we will mobilise our base and our leadership to support you.\u201dGermany can look to its own transformation away from nuclear power to renewables as an example here. This process, accelerated after Fukushima, saw anti-nuclear activists, politicians and the power industry jointly define the vision for the future state of Germany\u2019s energy supply. Since everyone has bought into the vision, activists and industry stand eagerly behind the transformation. In fact, buy-in for this green movement has become so widespread that it has become part of Germany\u2019s national identity.Seen in this light, last week\u2019s deal imposing a 77% VAT increase \u2013 from 13% to 23% \u2013 and other punitive measures on Greece are bound to fail: not only because they would seem to contradict a century of economic theory, but also because neither Germany nor Greece has bought into them. Everyone hates this deal.Germany feels it is being asked for a gift at the end of a gun, sinking money into a country that will never actually pay it back and that it does not perceive as critical for its national and economic security. Greece is outraged that more austerity will further lower its standard of living, and it is tired of being called lazy and inept by Europe\u2019s de facto hegemonic power.An impartial mediating team could help treat the emotion and lower the outrageThe finance ministers Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble and Euclid Tsakalotos must lead their staffs in committing to outrage mitigation under mediation. This is imperative because functionaries from both governments are, sadly, pushing their negative emotion out into their nations\u2019 media. And Greek and German media are in turn whipping up the kind of populist sentiment that is manifesting itself as anti-Greece protests in front of the Bundestag or Angela Merkel Hitler posters in Athens. The toxicity of the debate has reached fever pitch on both sides.An impartial mediating team \u2013 comprising \u201cmiddle power\u201d diplomats supported by a consultancy specialising in outrage mitigation \u2013 could help treat the emotion and lower the outrage. Once this is done, policymakers in Athens and Berlin will be in a position to draft a shared vision for what a successful future state looks like and how it can be achieved.Until this happens, we will see the perpetuation of a crisis in which Germans become angrier, Greeks poorer and other Europeans doubtful of the resilience of the European Union project.", "tags": ["Greece", "Germany", "Eurozone crisis", "Eurozone", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Euro", "Economics", "Europe", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Germany and Greece need a mediator | Michael Scaturro"},{"date": "2015-08-10T05:30:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "By Josie Le Blond, freelance journalist based in Berlin Leipzig is Germany\u2019s boom-town. Last year, the city\u2019s population went up by 12,000, a rise of 2% taking the number of residents over 550,000 for the first time since reunification. Many were newcomers arriving with dreams of a near-empty, artistic paradise, buzzing with a do-it-yourself entrepreneurial spirit. A place where almost anything is possible.There\u2019s plenty of room to do it. In the old western industrial quarter of Plagwitz, for example, rows of empty factories wait to be transformed into studios and exhibition spaces along the lines of the sprawling Baumwollspinnerei gallery complex, which this summer celebrates its 10th birthday. Western Leipzig\u2019s latest industrial metamorphosis is the Kunstkraftwerk. Once a crumbling, unsafe ruin, the former power station has been revamped into a mighty installation space now attracting experimental artists from all over the globe.But with all the recent buzz \u2013 referred to sardonically by locals as \u201chypezig\u201d \u2013 some areas are struggling to keep up with the pace of change. Plagwitz, long plugged as the beating heart of the city\u2019s underground art scene, is said to be losing some of its edge. \u201cPlagwitz has been the in area for years, but things have already moved on,\u201d says art project manager Angela Straube-Bornberg. She says those disillusioned with Plagwitz now look to the city\u2019s wilder, undeveloped eastern district. \u201cThe students all live there now. There are galleries and wild parties and projects everywhere.\u201dBehind the boarded-up shop fronts and pop-up galleries, clubs and cafes are perpetually opening up, and being shut down, sometimes within a matter of weeks.\u201cThere are a lot of empty buildings around here and rents are still cheap,\u201d says Noriko Minkus, co-founder of the Japanisches Haus, a \u201cpost-growth\u201d, not-for-profit community project on Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe, the district\u2019s core street. \u201cAll the young people starting projects makes it a really interesting area. But that means it will soon be under threat from gentrification, too.\u201dAlongside art exhibitions, concerts and readings, Minkus and her friends organise children\u2019s workshops and communal meals aimed at \u201cbottom-up international exchange\u201d \u2013 bringing the local students closer to the area\u2019s relatively large immigrant population.Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe is not everyone\u2019s idea of the perfect playground. The street is infamous in Germany as a crime hotspot, disturbing Leipzig\u2019s otherwise friendly, peaceful backwater vibe. But it\u2019s far from being dangerous compared with many global cities. If you visit the Japanisches Haus on a Saturday evening, you can join its VoK\u00fc or \u201cpeople\u2019s kitchen\u201d and, in exchange for a donation, share an informal, home-cooked meal with locals.By Stefan Kache, owner of Distillery, Leipzig\u2019s long-established techno clubTechno\u2019s still a big part of Leipzig\u2019s music scene. There are four main techno clubs here, including Distillery. The newest is the Institute f\u00fcr Zukunft, which opened about a year ago. Then in Plagwitz, there are Elipamanoke and the Damenhandschuhfabrik.The east has smaller spots like Ost Apotheke \u2013 a squat-cum-hostel with a club built in. Many clubs in the area don\u2019t even have a rental contract. People just help themselves to the empty buildings and get on with it. It\u2019s harder than it used to be for these places popping up, though. In the early 1990s we ran Distillery illegally for two and a half years in a factory we just took over. They\u2019d never last that long now. If you want live music, head to Plagwitz\u2019s Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe and look for the pubs, which often have bands playing. Westwerk, a gig venue in an old factory building, is a good place to try. Or down in Connewitz, there\u2019s Die Nato and Conne Island - both are cultural centres hosting gigs and other events.Leipzig has a certain buzz about it right now because of the really lively scene. The hype means the scene is growing more international. At Distillery, we still have our regulars, but we also hear a lot of different languages being spoken now. Leipzig\u2019s a much better place to live than it was. The city has a certain kind of magic about it which is hard to describe. It comes when you really live here and experience it for yourself.\u201dBy Diana Wernicke, events manager at The Market, a new monthly street food, vintage and design market held at T\u00e4ubchenthal, a converted factory in PlagwitzIt\u2019s best to jump on a bike and get out of the city centre, which is dominated by chain restaurants \u2013 there\u2019s no good reason to eat factory-made food when there\u2019s some little place just opened in Plagwitz making the same thing from scratch. One brand new place is Kaiserbad (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 93), a beer garden and restaurant serving traditional meals such as schnitzel, along with salads and burgers. It opened in mid-July in a fantastic location at the former Westwerk factory complex. Another new Plagwitz hotspot is Chumumi (Zschochersche Stra\u00dfe 50a) - a little Vietnamese place with great food and lovely decor. Choose from traditional Vietnamese soups (pho) or a wide variety of meat and fish dishes flavoured with peanuts, soy, Thai basil and ginger. It also has an extraordinary drinks menu \u2013 try the chrysanthemum and green sencha leaf tea with roasted soya beans.If you\u2019re vegan or vegetarian like me, you\u2019ve come to the right place. Leipzig was recently named Germany\u2019s most vegan-friendly city. Zest (Bornaische Stra\u00dfe 54) in the southern district of Connewitz is one of the city\u2019s oldest veggie/vegan restaurants and is well-known for its wines too. Choose from dishes such as shiitake seitan with polenta fries and lemon mirin mayonnaise or chanterelle mushroom and lovage ravioli with hazelnut tarator and cognac shallots.Or try the vegetarian Moroccan dishes at Salon Casablanca (no website) (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 47). Alongside tagines, it has exotic twists on European favourites such as spaghetti with Arabic tomato, courgette and pepper sauce served with sheep\u2019s cheese. If you\u2019re craving sugar afterwards, Caf\u00e9 Albert just along the street (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 74), makes fresh homemade cakes \u2013 on Thursdays they\u2019re vegan. This is one of many places here where local people have put their hearts and souls into making it work.Leipzig\u2019s a relaxed place and there\u2019s loads of space for creativity \u2013 things happen here which would be unthinkable elsewhere. Everyone\u2019s organising their own cultural events, little festivals, just doing it for themselves and for other locals. With The Market, we wanted to bring all those kinds of people together in one place so they could exchange ideas. We also wanted to broaden Leipzigers\u2019 culinary horizons. The stands are all run by the chefs themselves so they can talk directly to their customers about what they\u2019re eating. Like everywhere nowadays, the trend is towards locally and sustainably sourced ingredients. One of our stands sells pizza made from products grown at Annalinde, an urban gardening project here in Plagwitz.Street food markets, inspired by the ones in London, are taking the whole of Germany by storm right now, not just Leipzig. It started last year in Berlin and this summer has reached Munich and Hamburg. Now they\u2019re springing up all over the place. We wanted ours to be more like an event that people would hang around at after they\u2019d eaten. As well as art and design stalls, we\u2019ve got street artists, fire shows, DJs and bands in the evening. We\u2019re hoping people realise it\u2019s not all about shopping. They can relax and soak up the laid-back Leipzig atmosphere.By Candace Goodrich, a New Yorker who is art director at the Kunstkraftwerk in Plagwitz, a former heating plant transformed into an exhibition spaceHead east if you\u2019re looking for underground culture. They\u2019re doing some amazing things around Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe. They aren\u2019t established galleries, but I\u2019d say just go and discover, especially in the evening. There\u2019s interesting nightlife going on there too. Try this colour-coded map, which will give you an idea of various art projects in the east.In Plagwitz, visitors should go to the D21 gallery. It\u2019s part of the Lindenow artists\u2019 network, which recently helped kick the far-right NPD party out of its headquarters here. Then down on Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe, above a junk shop, you\u2019ll find Delikatessenhaus, a gallery showcasing the work of young graphic artists.For visitors to the city in October, there\u2019s the Designers\u2019 Open, a design fair with satellites throughout the city. But there aren\u2019t many designer boutiques in Leipzig \u2013 shopping\u2019s not really part of the lifestyle. At the weekend everyone\u2019s out in the park. That\u2019s confusing for tourists, though, wandering into neighbourhoods and seeing empty stores. It can be eerie walking down the street and finding no one\u2019s around. When I first moved here, I thought it was like being in a film the whole time. But space means if you want to start something, there\u2019s nothing stopping you. In other cities, New York say, it\u2019s expensive, highly competitive and the turnover rate is high, artists have to make their mark quickly. Here, someone just buys an old factory, renovates it and starts planning their exhibition programme.At Kunstkraftwerk, I\u2019m looking to inject some multiculturalism, which is still missing in the arts here. Despite all the hype, Leipzig\u2019s still a very German city, with a strong classical tradition. But our factory space here dominates the scene. Against that, only new, bold art forms really work. Over the next year, we\u2019ll be hosting installations, video, photography and large-scale sculpture by artists from all over the world. Related: Germany: Is Leipzig the new Berlin? There\u2019s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations \u2013 from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to share their favourite experiences and Instagram pictures of Leipzig. These are just a few, with more here:Angela Merkel\u2019s old student clubThere are lots of good restaurants and bars on Barfussg\u00e4sschen right by the Marktplatz. And nearby is the historic beer cellar Auerbachskeller. If you\u2019re feeling like going out and celebrating with local people, there are lots of places you can go. How about a beach party with fresh cocktails at the La Playa beach bar? Or dancing alongside Leipzig\u2019s beautiful people at Club L1? If you are into alternative or indie sounds, the right place to be would be surely Elsterartig, which has free admission. Visitors should also check out the cultural centre and former student club Moritzbastei, set up within historic vaults that were originally part of the old fortifications of Leipzig. When she was a student at Karl Marx university, chancellor Angela Merkel was among those who helped restore the structure to create a club for students.Andy SchulzeDo the Lokomotive stadiumThe Bruno-Plache-Stadion (nicknamed \u201cdas Bruno\u201d), in Probstheida, the home of the FC Lokomotive Leipzig football club, is a must-see for any football fan with its 93-year-old stand (kept almost as it was when it opened). The club was a European Cup Winner\u2019s Cup finalist in 1987, losing 0-1 to Ajax, and is well known for its UEFA Cup matches with the likes of Tottenham Hotspur, Wolverhampton Wanderers and Ipswich Town. The beer and bratwurst, fair prices and fair play will appeal to traditional football fans.Uwe Emmrich-Kie\u00dflingPuppet theatreWestfl\u00fcgel Lindenfels is located in the very arty west of the city at H\u00e4hnelstrasse 27, in Plagwitz. Neo Rauch\u2019s studio is just five minutes away and numerous galleries and cafes are dotted all over the area. The building houses Leipzig\u2019s foremost puppetry theatre with plays being put on nearly every week by Westfl\u00fcgel\u2019s own players or international ensembles. The building itself is full of character \u2013 it opened as a ballroom in 1900, and became a factory for decades thereafter and only narrowly escaped total desolation by being lovingly resurrected in the last 10 years. It is still inhabited by the character of lost places while coming to life on performance nights and every Friday as a cheap and cheerful bar with free concerts, impro theatre and great people. bluemelhTake a Trabant tourWe did a trip around Leipzig in a Trabant, the car that\u2019s such a symbol of the former East Germany, and with it you can do a fantastic city tour \u2013 much cooler than with a touristic bus. Leipzig is a great city and we had a nice time touring through with \u201cour\u201d Trabi.Dick SchiferliThrough the forest to the lakeThe Riverside Forest almost splits Leipzig in two, meaning that you can get from one end of the city to the other without using roads. Register with the public bike hire company Nextbike, get a map and plan a good hour to cycle through the woods to the lake Cospudener See, to the south of the city. The lake is good for swimming and has a cool harbour with restaurants. The cycle around the lake takes around 20 mins. If you are daring enough to get your kit off, there is the beautiful Sauna im See on the lake next to the harbour.Veraplums", "tags": ["Leipzig holidays", "Germany holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "City breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Art and design", "Culture"], "title": "The alternative city guide to Leipzig, Germany"},{"date": "2015-07-29T11:38:47Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Facebook has been told to allow people to use pseudonyms on its site by a German regulator, which has ruled that the site\u2019s \u201creal name\u201d policy violates the right to privacy.The Hamburg data protection authority said on Tuesday that the site could not force users to give official ID such as a passport or identity card, nor could it unilaterally change their chosen names to their \u201creal\u201d names on the site.Facebook\u2019s enforcement of its policy, which limits individuals to one account each and requires that those accounts be held under their real name, frequently results in accounts with suspected pseudonyms being locked by the company until the owner can prove their name, or even just the name being changed back by Facebook.Johannes Caspar, the Hamburg commissioner for data protection and freedom of information, said: \u201cAs in many other complaints against Facebook, this case demonstrates that the network wants to enforce the so-called real names policy with no regard to national legislation.\u201dHe added that the requirement to use a real name violates the rights, enshrined in German law, to use a pseudonym, while requests for digital copies of an official photo ID also contradict the passport and ID card law. In addition, he said that \u201cthe unauthorised modification of the pseudonym \u2026 blatantly violated the right to informational self-determination and constitutes a deliberate infringement of the Data Protection Act\u201d.Facebook has repeatedly clashed with European data regulators, arguing that it should only be bound by the decisions of the Irish data protection office, since its EU headquarters are based in that nation. In June, after the Belgian privacy commission took the company to court over user tracking, a Facebook spokesperson said that the privacy commissioner should have worked with them \u201cthrough a dialogue with us at Facebook Ireland and with our regulator, the Irish data protection commissioner\u201d.Caspar pre-emptively rejected that argument: \u201cIn this case, Facebook can not retreat to the position that the Irish Data Protection Act sets the standard here. Last year the ECJ blocked that position with case-law related to Google\u2019s search engine. Facebook has economic activity in Gemany with its branch in Hamburg. So: if you like our game, you must play by our rules.\u201dIn a statement, a Facebook spokesperson said: \u201cWe\u2019re disappointed Facebook\u2019s authentic name policy is being revisited, since German courts have reviewed it on multiple occasions and regulators have determined it fully complies with applicable European data protection law. The use of authentic names on Facebook protects people\u2019s privacy and safety by ensuring people know who they\u2019re sharing and connecting with.\u201dFacebook\u2019s real name policy has long been one of the most controversial rules on the site. In February, the site was accused of discrimination after a number of Native American activists reported having their accounts suspended or names changed to match European norms. Dana Lone Hill argued that: \u201cKaty Perry\u2019s Left Shark from her Super Bowl halftime show has a Facebook page and we have to prove who we are.\u201dThe policy hit the headlines again in June after Zip, a trans former Facebook employee who was instrumental in introducing the company\u2019s custom gender feature, was required to \u201cprove\u201d her name to the company \u2013 the same name that had been on her name badge while she worked for Facebook.\u201cWe use names that don\u2019t match our ID on Facebook for safety, or because we\u2019re trans, or because we\u2019re just straight up not known by our legal names,\u201d Zip wrote. \u201cHaving chosen its policy, Facebook has to enforce it. And because its policy attempts to hammer the reality of names into a constrained model they end up having to make a trade-off in the edge cases. Some people are not allowed to use their names so that everyone else\u2019s can be enforced.\u201d", "tags": ["Facebook", "Technology", "Germany", "Social networking", "World news", "Media", "Europe"], "title": "Germany fights Facebook over real names policy"},{"date": "2015-07-22T16:55:14Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Political Berlin feels emotional right now. A high-level German politician put it this way to me recently: \u201cIt\u2019s like a whole hysteria going on here. The Berlin political world is emotional all the time. It has to stop, but I don\u2019t know how. The anger is on the left, it\u2019s on the right.\u201d The historian Jacob Soll touched on this outpouring of emotion as it relates to Greece in a column in the New York Times last week, and his conclusion is that Germans must regain their cool if they want to lead Europe.He is right, but he is skipping a step. Germans cannot regain their cool until they reduce the outrage they feel towards Greece, which they perceive as the guilty partner in their eurozone marriage. To do this, both nations must engage an impartial, outside mediator to help them mitigate the outrage they feel towards each other. In a structured, therapy-like setting, relevant policymakers from both sides would then finally be able to sit together and create a shared vision to wrest Greece from its economic depression. Related: Why is Germany so tough on Greece? Look back 25 years | Dirk Laabs Outrage-mitigation mediation works in situations where activists and corporations find themselves at loggerheads. Ideally, corporations and their critics commit to sitting together in a room and sharing their dilemmas \u2013 to actually explaining their positions in the safe space created by the mediators.The chief executive of a corporation that has flouted environmental laws might say something like: \u201cYou activists just don\u2019t get it. This pollution is not that bad. It creates X amount of jobs and it allows us to earn Y amount of profit. We can then pay Z taxes and thereby fulfil our role in society.\u201dThe activists might reply: \u201cWe won\u2019t accept that logic, because \u2013 aside from the fact that you\u2019re ruining the environment, perhaps with the tacit acceptance of regulators whom you\u2019ve bought off \u2013 your pollution is just shifting the cost of your business to society, which has to deal with all of these sick and/or dead people. But, OK, we get that your business has an economic purpose, so if you stop polluting and move to another model, we will mobilise our base and our leadership to support you.\u201dGermany can look to its own transformation away from nuclear power to renewables as an example here. This process, accelerated after Fukushima, saw anti-nuclear activists, politicians and the power industry jointly define the vision for the future state of Germany\u2019s energy supply. Since everyone has bought into the vision, activists and industry stand eagerly behind the transformation. In fact, buy-in for this green movement has become so widespread that it has become part of Germany\u2019s national identity.Seen in this light, last week\u2019s deal imposing a 77% VAT increase \u2013 from 13% to 23% \u2013 and other punitive measures on Greece are bound to fail: not only because they would seem to contradict a century of economic theory, but also because neither Germany nor Greece has bought into them. Everyone hates this deal.Germany feels it is being asked for a gift at the end of a gun, sinking money into a country that will never actually pay it back and that it does not perceive as critical for its national and economic security. Greece is outraged that more austerity will further lower its standard of living, and it is tired of being called lazy and inept by Europe\u2019s de facto hegemonic power.An impartial mediating team could help treat the emotion and lower the outrageThe finance ministers Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble and Euclid Tsakalotos must lead their staffs in committing to outrage mitigation under mediation. This is imperative because functionaries from both governments are, sadly, pushing their negative emotion out into their nations\u2019 media. And Greek and German media are in turn whipping up the kind of populist sentiment that is manifesting itself as anti-Greece protests in front of the Bundestag or Angela Merkel Hitler posters in Athens. The toxicity of the debate has reached fever pitch on both sides.An impartial mediating team \u2013 comprising \u201cmiddle power\u201d diplomats supported by a consultancy specialising in outrage mitigation \u2013 could help treat the emotion and lower the outrage. Once this is done, policymakers in Athens and Berlin will be in a position to draft a shared vision for what a successful future state looks like and how it can be achieved.Until this happens, we will see the perpetuation of a crisis in which Germans become angrier, Greeks poorer and other Europeans doubtful of the resilience of the European Union project.", "tags": ["Greece", "Germany", "Eurozone crisis", "Eurozone", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Euro", "Economics", "Europe", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Germany and Greece need a mediator | Michael Scaturro"},{"date": "2015-07-01T19:08:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Matthew Evans has got his argument backwards (Bergen-Belsen was a German atrocity, Letters, 30 June). Everyone \u201cwho cares about the Holocaust and historical accuracy\u201d needs to distinguish between the Nazis and \u201cthe Germans\u201d precisely because explanations of the Holocaust must grasp its political causes, and not rely on lazy \u2013 and in fact racist \u2013 equations of nazism with Germany. Hundreds of thousands of Germans, including political opponents of nazism, victims of the so-called euthanasia programme and Jewish Germans were murdered by the Nazis, who knew very well the difference between themselves and the kind of Germans they aspired to fashion. Some of these Germans died in Bergen-Belsen. Evans insults their memory, as well as doing a massive disservice to the principles of accuracy he claims to honour.Jane CaplanEmeritus professor of modern European history, University of Oxford Related: Bergen-Belsen was a German atrocity, not just a Nazi one | Letters \u2022 We know why the Guardian and others describe atrocities in the second world war as Nazi rather than German. It is to distinguish between Germany under National Socialism and the democratic, open Germany that has so remarkably emerged from that war and then the cold war, and which has done much to face its Nazi past. The alternative may achieve narrow historical exactitude, but that is outweighed by its possible connotations of collective historical guilt, itself one of the elements in the Nazi demonising of the Jewish people. This is not \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d (in any case an imprecise, catch-all term) but responsible discourse.Canon Robert TitleyRector, Richmond team ministry, diocese of Southwark\u2022 I would agree with Matthew Evans that German nationalism was part of what made my mother a young widow in 1944. However, with the perspective of history, I would now focus on the ideology which uncaged that beast. That sort of ideology is the real enemy, and it is not exclusively German. It stalks the corridors of power in every nation, seeking out those who do not at first recognise it for what it is, or (much worse) believe foolishly that it can be controlled. From my perspective I do not see a focus on the Nazi ideology as \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d: I see it as political clarity of vision.Roger WilsonBillingshurst, West Sussex\u2022 Of the many Germans I knew before the war, several lost their lives fighting the Nazis in Germany. Would the noble lord have placed his head on the line fighting them if the fascists had taken over in Britain? In the last free elections before the Nazis seized power, the socialist/communist vote was greater than the vote for the Nazis. No wonder the Nazis came for them well before they came for the Jews, and, of course, many of those who opposed them at the risk of torture and death were also Jewish. Is Lord Evans prepared to accept responsibility for the atrocities committed by Britain in its empire, especially in India? It is a gross insult to the many thousands of Germans who opposed the Nazis actively to hold them reponsible for the concentration camps.Len GoldmanBrighton Related: Nazis, Germans and cold war propaganda | Letter from John Wilson \u2022 Having grown up in a country where historical guilt is done to excess, we Huns were most most certainly in need of Matthew Evans\u2019 wisdom \u2013 as I\u2019m sure were you Brits, given that TV here only shows a programme dealing with the Nazis every other day.Anke NeibigNewcastle upon Tyne\u2022 That the Guardian does not in the first instance call the Nazi camps \u201cGerman\u201d is not a sign of \u201cworrying political correctness\u201d. In its methods, the Holocaust relied upon those of European industrialisation and colonialism. In its ideology, it was an expression of millennia of European antisemitism. Only Nazis believed there was something specially German about their undertaking. The camps were Nazi.I was at the Jewish Museum with the German School last week and we were taught how some orthodox Jews may have separate kitchens for meat and dairy products. I thought about Ed Miliband: didn\u2019t we have a good laugh about his nose! And his ability to eat bacon! And now we find he had two kitchens! And then I got to thinking about his act of primal treachery; and about his immigrant father who hated Britain; and about his plan to stab Britain in the back (the same impulse was evident in the Dolchstosslegende in the Weimar Republic \u2013 the legend that the war was lost because of treacherous Jews). When I asked staff at the museum what they thought about the treatment of Miliband, they said they thought it was obviously antisemitic but they didn\u2019t make a fuss about it because it would just make things worse.No one seems to say much about it though. Why? Because real antisemitism is something those evil Germans did? In any case, one danger we shouldn\u2019t be overly concerned with is \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d.George HowardRichmond, Surrey\u2022 I share Matthew Evans\u2019 concern about the trend for creating an imagined community of \u201cNazis\u201d where German atrocities can safely be compartmentalised away from the troubling reality of national complicity in cruelty. In 1904, before the Nazis came to power, Germany exterminated 80% of the Herero tribe in Namibia \u2013 60,000 people \u2013 and embarked on a horrific project of human experimentation on tribal survivors that was later resumed against Europeans in second world war death camps.But Evans\u2019 letter also follows the dominant trend of referring only to Jewish victims and replaces the postwar reference to \u201cGerman crimes against humanity\u201d with the word Holocaust \u2013 sometimes Shoah. This might be an understandable emphasis if one is Jewish but it does thereby exclude the full spectrum of victims.Nazi electoral success owed a great deal to the scapegoating of a generation of black mixed-race Germans \u2013 known nationally and in Mein Kampf as Rhineland Bastards. Mein Kampf also gives them the label \u201chalf-apes\u201d. Some populist histories chose to forget they were persecuted, along with homosexuals, the disabled, Gypsies, trade unionists and leftists. Huge numbers of Poles and millions of captured Russians were also killed in camps.Dr Gavin LewisManchester", "tags": ["Second world war", "Germany", "Europe", "Adolf Hitler", "World news", "The far right", "Holocaust"], "title": "The Nazis, Germany and lazy equations | Letters"},{"date": "2015-08-10T05:30:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "By Josie Le Blond, freelance journalist based in Berlin Leipzig is Germany\u2019s boom-town. Last year, the city\u2019s population went up by 12,000, a rise of 2% taking the number of residents over 550,000 for the first time since reunification. Many were newcomers arriving with dreams of a near-empty, artistic paradise, buzzing with a do-it-yourself entrepreneurial spirit. A place where almost anything is possible.There\u2019s plenty of room to do it. In the old western industrial quarter of Plagwitz, for example, rows of empty factories wait to be transformed into studios and exhibition spaces along the lines of the sprawling Baumwollspinnerei gallery complex, which this summer celebrates its 10th birthday. Western Leipzig\u2019s latest industrial metamorphosis is the Kunstkraftwerk. Once a crumbling, unsafe ruin, the former power station has been revamped into a mighty installation space now attracting experimental artists from all over the globe.But with all the recent buzz \u2013 referred to sardonically by locals as \u201chypezig\u201d \u2013 some areas are struggling to keep up with the pace of change. Plagwitz, long plugged as the beating heart of the city\u2019s underground art scene, is said to be losing some of its edge. \u201cPlagwitz has been the in area for years, but things have already moved on,\u201d says art project manager Angela Straube-Bornberg. She says those disillusioned with Plagwitz now look to the city\u2019s wilder, undeveloped eastern district. \u201cThe students all live there now. There are galleries and wild parties and projects everywhere.\u201dBehind the boarded-up shop fronts and pop-up galleries, clubs and cafes are perpetually opening up, and being shut down, sometimes within a matter of weeks.\u201cThere are a lot of empty buildings around here and rents are still cheap,\u201d says Noriko Minkus, co-founder of the Japanisches Haus, a \u201cpost-growth\u201d, not-for-profit community project on Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe, the district\u2019s core street. \u201cAll the young people starting projects makes it a really interesting area. But that means it will soon be under threat from gentrification, too.\u201dAlongside art exhibitions, concerts and readings, Minkus and her friends organise children\u2019s workshops and communal meals aimed at \u201cbottom-up international exchange\u201d \u2013 bringing the local students closer to the area\u2019s relatively large immigrant population.Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe is not everyone\u2019s idea of the perfect playground. The street is infamous in Germany as a crime hotspot, disturbing Leipzig\u2019s otherwise friendly, peaceful backwater vibe. But it\u2019s far from being dangerous compared with many global cities. If you visit the Japanisches Haus on a Saturday evening, you can join its VoK\u00fc or \u201cpeople\u2019s kitchen\u201d and, in exchange for a donation, share an informal, home-cooked meal with locals.By Stefan Kache, owner of Distillery, Leipzig\u2019s long-established techno clubTechno\u2019s still a big part of Leipzig\u2019s music scene. There are four main techno clubs here, including Distillery. The newest is the Institute f\u00fcr Zukunft, which opened about a year ago. Then in Plagwitz, there are Elipamanoke and the Damenhandschuhfabrik.The east has smaller spots like Ost Apotheke \u2013 a squat-cum-hostel with a club built in. Many clubs in the area don\u2019t even have a rental contract. People just help themselves to the empty buildings and get on with it. It\u2019s harder than it used to be for these places popping up, though. In the early 1990s we ran Distillery illegally for two and a half years in a factory we just took over. They\u2019d never last that long now. If you want live music, head to Plagwitz\u2019s Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe and look for the pubs, which often have bands playing. Westwerk, a gig venue in an old factory building, is a good place to try. Or down in Connewitz, there\u2019s Die Nato and Conne Island - both are cultural centres hosting gigs and other events.Leipzig has a certain buzz about it right now because of the really lively scene. The hype means the scene is growing more international. At Distillery, we still have our regulars, but we also hear a lot of different languages being spoken now. Leipzig\u2019s a much better place to live than it was. The city has a certain kind of magic about it which is hard to describe. It comes when you really live here and experience it for yourself.\u201dBy Diana Wernicke, events manager at The Market, a new monthly street food, vintage and design market held at T\u00e4ubchenthal, a converted factory in PlagwitzIt\u2019s best to jump on a bike and get out of the city centre, which is dominated by chain restaurants \u2013 there\u2019s no good reason to eat factory-made food when there\u2019s some little place just opened in Plagwitz making the same thing from scratch. One brand new place is Kaiserbad (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 93), a beer garden and restaurant serving traditional meals such as schnitzel, along with salads and burgers. It opened in mid-July in a fantastic location at the former Westwerk factory complex. Another new Plagwitz hotspot is Chumumi (Zschochersche Stra\u00dfe 50a) - a little Vietnamese place with great food and lovely decor. Choose from traditional Vietnamese soups (pho) or a wide variety of meat and fish dishes flavoured with peanuts, soy, Thai basil and ginger. It also has an extraordinary drinks menu \u2013 try the chrysanthemum and green sencha leaf tea with roasted soya beans.If you\u2019re vegan or vegetarian like me, you\u2019ve come to the right place. Leipzig was recently named Germany\u2019s most vegan-friendly city. Zest (Bornaische Stra\u00dfe 54) in the southern district of Connewitz is one of the city\u2019s oldest veggie/vegan restaurants and is well-known for its wines too. Choose from dishes such as shiitake seitan with polenta fries and lemon mirin mayonnaise or chanterelle mushroom and lovage ravioli with hazelnut tarator and cognac shallots.Or try the vegetarian Moroccan dishes at Salon Casablanca (no website) (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 47). Alongside tagines, it has exotic twists on European favourites such as spaghetti with Arabic tomato, courgette and pepper sauce served with sheep\u2019s cheese. If you\u2019re craving sugar afterwards, Caf\u00e9 Albert just along the street (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 74), makes fresh homemade cakes \u2013 on Thursdays they\u2019re vegan. This is one of many places here where local people have put their hearts and souls into making it work.Leipzig\u2019s a relaxed place and there\u2019s loads of space for creativity \u2013 things happen here which would be unthinkable elsewhere. Everyone\u2019s organising their own cultural events, little festivals, just doing it for themselves and for other locals. With The Market, we wanted to bring all those kinds of people together in one place so they could exchange ideas. We also wanted to broaden Leipzigers\u2019 culinary horizons. The stands are all run by the chefs themselves so they can talk directly to their customers about what they\u2019re eating. Like everywhere nowadays, the trend is towards locally and sustainably sourced ingredients. One of our stands sells pizza made from products grown at Annalinde, an urban gardening project here in Plagwitz.Street food markets, inspired by the ones in London, are taking the whole of Germany by storm right now, not just Leipzig. It started last year in Berlin and this summer has reached Munich and Hamburg. Now they\u2019re springing up all over the place. We wanted ours to be more like an event that people would hang around at after they\u2019d eaten. As well as art and design stalls, we\u2019ve got street artists, fire shows, DJs and bands in the evening. We\u2019re hoping people realise it\u2019s not all about shopping. They can relax and soak up the laid-back Leipzig atmosphere.By Candace Goodrich, a New Yorker who is art director at the Kunstkraftwerk in Plagwitz, a former heating plant transformed into an exhibition spaceHead east if you\u2019re looking for underground culture. They\u2019re doing some amazing things around Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe. They aren\u2019t established galleries, but I\u2019d say just go and discover, especially in the evening. There\u2019s interesting nightlife going on there too. Try this colour-coded map, which will give you an idea of various art projects in the east.In Plagwitz, visitors should go to the D21 gallery. It\u2019s part of the Lindenow artists\u2019 network, which recently helped kick the far-right NPD party out of its headquarters here. Then down on Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe, above a junk shop, you\u2019ll find Delikatessenhaus, a gallery showcasing the work of young graphic artists.For visitors to the city in October, there\u2019s the Designers\u2019 Open, a design fair with satellites throughout the city. But there aren\u2019t many designer boutiques in Leipzig \u2013 shopping\u2019s not really part of the lifestyle. At the weekend everyone\u2019s out in the park. That\u2019s confusing for tourists, though, wandering into neighbourhoods and seeing empty stores. It can be eerie walking down the street and finding no one\u2019s around. When I first moved here, I thought it was like being in a film the whole time. But space means if you want to start something, there\u2019s nothing stopping you. In other cities, New York say, it\u2019s expensive, highly competitive and the turnover rate is high, artists have to make their mark quickly. Here, someone just buys an old factory, renovates it and starts planning their exhibition programme.At Kunstkraftwerk, I\u2019m looking to inject some multiculturalism, which is still missing in the arts here. Despite all the hype, Leipzig\u2019s still a very German city, with a strong classical tradition. But our factory space here dominates the scene. Against that, only new, bold art forms really work. Over the next year, we\u2019ll be hosting installations, video, photography and large-scale sculpture by artists from all over the world. Related: Germany: Is Leipzig the new Berlin? There\u2019s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations \u2013 from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to share their favourite experiences and Instagram pictures of Leipzig. These are just a few, with more here:Angela Merkel\u2019s old student clubThere are lots of good restaurants and bars on Barfussg\u00e4sschen right by the Marktplatz. And nearby is the historic beer cellar Auerbachskeller. If you\u2019re feeling like going out and celebrating with local people, there are lots of places you can go. How about a beach party with fresh cocktails at the La Playa beach bar? Or dancing alongside Leipzig\u2019s beautiful people at Club L1? If you are into alternative or indie sounds, the right place to be would be surely Elsterartig, which has free admission. Visitors should also check out the cultural centre and former student club Moritzbastei, set up within historic vaults that were originally part of the old fortifications of Leipzig. When she was a student at Karl Marx university, chancellor Angela Merkel was among those who helped restore the structure to create a club for students.Andy SchulzeDo the Lokomotive stadiumThe Bruno-Plache-Stadion (nicknamed \u201cdas Bruno\u201d), in Probstheida, the home of the FC Lokomotive Leipzig football club, is a must-see for any football fan with its 93-year-old stand (kept almost as it was when it opened). The club was a European Cup Winner\u2019s Cup finalist in 1987, losing 0-1 to Ajax, and is well known for its UEFA Cup matches with the likes of Tottenham Hotspur, Wolverhampton Wanderers and Ipswich Town. The beer and bratwurst, fair prices and fair play will appeal to traditional football fans.Uwe Emmrich-Kie\u00dflingPuppet theatreWestfl\u00fcgel Lindenfels is located in the very arty west of the city at H\u00e4hnelstrasse 27, in Plagwitz. Neo Rauch\u2019s studio is just five minutes away and numerous galleries and cafes are dotted all over the area. The building houses Leipzig\u2019s foremost puppetry theatre with plays being put on nearly every week by Westfl\u00fcgel\u2019s own players or international ensembles. The building itself is full of character \u2013 it opened as a ballroom in 1900, and became a factory for decades thereafter and only narrowly escaped total desolation by being lovingly resurrected in the last 10 years. It is still inhabited by the character of lost places while coming to life on performance nights and every Friday as a cheap and cheerful bar with free concerts, impro theatre and great people. bluemelhTake a Trabant tourWe did a trip around Leipzig in a Trabant, the car that\u2019s such a symbol of the former East Germany, and with it you can do a fantastic city tour \u2013 much cooler than with a touristic bus. Leipzig is a great city and we had a nice time touring through with \u201cour\u201d Trabi.Dick SchiferliThrough the forest to the lakeThe Riverside Forest almost splits Leipzig in two, meaning that you can get from one end of the city to the other without using roads. Register with the public bike hire company Nextbike, get a map and plan a good hour to cycle through the woods to the lake Cospudener See, to the south of the city. The lake is good for swimming and has a cool harbour with restaurants. The cycle around the lake takes around 20 mins. If you are daring enough to get your kit off, there is the beautiful Sauna im See on the lake next to the harbour.Veraplums", "tags": ["Leipzig holidays", "Germany holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "City breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Art and design", "Culture"], "title": "The alternative city guide to Leipzig, Germany"},{"date": "2015-07-29T11:38:47Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Facebook has been told to allow people to use pseudonyms on its site by a German regulator, which has ruled that the site\u2019s \u201creal name\u201d policy violates the right to privacy.The Hamburg data protection authority said on Tuesday that the site could not force users to give official ID such as a passport or identity card, nor could it unilaterally change their chosen names to their \u201creal\u201d names on the site.Facebook\u2019s enforcement of its policy, which limits individuals to one account each and requires that those accounts be held under their real name, frequently results in accounts with suspected pseudonyms being locked by the company until the owner can prove their name, or even just the name being changed back by Facebook.Johannes Caspar, the Hamburg commissioner for data protection and freedom of information, said: \u201cAs in many other complaints against Facebook, this case demonstrates that the network wants to enforce the so-called real names policy with no regard to national legislation.\u201dHe added that the requirement to use a real name violates the rights, enshrined in German law, to use a pseudonym, while requests for digital copies of an official photo ID also contradict the passport and ID card law. In addition, he said that \u201cthe unauthorised modification of the pseudonym \u2026 blatantly violated the right to informational self-determination and constitutes a deliberate infringement of the Data Protection Act\u201d.Facebook has repeatedly clashed with European data regulators, arguing that it should only be bound by the decisions of the Irish data protection office, since its EU headquarters are based in that nation. In June, after the Belgian privacy commission took the company to court over user tracking, a Facebook spokesperson said that the privacy commissioner should have worked with them \u201cthrough a dialogue with us at Facebook Ireland and with our regulator, the Irish data protection commissioner\u201d.Caspar pre-emptively rejected that argument: \u201cIn this case, Facebook can not retreat to the position that the Irish Data Protection Act sets the standard here. Last year the ECJ blocked that position with case-law related to Google\u2019s search engine. Facebook has economic activity in Gemany with its branch in Hamburg. So: if you like our game, you must play by our rules.\u201dIn a statement, a Facebook spokesperson said: \u201cWe\u2019re disappointed Facebook\u2019s authentic name policy is being revisited, since German courts have reviewed it on multiple occasions and regulators have determined it fully complies with applicable European data protection law. The use of authentic names on Facebook protects people\u2019s privacy and safety by ensuring people know who they\u2019re sharing and connecting with.\u201dFacebook\u2019s real name policy has long been one of the most controversial rules on the site. In February, the site was accused of discrimination after a number of Native American activists reported having their accounts suspended or names changed to match European norms. Dana Lone Hill argued that: \u201cKaty Perry\u2019s Left Shark from her Super Bowl halftime show has a Facebook page and we have to prove who we are.\u201dThe policy hit the headlines again in June after Zip, a trans former Facebook employee who was instrumental in introducing the company\u2019s custom gender feature, was required to \u201cprove\u201d her name to the company \u2013 the same name that had been on her name badge while she worked for Facebook.\u201cWe use names that don\u2019t match our ID on Facebook for safety, or because we\u2019re trans, or because we\u2019re just straight up not known by our legal names,\u201d Zip wrote. \u201cHaving chosen its policy, Facebook has to enforce it. And because its policy attempts to hammer the reality of names into a constrained model they end up having to make a trade-off in the edge cases. Some people are not allowed to use their names so that everyone else\u2019s can be enforced.\u201d", "tags": ["Facebook", "Technology", "Germany", "Social networking", "World news", "Media", "Europe"], "title": "Germany fights Facebook over real names policy"},{"date": "2015-07-22T16:55:14Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Political Berlin feels emotional right now. A high-level German politician put it this way to me recently: \u201cIt\u2019s like a whole hysteria going on here. The Berlin political world is emotional all the time. It has to stop, but I don\u2019t know how. The anger is on the left, it\u2019s on the right.\u201d The historian Jacob Soll touched on this outpouring of emotion as it relates to Greece in a column in the New York Times last week, and his conclusion is that Germans must regain their cool if they want to lead Europe.He is right, but he is skipping a step. Germans cannot regain their cool until they reduce the outrage they feel towards Greece, which they perceive as the guilty partner in their eurozone marriage. To do this, both nations must engage an impartial, outside mediator to help them mitigate the outrage they feel towards each other. In a structured, therapy-like setting, relevant policymakers from both sides would then finally be able to sit together and create a shared vision to wrest Greece from its economic depression. Related: Why is Germany so tough on Greece? Look back 25 years | Dirk Laabs Outrage-mitigation mediation works in situations where activists and corporations find themselves at loggerheads. Ideally, corporations and their critics commit to sitting together in a room and sharing their dilemmas \u2013 to actually explaining their positions in the safe space created by the mediators.The chief executive of a corporation that has flouted environmental laws might say something like: \u201cYou activists just don\u2019t get it. This pollution is not that bad. It creates X amount of jobs and it allows us to earn Y amount of profit. We can then pay Z taxes and thereby fulfil our role in society.\u201dThe activists might reply: \u201cWe won\u2019t accept that logic, because \u2013 aside from the fact that you\u2019re ruining the environment, perhaps with the tacit acceptance of regulators whom you\u2019ve bought off \u2013 your pollution is just shifting the cost of your business to society, which has to deal with all of these sick and/or dead people. But, OK, we get that your business has an economic purpose, so if you stop polluting and move to another model, we will mobilise our base and our leadership to support you.\u201dGermany can look to its own transformation away from nuclear power to renewables as an example here. This process, accelerated after Fukushima, saw anti-nuclear activists, politicians and the power industry jointly define the vision for the future state of Germany\u2019s energy supply. Since everyone has bought into the vision, activists and industry stand eagerly behind the transformation. In fact, buy-in for this green movement has become so widespread that it has become part of Germany\u2019s national identity.Seen in this light, last week\u2019s deal imposing a 77% VAT increase \u2013 from 13% to 23% \u2013 and other punitive measures on Greece are bound to fail: not only because they would seem to contradict a century of economic theory, but also because neither Germany nor Greece has bought into them. Everyone hates this deal.Germany feels it is being asked for a gift at the end of a gun, sinking money into a country that will never actually pay it back and that it does not perceive as critical for its national and economic security. Greece is outraged that more austerity will further lower its standard of living, and it is tired of being called lazy and inept by Europe\u2019s de facto hegemonic power.An impartial mediating team could help treat the emotion and lower the outrageThe finance ministers Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble and Euclid Tsakalotos must lead their staffs in committing to outrage mitigation under mediation. This is imperative because functionaries from both governments are, sadly, pushing their negative emotion out into their nations\u2019 media. And Greek and German media are in turn whipping up the kind of populist sentiment that is manifesting itself as anti-Greece protests in front of the Bundestag or Angela Merkel Hitler posters in Athens. The toxicity of the debate has reached fever pitch on both sides.An impartial mediating team \u2013 comprising \u201cmiddle power\u201d diplomats supported by a consultancy specialising in outrage mitigation \u2013 could help treat the emotion and lower the outrage. Once this is done, policymakers in Athens and Berlin will be in a position to draft a shared vision for what a successful future state looks like and how it can be achieved.Until this happens, we will see the perpetuation of a crisis in which Germans become angrier, Greeks poorer and other Europeans doubtful of the resilience of the European Union project.", "tags": ["Greece", "Germany", "Eurozone crisis", "Eurozone", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Euro", "Economics", "Europe", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Germany and Greece need a mediator | Michael Scaturro"},{"date": "2015-07-01T19:08:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Matthew Evans has got his argument backwards (Bergen-Belsen was a German atrocity, Letters, 30 June). Everyone \u201cwho cares about the Holocaust and historical accuracy\u201d needs to distinguish between the Nazis and \u201cthe Germans\u201d precisely because explanations of the Holocaust must grasp its political causes, and not rely on lazy \u2013 and in fact racist \u2013 equations of nazism with Germany. Hundreds of thousands of Germans, including political opponents of nazism, victims of the so-called euthanasia programme and Jewish Germans were murdered by the Nazis, who knew very well the difference between themselves and the kind of Germans they aspired to fashion. Some of these Germans died in Bergen-Belsen. Evans insults their memory, as well as doing a massive disservice to the principles of accuracy he claims to honour.Jane CaplanEmeritus professor of modern European history, University of Oxford Related: Bergen-Belsen was a German atrocity, not just a Nazi one | Letters \u2022 We know why the Guardian and others describe atrocities in the second world war as Nazi rather than German. It is to distinguish between Germany under National Socialism and the democratic, open Germany that has so remarkably emerged from that war and then the cold war, and which has done much to face its Nazi past. The alternative may achieve narrow historical exactitude, but that is outweighed by its possible connotations of collective historical guilt, itself one of the elements in the Nazi demonising of the Jewish people. This is not \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d (in any case an imprecise, catch-all term) but responsible discourse.Canon Robert TitleyRector, Richmond team ministry, diocese of Southwark\u2022 I would agree with Matthew Evans that German nationalism was part of what made my mother a young widow in 1944. However, with the perspective of history, I would now focus on the ideology which uncaged that beast. That sort of ideology is the real enemy, and it is not exclusively German. It stalks the corridors of power in every nation, seeking out those who do not at first recognise it for what it is, or (much worse) believe foolishly that it can be controlled. From my perspective I do not see a focus on the Nazi ideology as \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d: I see it as political clarity of vision.Roger WilsonBillingshurst, West Sussex\u2022 Of the many Germans I knew before the war, several lost their lives fighting the Nazis in Germany. Would the noble lord have placed his head on the line fighting them if the fascists had taken over in Britain? In the last free elections before the Nazis seized power, the socialist/communist vote was greater than the vote for the Nazis. No wonder the Nazis came for them well before they came for the Jews, and, of course, many of those who opposed them at the risk of torture and death were also Jewish. Is Lord Evans prepared to accept responsibility for the atrocities committed by Britain in its empire, especially in India? It is a gross insult to the many thousands of Germans who opposed the Nazis actively to hold them reponsible for the concentration camps.Len GoldmanBrighton Related: Nazis, Germans and cold war propaganda | Letter from John Wilson \u2022 Having grown up in a country where historical guilt is done to excess, we Huns were most most certainly in need of Matthew Evans\u2019 wisdom \u2013 as I\u2019m sure were you Brits, given that TV here only shows a programme dealing with the Nazis every other day.Anke NeibigNewcastle upon Tyne\u2022 That the Guardian does not in the first instance call the Nazi camps \u201cGerman\u201d is not a sign of \u201cworrying political correctness\u201d. In its methods, the Holocaust relied upon those of European industrialisation and colonialism. In its ideology, it was an expression of millennia of European antisemitism. Only Nazis believed there was something specially German about their undertaking. The camps were Nazi.I was at the Jewish Museum with the German School last week and we were taught how some orthodox Jews may have separate kitchens for meat and dairy products. I thought about Ed Miliband: didn\u2019t we have a good laugh about his nose! And his ability to eat bacon! And now we find he had two kitchens! And then I got to thinking about his act of primal treachery; and about his immigrant father who hated Britain; and about his plan to stab Britain in the back (the same impulse was evident in the Dolchstosslegende in the Weimar Republic \u2013 the legend that the war was lost because of treacherous Jews). When I asked staff at the museum what they thought about the treatment of Miliband, they said they thought it was obviously antisemitic but they didn\u2019t make a fuss about it because it would just make things worse.No one seems to say much about it though. Why? Because real antisemitism is something those evil Germans did? In any case, one danger we shouldn\u2019t be overly concerned with is \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d.George HowardRichmond, Surrey\u2022 I share Matthew Evans\u2019 concern about the trend for creating an imagined community of \u201cNazis\u201d where German atrocities can safely be compartmentalised away from the troubling reality of national complicity in cruelty. In 1904, before the Nazis came to power, Germany exterminated 80% of the Herero tribe in Namibia \u2013 60,000 people \u2013 and embarked on a horrific project of human experimentation on tribal survivors that was later resumed against Europeans in second world war death camps.But Evans\u2019 letter also follows the dominant trend of referring only to Jewish victims and replaces the postwar reference to \u201cGerman crimes against humanity\u201d with the word Holocaust \u2013 sometimes Shoah. This might be an understandable emphasis if one is Jewish but it does thereby exclude the full spectrum of victims.Nazi electoral success owed a great deal to the scapegoating of a generation of black mixed-race Germans \u2013 known nationally and in Mein Kampf as Rhineland Bastards. Mein Kampf also gives them the label \u201chalf-apes\u201d. Some populist histories chose to forget they were persecuted, along with homosexuals, the disabled, Gypsies, trade unionists and leftists. Huge numbers of Poles and millions of captured Russians were also killed in camps.Dr Gavin LewisManchester", "tags": ["Second world war", "Germany", "Europe", "Adolf Hitler", "World news", "The far right", "Holocaust"], "title": "The Nazis, Germany and lazy equations | Letters"},{"date": "2015-09-29T15:46:52Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Most refugees have already defied the odds by the time they arrive in Europe, having typically undertaken perilous journeys across land and sea. But once they have reached Germany they are not out of danger, according to mushroom experts and doctors, who warn record numbers of people are becoming ill after eating poisonous mushrooms.A leading German toxicologist has said poisonings are at an all-time high owing to the large number of newcomers foraging for mushrooms and mistaking those they find for varieties found in their homelands.Prof Siegmar Berndt, thead toxicologist of the German Mycological Society, said he had never come across so many cases. \u201cIn my 70-year lifespan there have never been so many mushroom poisonings as there have been so far this year,\u201d he told the Guardian.\u201cMost of the victims are refugees and asylum-seekers who have already arrived in Germany, mainly from Syria.\u201dIn addition to whole families who headed into the woodland close to their refugee shelters to forage for mushrooms, and took pleasure in finding something they appeared to know from their countries of origin, there were groups of men looking for alternative ways to spend their time who had fallen victim to toxic mushroom varieties.\u201cIt\u2019s largely young men who are bored. They go for a walk in the woods, pick the mushrooms and consume them after frying them,\u201d Berndt said. \u201cIt\u2019s tragic, particularly when you consider the journeys they\u2019ve already endured to get here.\u201d In the first two weeks of September alone, there have been more than 40 reported cases of poisonings, mainly linked to thedeath cap mushroom, Amanita phalloides. The fungus is responsible for 90% of all mushroom poisoning. One or two cases in a season would be the norm. But Berndt believes the real figure could be much higher. \u201cThere is no obligation for people to report cases of poisoning in Germany, so I suspect there have been lots of other cases that have gone unreported,\u201d he said. With the three-month mushroom season only about halfway gone, more cases are expected.The poisonings include 30 in Hannover and a further 10 in M\u00fcnster, including a 16-year-old boy who died after a replacement liver could not be found in time to save him. Another Syrian is in a critical condition and awaiting a suitable liver.Experts believe that the victims mistook the death caps for the bearded Amanita, which is not found in Germany but grows in the Mediterranean area. Related: Refugees welcome? How UK and Germany compare on migration In response to the high number of incidents, doctors at Hannover Medical School have formulated a poster that has been distributed to refugee shelters across Germany in eight languages.It warns against collecting and consuming the fungus, which it says has no repellant taste and the first symptoms occur only after several hours.\u201cA mushroom you regard from your homeland as a delicious edible mushroom could be deadly here, although they look similar,\u201d it states, urging anyone who has eaten one to seek hospital help, and to take any remains, or any vomit, with them, in order to help determine the cause of the poisoning.\u201cWith the mushroom season still having some way to go, if we can reach people with this message, we really have the chance to save lives,\u201d said Stefan Zorn, spokesman for the hospital.Spikes in mushroom-poisoning cases have previously been linked to the arrival of refugees. In the late 90s there were several incidents of Kosovans being poisoned, and, in the early 90s, of ethnic Germans from Russia.Often the victims are reluctant to present themselves in hospital for fear of getting into trouble for stealing.The death cap mushroom, once consumed, can quickly lead to liver and kidney malfunction owing to the amatoxin it contains. As small an amount as half a mushroom can be fatal.\u201cBut it can take up to three days for the symptoms \u2013 including vomiting and diarrhoea \u2013 to appear, by which time someone\u2019s liver might have been destroyed,\u201d said Kerstin Aretz, from Dresden, who, like Berndt, is one of more than 1,000 registered mushroom experts throughout Germany, to whom mushroom pickers can turn with queries about whether their spoils are edible or not.", "tags": ["Germany", "Fungi", "Refugees", "Biology", "Migration", "Food & drink", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany attributes spike in mushroom poisonings to foraging refugees"},{"date": "2015-08-10T05:30:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "By Josie Le Blond, freelance journalist based in Berlin Leipzig is Germany\u2019s boom-town. Last year, the city\u2019s population went up by 12,000, a rise of 2% taking the number of residents over 550,000 for the first time since reunification. Many were newcomers arriving with dreams of a near-empty, artistic paradise, buzzing with a do-it-yourself entrepreneurial spirit. A place where almost anything is possible.There\u2019s plenty of room to do it. In the old western industrial quarter of Plagwitz, for example, rows of empty factories wait to be transformed into studios and exhibition spaces along the lines of the sprawling Baumwollspinnerei gallery complex, which this summer celebrates its 10th birthday. Western Leipzig\u2019s latest industrial metamorphosis is the Kunstkraftwerk. Once a crumbling, unsafe ruin, the former power station has been revamped into a mighty installation space now attracting experimental artists from all over the globe.But with all the recent buzz \u2013 referred to sardonically by locals as \u201chypezig\u201d \u2013 some areas are struggling to keep up with the pace of change. Plagwitz, long plugged as the beating heart of the city\u2019s underground art scene, is said to be losing some of its edge. \u201cPlagwitz has been the in area for years, but things have already moved on,\u201d says art project manager Angela Straube-Bornberg. She says those disillusioned with Plagwitz now look to the city\u2019s wilder, undeveloped eastern district. \u201cThe students all live there now. There are galleries and wild parties and projects everywhere.\u201dBehind the boarded-up shop fronts and pop-up galleries, clubs and cafes are perpetually opening up, and being shut down, sometimes within a matter of weeks.\u201cThere are a lot of empty buildings around here and rents are still cheap,\u201d says Noriko Minkus, co-founder of the Japanisches Haus, a \u201cpost-growth\u201d, not-for-profit community project on Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe, the district\u2019s core street. \u201cAll the young people starting projects makes it a really interesting area. But that means it will soon be under threat from gentrification, too.\u201dAlongside art exhibitions, concerts and readings, Minkus and her friends organise children\u2019s workshops and communal meals aimed at \u201cbottom-up international exchange\u201d \u2013 bringing the local students closer to the area\u2019s relatively large immigrant population.Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe is not everyone\u2019s idea of the perfect playground. The street is infamous in Germany as a crime hotspot, disturbing Leipzig\u2019s otherwise friendly, peaceful backwater vibe. But it\u2019s far from being dangerous compared with many global cities. If you visit the Japanisches Haus on a Saturday evening, you can join its VoK\u00fc or \u201cpeople\u2019s kitchen\u201d and, in exchange for a donation, share an informal, home-cooked meal with locals.By Stefan Kache, owner of Distillery, Leipzig\u2019s long-established techno clubTechno\u2019s still a big part of Leipzig\u2019s music scene. There are four main techno clubs here, including Distillery. The newest is the Institute f\u00fcr Zukunft, which opened about a year ago. Then in Plagwitz, there are Elipamanoke and the Damenhandschuhfabrik.The east has smaller spots like Ost Apotheke \u2013 a squat-cum-hostel with a club built in. Many clubs in the area don\u2019t even have a rental contract. People just help themselves to the empty buildings and get on with it. It\u2019s harder than it used to be for these places popping up, though. In the early 1990s we ran Distillery illegally for two and a half years in a factory we just took over. They\u2019d never last that long now. If you want live music, head to Plagwitz\u2019s Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe and look for the pubs, which often have bands playing. Westwerk, a gig venue in an old factory building, is a good place to try. Or down in Connewitz, there\u2019s Die Nato and Conne Island - both are cultural centres hosting gigs and other events.Leipzig has a certain buzz about it right now because of the really lively scene. The hype means the scene is growing more international. At Distillery, we still have our regulars, but we also hear a lot of different languages being spoken now. Leipzig\u2019s a much better place to live than it was. The city has a certain kind of magic about it which is hard to describe. It comes when you really live here and experience it for yourself.\u201dBy Diana Wernicke, events manager at The Market, a new monthly street food, vintage and design market held at T\u00e4ubchenthal, a converted factory in PlagwitzIt\u2019s best to jump on a bike and get out of the city centre, which is dominated by chain restaurants \u2013 there\u2019s no good reason to eat factory-made food when there\u2019s some little place just opened in Plagwitz making the same thing from scratch. One brand new place is Kaiserbad (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 93), a beer garden and restaurant serving traditional meals such as schnitzel, along with salads and burgers. It opened in mid-July in a fantastic location at the former Westwerk factory complex. Another new Plagwitz hotspot is Chumumi (Zschochersche Stra\u00dfe 50a) - a little Vietnamese place with great food and lovely decor. Choose from traditional Vietnamese soups (pho) or a wide variety of meat and fish dishes flavoured with peanuts, soy, Thai basil and ginger. It also has an extraordinary drinks menu \u2013 try the chrysanthemum and green sencha leaf tea with roasted soya beans.If you\u2019re vegan or vegetarian like me, you\u2019ve come to the right place. Leipzig was recently named Germany\u2019s most vegan-friendly city. Zest (Bornaische Stra\u00dfe 54) in the southern district of Connewitz is one of the city\u2019s oldest veggie/vegan restaurants and is well-known for its wines too. Choose from dishes such as shiitake seitan with polenta fries and lemon mirin mayonnaise or chanterelle mushroom and lovage ravioli with hazelnut tarator and cognac shallots.Or try the vegetarian Moroccan dishes at Salon Casablanca (no website) (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 47). Alongside tagines, it has exotic twists on European favourites such as spaghetti with Arabic tomato, courgette and pepper sauce served with sheep\u2019s cheese. If you\u2019re craving sugar afterwards, Caf\u00e9 Albert just along the street (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 74), makes fresh homemade cakes \u2013 on Thursdays they\u2019re vegan. This is one of many places here where local people have put their hearts and souls into making it work.Leipzig\u2019s a relaxed place and there\u2019s loads of space for creativity \u2013 things happen here which would be unthinkable elsewhere. Everyone\u2019s organising their own cultural events, little festivals, just doing it for themselves and for other locals. With The Market, we wanted to bring all those kinds of people together in one place so they could exchange ideas. We also wanted to broaden Leipzigers\u2019 culinary horizons. The stands are all run by the chefs themselves so they can talk directly to their customers about what they\u2019re eating. Like everywhere nowadays, the trend is towards locally and sustainably sourced ingredients. One of our stands sells pizza made from products grown at Annalinde, an urban gardening project here in Plagwitz.Street food markets, inspired by the ones in London, are taking the whole of Germany by storm right now, not just Leipzig. It started last year in Berlin and this summer has reached Munich and Hamburg. Now they\u2019re springing up all over the place. We wanted ours to be more like an event that people would hang around at after they\u2019d eaten. As well as art and design stalls, we\u2019ve got street artists, fire shows, DJs and bands in the evening. We\u2019re hoping people realise it\u2019s not all about shopping. They can relax and soak up the laid-back Leipzig atmosphere.By Candace Goodrich, a New Yorker who is art director at the Kunstkraftwerk in Plagwitz, a former heating plant transformed into an exhibition spaceHead east if you\u2019re looking for underground culture. They\u2019re doing some amazing things around Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe. They aren\u2019t established galleries, but I\u2019d say just go and discover, especially in the evening. There\u2019s interesting nightlife going on there too. Try this colour-coded map, which will give you an idea of various art projects in the east.In Plagwitz, visitors should go to the D21 gallery. It\u2019s part of the Lindenow artists\u2019 network, which recently helped kick the far-right NPD party out of its headquarters here. Then down on Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe, above a junk shop, you\u2019ll find Delikatessenhaus, a gallery showcasing the work of young graphic artists.For visitors to the city in October, there\u2019s the Designers\u2019 Open, a design fair with satellites throughout the city. But there aren\u2019t many designer boutiques in Leipzig \u2013 shopping\u2019s not really part of the lifestyle. At the weekend everyone\u2019s out in the park. That\u2019s confusing for tourists, though, wandering into neighbourhoods and seeing empty stores. It can be eerie walking down the street and finding no one\u2019s around. When I first moved here, I thought it was like being in a film the whole time. But space means if you want to start something, there\u2019s nothing stopping you. In other cities, New York say, it\u2019s expensive, highly competitive and the turnover rate is high, artists have to make their mark quickly. Here, someone just buys an old factory, renovates it and starts planning their exhibition programme.At Kunstkraftwerk, I\u2019m looking to inject some multiculturalism, which is still missing in the arts here. Despite all the hype, Leipzig\u2019s still a very German city, with a strong classical tradition. But our factory space here dominates the scene. Against that, only new, bold art forms really work. Over the next year, we\u2019ll be hosting installations, video, photography and large-scale sculpture by artists from all over the world. Related: Germany: Is Leipzig the new Berlin? There\u2019s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations \u2013 from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to share their favourite experiences and Instagram pictures of Leipzig. These are just a few, with more here:Angela Merkel\u2019s old student clubThere are lots of good restaurants and bars on Barfussg\u00e4sschen right by the Marktplatz. And nearby is the historic beer cellar Auerbachskeller. If you\u2019re feeling like going out and celebrating with local people, there are lots of places you can go. How about a beach party with fresh cocktails at the La Playa beach bar? Or dancing alongside Leipzig\u2019s beautiful people at Club L1? If you are into alternative or indie sounds, the right place to be would be surely Elsterartig, which has free admission. Visitors should also check out the cultural centre and former student club Moritzbastei, set up within historic vaults that were originally part of the old fortifications of Leipzig. When she was a student at Karl Marx university, chancellor Angela Merkel was among those who helped restore the structure to create a club for students.Andy SchulzeDo the Lokomotive stadiumThe Bruno-Plache-Stadion (nicknamed \u201cdas Bruno\u201d), in Probstheida, the home of the FC Lokomotive Leipzig football club, is a must-see for any football fan with its 93-year-old stand (kept almost as it was when it opened). The club was a European Cup Winner\u2019s Cup finalist in 1987, losing 0-1 to Ajax, and is well known for its UEFA Cup matches with the likes of Tottenham Hotspur, Wolverhampton Wanderers and Ipswich Town. The beer and bratwurst, fair prices and fair play will appeal to traditional football fans.Uwe Emmrich-Kie\u00dflingPuppet theatreWestfl\u00fcgel Lindenfels is located in the very arty west of the city at H\u00e4hnelstrasse 27, in Plagwitz. Neo Rauch\u2019s studio is just five minutes away and numerous galleries and cafes are dotted all over the area. The building houses Leipzig\u2019s foremost puppetry theatre with plays being put on nearly every week by Westfl\u00fcgel\u2019s own players or international ensembles. The building itself is full of character \u2013 it opened as a ballroom in 1900, and became a factory for decades thereafter and only narrowly escaped total desolation by being lovingly resurrected in the last 10 years. It is still inhabited by the character of lost places while coming to life on performance nights and every Friday as a cheap and cheerful bar with free concerts, impro theatre and great people. bluemelhTake a Trabant tourWe did a trip around Leipzig in a Trabant, the car that\u2019s such a symbol of the former East Germany, and with it you can do a fantastic city tour \u2013 much cooler than with a touristic bus. Leipzig is a great city and we had a nice time touring through with \u201cour\u201d Trabi.Dick SchiferliThrough the forest to the lakeThe Riverside Forest almost splits Leipzig in two, meaning that you can get from one end of the city to the other without using roads. Register with the public bike hire company Nextbike, get a map and plan a good hour to cycle through the woods to the lake Cospudener See, to the south of the city. The lake is good for swimming and has a cool harbour with restaurants. The cycle around the lake takes around 20 mins. If you are daring enough to get your kit off, there is the beautiful Sauna im See on the lake next to the harbour.Veraplums", "tags": ["Leipzig holidays", "Germany holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "City breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Art and design", "Culture"], "title": "The alternative city guide to Leipzig, Germany"},{"date": "2015-07-29T11:38:47Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Facebook has been told to allow people to use pseudonyms on its site by a German regulator, which has ruled that the site\u2019s \u201creal name\u201d policy violates the right to privacy.The Hamburg data protection authority said on Tuesday that the site could not force users to give official ID such as a passport or identity card, nor could it unilaterally change their chosen names to their \u201creal\u201d names on the site.Facebook\u2019s enforcement of its policy, which limits individuals to one account each and requires that those accounts be held under their real name, frequently results in accounts with suspected pseudonyms being locked by the company until the owner can prove their name, or even just the name being changed back by Facebook.Johannes Caspar, the Hamburg commissioner for data protection and freedom of information, said: \u201cAs in many other complaints against Facebook, this case demonstrates that the network wants to enforce the so-called real names policy with no regard to national legislation.\u201dHe added that the requirement to use a real name violates the rights, enshrined in German law, to use a pseudonym, while requests for digital copies of an official photo ID also contradict the passport and ID card law. In addition, he said that \u201cthe unauthorised modification of the pseudonym \u2026 blatantly violated the right to informational self-determination and constitutes a deliberate infringement of the Data Protection Act\u201d.Facebook has repeatedly clashed with European data regulators, arguing that it should only be bound by the decisions of the Irish data protection office, since its EU headquarters are based in that nation. In June, after the Belgian privacy commission took the company to court over user tracking, a Facebook spokesperson said that the privacy commissioner should have worked with them \u201cthrough a dialogue with us at Facebook Ireland and with our regulator, the Irish data protection commissioner\u201d.Caspar pre-emptively rejected that argument: \u201cIn this case, Facebook can not retreat to the position that the Irish Data Protection Act sets the standard here. Last year the ECJ blocked that position with case-law related to Google\u2019s search engine. Facebook has economic activity in Gemany with its branch in Hamburg. So: if you like our game, you must play by our rules.\u201dIn a statement, a Facebook spokesperson said: \u201cWe\u2019re disappointed Facebook\u2019s authentic name policy is being revisited, since German courts have reviewed it on multiple occasions and regulators have determined it fully complies with applicable European data protection law. The use of authentic names on Facebook protects people\u2019s privacy and safety by ensuring people know who they\u2019re sharing and connecting with.\u201dFacebook\u2019s real name policy has long been one of the most controversial rules on the site. In February, the site was accused of discrimination after a number of Native American activists reported having their accounts suspended or names changed to match European norms. Dana Lone Hill argued that: \u201cKaty Perry\u2019s Left Shark from her Super Bowl halftime show has a Facebook page and we have to prove who we are.\u201dThe policy hit the headlines again in June after Zip, a trans former Facebook employee who was instrumental in introducing the company\u2019s custom gender feature, was required to \u201cprove\u201d her name to the company \u2013 the same name that had been on her name badge while she worked for Facebook.\u201cWe use names that don\u2019t match our ID on Facebook for safety, or because we\u2019re trans, or because we\u2019re just straight up not known by our legal names,\u201d Zip wrote. \u201cHaving chosen its policy, Facebook has to enforce it. And because its policy attempts to hammer the reality of names into a constrained model they end up having to make a trade-off in the edge cases. Some people are not allowed to use their names so that everyone else\u2019s can be enforced.\u201d", "tags": ["Facebook", "Technology", "Germany", "Social networking", "World news", "Media", "Europe"], "title": "Germany fights Facebook over real names policy"},{"date": "2015-07-22T16:55:14Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Political Berlin feels emotional right now. A high-level German politician put it this way to me recently: \u201cIt\u2019s like a whole hysteria going on here. The Berlin political world is emotional all the time. It has to stop, but I don\u2019t know how. The anger is on the left, it\u2019s on the right.\u201d The historian Jacob Soll touched on this outpouring of emotion as it relates to Greece in a column in the New York Times last week, and his conclusion is that Germans must regain their cool if they want to lead Europe.He is right, but he is skipping a step. Germans cannot regain their cool until they reduce the outrage they feel towards Greece, which they perceive as the guilty partner in their eurozone marriage. To do this, both nations must engage an impartial, outside mediator to help them mitigate the outrage they feel towards each other. In a structured, therapy-like setting, relevant policymakers from both sides would then finally be able to sit together and create a shared vision to wrest Greece from its economic depression. Related: Why is Germany so tough on Greece? Look back 25 years | Dirk Laabs Outrage-mitigation mediation works in situations where activists and corporations find themselves at loggerheads. Ideally, corporations and their critics commit to sitting together in a room and sharing their dilemmas \u2013 to actually explaining their positions in the safe space created by the mediators.The chief executive of a corporation that has flouted environmental laws might say something like: \u201cYou activists just don\u2019t get it. This pollution is not that bad. It creates X amount of jobs and it allows us to earn Y amount of profit. We can then pay Z taxes and thereby fulfil our role in society.\u201dThe activists might reply: \u201cWe won\u2019t accept that logic, because \u2013 aside from the fact that you\u2019re ruining the environment, perhaps with the tacit acceptance of regulators whom you\u2019ve bought off \u2013 your pollution is just shifting the cost of your business to society, which has to deal with all of these sick and/or dead people. But, OK, we get that your business has an economic purpose, so if you stop polluting and move to another model, we will mobilise our base and our leadership to support you.\u201dGermany can look to its own transformation away from nuclear power to renewables as an example here. This process, accelerated after Fukushima, saw anti-nuclear activists, politicians and the power industry jointly define the vision for the future state of Germany\u2019s energy supply. Since everyone has bought into the vision, activists and industry stand eagerly behind the transformation. In fact, buy-in for this green movement has become so widespread that it has become part of Germany\u2019s national identity.Seen in this light, last week\u2019s deal imposing a 77% VAT increase \u2013 from 13% to 23% \u2013 and other punitive measures on Greece are bound to fail: not only because they would seem to contradict a century of economic theory, but also because neither Germany nor Greece has bought into them. Everyone hates this deal.Germany feels it is being asked for a gift at the end of a gun, sinking money into a country that will never actually pay it back and that it does not perceive as critical for its national and economic security. Greece is outraged that more austerity will further lower its standard of living, and it is tired of being called lazy and inept by Europe\u2019s de facto hegemonic power.An impartial mediating team could help treat the emotion and lower the outrageThe finance ministers Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble and Euclid Tsakalotos must lead their staffs in committing to outrage mitigation under mediation. This is imperative because functionaries from both governments are, sadly, pushing their negative emotion out into their nations\u2019 media. And Greek and German media are in turn whipping up the kind of populist sentiment that is manifesting itself as anti-Greece protests in front of the Bundestag or Angela Merkel Hitler posters in Athens. The toxicity of the debate has reached fever pitch on both sides.An impartial mediating team \u2013 comprising \u201cmiddle power\u201d diplomats supported by a consultancy specialising in outrage mitigation \u2013 could help treat the emotion and lower the outrage. Once this is done, policymakers in Athens and Berlin will be in a position to draft a shared vision for what a successful future state looks like and how it can be achieved.Until this happens, we will see the perpetuation of a crisis in which Germans become angrier, Greeks poorer and other Europeans doubtful of the resilience of the European Union project.", "tags": ["Greece", "Germany", "Eurozone crisis", "Eurozone", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Euro", "Economics", "Europe", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Germany and Greece need a mediator | Michael Scaturro"},{"date": "2015-07-01T19:08:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Matthew Evans has got his argument backwards (Bergen-Belsen was a German atrocity, Letters, 30 June). Everyone \u201cwho cares about the Holocaust and historical accuracy\u201d needs to distinguish between the Nazis and \u201cthe Germans\u201d precisely because explanations of the Holocaust must grasp its political causes, and not rely on lazy \u2013 and in fact racist \u2013 equations of nazism with Germany. Hundreds of thousands of Germans, including political opponents of nazism, victims of the so-called euthanasia programme and Jewish Germans were murdered by the Nazis, who knew very well the difference between themselves and the kind of Germans they aspired to fashion. Some of these Germans died in Bergen-Belsen. Evans insults their memory, as well as doing a massive disservice to the principles of accuracy he claims to honour.Jane CaplanEmeritus professor of modern European history, University of Oxford Related: Bergen-Belsen was a German atrocity, not just a Nazi one | Letters \u2022 We know why the Guardian and others describe atrocities in the second world war as Nazi rather than German. It is to distinguish between Germany under National Socialism and the democratic, open Germany that has so remarkably emerged from that war and then the cold war, and which has done much to face its Nazi past. The alternative may achieve narrow historical exactitude, but that is outweighed by its possible connotations of collective historical guilt, itself one of the elements in the Nazi demonising of the Jewish people. This is not \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d (in any case an imprecise, catch-all term) but responsible discourse.Canon Robert TitleyRector, Richmond team ministry, diocese of Southwark\u2022 I would agree with Matthew Evans that German nationalism was part of what made my mother a young widow in 1944. However, with the perspective of history, I would now focus on the ideology which uncaged that beast. That sort of ideology is the real enemy, and it is not exclusively German. It stalks the corridors of power in every nation, seeking out those who do not at first recognise it for what it is, or (much worse) believe foolishly that it can be controlled. From my perspective I do not see a focus on the Nazi ideology as \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d: I see it as political clarity of vision.Roger WilsonBillingshurst, West Sussex\u2022 Of the many Germans I knew before the war, several lost their lives fighting the Nazis in Germany. Would the noble lord have placed his head on the line fighting them if the fascists had taken over in Britain? In the last free elections before the Nazis seized power, the socialist/communist vote was greater than the vote for the Nazis. No wonder the Nazis came for them well before they came for the Jews, and, of course, many of those who opposed them at the risk of torture and death were also Jewish. Is Lord Evans prepared to accept responsibility for the atrocities committed by Britain in its empire, especially in India? It is a gross insult to the many thousands of Germans who opposed the Nazis actively to hold them reponsible for the concentration camps.Len GoldmanBrighton Related: Nazis, Germans and cold war propaganda | Letter from John Wilson \u2022 Having grown up in a country where historical guilt is done to excess, we Huns were most most certainly in need of Matthew Evans\u2019 wisdom \u2013 as I\u2019m sure were you Brits, given that TV here only shows a programme dealing with the Nazis every other day.Anke NeibigNewcastle upon Tyne\u2022 That the Guardian does not in the first instance call the Nazi camps \u201cGerman\u201d is not a sign of \u201cworrying political correctness\u201d. In its methods, the Holocaust relied upon those of European industrialisation and colonialism. In its ideology, it was an expression of millennia of European antisemitism. Only Nazis believed there was something specially German about their undertaking. The camps were Nazi.I was at the Jewish Museum with the German School last week and we were taught how some orthodox Jews may have separate kitchens for meat and dairy products. I thought about Ed Miliband: didn\u2019t we have a good laugh about his nose! And his ability to eat bacon! And now we find he had two kitchens! And then I got to thinking about his act of primal treachery; and about his immigrant father who hated Britain; and about his plan to stab Britain in the back (the same impulse was evident in the Dolchstosslegende in the Weimar Republic \u2013 the legend that the war was lost because of treacherous Jews). When I asked staff at the museum what they thought about the treatment of Miliband, they said they thought it was obviously antisemitic but they didn\u2019t make a fuss about it because it would just make things worse.No one seems to say much about it though. Why? Because real antisemitism is something those evil Germans did? In any case, one danger we shouldn\u2019t be overly concerned with is \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d.George HowardRichmond, Surrey\u2022 I share Matthew Evans\u2019 concern about the trend for creating an imagined community of \u201cNazis\u201d where German atrocities can safely be compartmentalised away from the troubling reality of national complicity in cruelty. In 1904, before the Nazis came to power, Germany exterminated 80% of the Herero tribe in Namibia \u2013 60,000 people \u2013 and embarked on a horrific project of human experimentation on tribal survivors that was later resumed against Europeans in second world war death camps.But Evans\u2019 letter also follows the dominant trend of referring only to Jewish victims and replaces the postwar reference to \u201cGerman crimes against humanity\u201d with the word Holocaust \u2013 sometimes Shoah. This might be an understandable emphasis if one is Jewish but it does thereby exclude the full spectrum of victims.Nazi electoral success owed a great deal to the scapegoating of a generation of black mixed-race Germans \u2013 known nationally and in Mein Kampf as Rhineland Bastards. Mein Kampf also gives them the label \u201chalf-apes\u201d. Some populist histories chose to forget they were persecuted, along with homosexuals, the disabled, Gypsies, trade unionists and leftists. Huge numbers of Poles and millions of captured Russians were also killed in camps.Dr Gavin LewisManchester", "tags": ["Second world war", "Germany", "Europe", "Adolf Hitler", "World news", "The far right", "Holocaust"], "title": "The Nazis, Germany and lazy equations | Letters"},{"date": "2015-09-29T15:46:52Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Most refugees have already defied the odds by the time they arrive in Europe, having typically undertaken perilous journeys across land and sea. But once they have reached Germany they are not out of danger, according to mushroom experts and doctors, who warn record numbers of people are becoming ill after eating poisonous mushrooms.A leading German toxicologist has said poisonings are at an all-time high owing to the large number of newcomers foraging for mushrooms and mistaking those they find for varieties found in their homelands.Prof Siegmar Berndt, thead toxicologist of the German Mycological Society, said he had never come across so many cases. \u201cIn my 70-year lifespan there have never been so many mushroom poisonings as there have been so far this year,\u201d he told the Guardian.\u201cMost of the victims are refugees and asylum-seekers who have already arrived in Germany, mainly from Syria.\u201dIn addition to whole families who headed into the woodland close to their refugee shelters to forage for mushrooms, and took pleasure in finding something they appeared to know from their countries of origin, there were groups of men looking for alternative ways to spend their time who had fallen victim to toxic mushroom varieties.\u201cIt\u2019s largely young men who are bored. They go for a walk in the woods, pick the mushrooms and consume them after frying them,\u201d Berndt said. \u201cIt\u2019s tragic, particularly when you consider the journeys they\u2019ve already endured to get here.\u201d In the first two weeks of September alone, there have been more than 40 reported cases of poisonings, mainly linked to thedeath cap mushroom, Amanita phalloides. The fungus is responsible for 90% of all mushroom poisoning. One or two cases in a season would be the norm. But Berndt believes the real figure could be much higher. \u201cThere is no obligation for people to report cases of poisoning in Germany, so I suspect there have been lots of other cases that have gone unreported,\u201d he said. With the three-month mushroom season only about halfway gone, more cases are expected.The poisonings include 30 in Hannover and a further 10 in M\u00fcnster, including a 16-year-old boy who died after a replacement liver could not be found in time to save him. Another Syrian is in a critical condition and awaiting a suitable liver.Experts believe that the victims mistook the death caps for the bearded Amanita, which is not found in Germany but grows in the Mediterranean area. Related: Refugees welcome? How UK and Germany compare on migration In response to the high number of incidents, doctors at Hannover Medical School have formulated a poster that has been distributed to refugee shelters across Germany in eight languages.It warns against collecting and consuming the fungus, which it says has no repellant taste and the first symptoms occur only after several hours.\u201cA mushroom you regard from your homeland as a delicious edible mushroom could be deadly here, although they look similar,\u201d it states, urging anyone who has eaten one to seek hospital help, and to take any remains, or any vomit, with them, in order to help determine the cause of the poisoning.\u201cWith the mushroom season still having some way to go, if we can reach people with this message, we really have the chance to save lives,\u201d said Stefan Zorn, spokesman for the hospital.Spikes in mushroom-poisoning cases have previously been linked to the arrival of refugees. In the late 90s there were several incidents of Kosovans being poisoned, and, in the early 90s, of ethnic Germans from Russia.Often the victims are reluctant to present themselves in hospital for fear of getting into trouble for stealing.The death cap mushroom, once consumed, can quickly lead to liver and kidney malfunction owing to the amatoxin it contains. As small an amount as half a mushroom can be fatal.\u201cBut it can take up to three days for the symptoms \u2013 including vomiting and diarrhoea \u2013 to appear, by which time someone\u2019s liver might have been destroyed,\u201d said Kerstin Aretz, from Dresden, who, like Berndt, is one of more than 1,000 registered mushroom experts throughout Germany, to whom mushroom pickers can turn with queries about whether their spoils are edible or not.", "tags": ["Germany", "Fungi", "Refugees", "Biology", "Migration", "Food & drink", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany attributes spike in mushroom poisonings to foraging refugees"},{"date": "2015-09-13T14:29:13Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany and its second city, Munich, are reaching the limit of their capacity in the face of the biggest refugee influx since the second world war, senior officials have said.The economy minister, Sigmar Gabriel, said in a newspaper interview on Sunday that Germany was reaching its limit as thousands of refugees continue to stream across its borders every day.  Related: How much longer can Germany keep its doors open to refugees? \u201cIt\u2019s true. The European lack of action in the refugee crisis is now pushing even Germany to the limit of its ability,\u201d he said in an interview published on Der Tagesspiegel\u2019s website. The German government is expecting 800,000 new arrivals this year. On Saturday, about 13,000 arrived in Munich alone.Earlier, a police official in Munich said: \u201cGiven the numbers from yesterday, it is very clear that we have reached the upper limit of our capacity.\u201dThe president of the Upper Bavaria region, Christoph Hillenbrand, said he did not know \u201chow we can cope\u201d, according to the Bild am Sonntag tabloid, which headlined its article \u201cMunich at the brink of collapse\u201d.Bavarian public television channel BR said the city \u201ccame very close to a humanitarian disaster\u201d, although authorities managed to limit the numbers of people sleeping on mattresses on the floor to just a few dozen, rather than the hundreds as earlier feared.Authorities are considering whether to open up the Olympiahalle \u2013 a stadium used for the 1972 Olympics which today serves as a concert hall or sports arena \u2013 as a temporary shelter for refugees.Refugees continued to move north through the Balkans in large numbers. Hungary reported another one-day record on Saturday, when 4,330 people entered the country.Further south, 28 people drowned after the boat they were on capsized off a Greek island; 98 were rescued.", "tags": ["Refugees", "Migration", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Hungary", "Greece"], "title": "Refugee crisis: Germany reaching its limit, say officials"},{"date": "2015-08-10T05:30:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "By Josie Le Blond, freelance journalist based in Berlin Leipzig is Germany\u2019s boom-town. Last year, the city\u2019s population went up by 12,000, a rise of 2% taking the number of residents over 550,000 for the first time since reunification. Many were newcomers arriving with dreams of a near-empty, artistic paradise, buzzing with a do-it-yourself entrepreneurial spirit. A place where almost anything is possible.There\u2019s plenty of room to do it. In the old western industrial quarter of Plagwitz, for example, rows of empty factories wait to be transformed into studios and exhibition spaces along the lines of the sprawling Baumwollspinnerei gallery complex, which this summer celebrates its 10th birthday. Western Leipzig\u2019s latest industrial metamorphosis is the Kunstkraftwerk. Once a crumbling, unsafe ruin, the former power station has been revamped into a mighty installation space now attracting experimental artists from all over the globe.But with all the recent buzz \u2013 referred to sardonically by locals as \u201chypezig\u201d \u2013 some areas are struggling to keep up with the pace of change. Plagwitz, long plugged as the beating heart of the city\u2019s underground art scene, is said to be losing some of its edge. \u201cPlagwitz has been the in area for years, but things have already moved on,\u201d says art project manager Angela Straube-Bornberg. She says those disillusioned with Plagwitz now look to the city\u2019s wilder, undeveloped eastern district. \u201cThe students all live there now. There are galleries and wild parties and projects everywhere.\u201dBehind the boarded-up shop fronts and pop-up galleries, clubs and cafes are perpetually opening up, and being shut down, sometimes within a matter of weeks.\u201cThere are a lot of empty buildings around here and rents are still cheap,\u201d says Noriko Minkus, co-founder of the Japanisches Haus, a \u201cpost-growth\u201d, not-for-profit community project on Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe, the district\u2019s core street. \u201cAll the young people starting projects makes it a really interesting area. But that means it will soon be under threat from gentrification, too.\u201dAlongside art exhibitions, concerts and readings, Minkus and her friends organise children\u2019s workshops and communal meals aimed at \u201cbottom-up international exchange\u201d \u2013 bringing the local students closer to the area\u2019s relatively large immigrant population.Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe is not everyone\u2019s idea of the perfect playground. The street is infamous in Germany as a crime hotspot, disturbing Leipzig\u2019s otherwise friendly, peaceful backwater vibe. But it\u2019s far from being dangerous compared with many global cities. If you visit the Japanisches Haus on a Saturday evening, you can join its VoK\u00fc or \u201cpeople\u2019s kitchen\u201d and, in exchange for a donation, share an informal, home-cooked meal with locals.By Stefan Kache, owner of Distillery, Leipzig\u2019s long-established techno clubTechno\u2019s still a big part of Leipzig\u2019s music scene. There are four main techno clubs here, including Distillery. The newest is the Institute f\u00fcr Zukunft, which opened about a year ago. Then in Plagwitz, there are Elipamanoke and the Damenhandschuhfabrik.The east has smaller spots like Ost Apotheke \u2013 a squat-cum-hostel with a club built in. Many clubs in the area don\u2019t even have a rental contract. People just help themselves to the empty buildings and get on with it. It\u2019s harder than it used to be for these places popping up, though. In the early 1990s we ran Distillery illegally for two and a half years in a factory we just took over. They\u2019d never last that long now. If you want live music, head to Plagwitz\u2019s Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe and look for the pubs, which often have bands playing. Westwerk, a gig venue in an old factory building, is a good place to try. Or down in Connewitz, there\u2019s Die Nato and Conne Island - both are cultural centres hosting gigs and other events.Leipzig has a certain buzz about it right now because of the really lively scene. The hype means the scene is growing more international. At Distillery, we still have our regulars, but we also hear a lot of different languages being spoken now. Leipzig\u2019s a much better place to live than it was. The city has a certain kind of magic about it which is hard to describe. It comes when you really live here and experience it for yourself.\u201dBy Diana Wernicke, events manager at The Market, a new monthly street food, vintage and design market held at T\u00e4ubchenthal, a converted factory in PlagwitzIt\u2019s best to jump on a bike and get out of the city centre, which is dominated by chain restaurants \u2013 there\u2019s no good reason to eat factory-made food when there\u2019s some little place just opened in Plagwitz making the same thing from scratch. One brand new place is Kaiserbad (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 93), a beer garden and restaurant serving traditional meals such as schnitzel, along with salads and burgers. It opened in mid-July in a fantastic location at the former Westwerk factory complex. Another new Plagwitz hotspot is Chumumi (Zschochersche Stra\u00dfe 50a) - a little Vietnamese place with great food and lovely decor. Choose from traditional Vietnamese soups (pho) or a wide variety of meat and fish dishes flavoured with peanuts, soy, Thai basil and ginger. It also has an extraordinary drinks menu \u2013 try the chrysanthemum and green sencha leaf tea with roasted soya beans.If you\u2019re vegan or vegetarian like me, you\u2019ve come to the right place. Leipzig was recently named Germany\u2019s most vegan-friendly city. Zest (Bornaische Stra\u00dfe 54) in the southern district of Connewitz is one of the city\u2019s oldest veggie/vegan restaurants and is well-known for its wines too. Choose from dishes such as shiitake seitan with polenta fries and lemon mirin mayonnaise or chanterelle mushroom and lovage ravioli with hazelnut tarator and cognac shallots.Or try the vegetarian Moroccan dishes at Salon Casablanca (no website) (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 47). Alongside tagines, it has exotic twists on European favourites such as spaghetti with Arabic tomato, courgette and pepper sauce served with sheep\u2019s cheese. If you\u2019re craving sugar afterwards, Caf\u00e9 Albert just along the street (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 74), makes fresh homemade cakes \u2013 on Thursdays they\u2019re vegan. This is one of many places here where local people have put their hearts and souls into making it work.Leipzig\u2019s a relaxed place and there\u2019s loads of space for creativity \u2013 things happen here which would be unthinkable elsewhere. Everyone\u2019s organising their own cultural events, little festivals, just doing it for themselves and for other locals. With The Market, we wanted to bring all those kinds of people together in one place so they could exchange ideas. We also wanted to broaden Leipzigers\u2019 culinary horizons. The stands are all run by the chefs themselves so they can talk directly to their customers about what they\u2019re eating. Like everywhere nowadays, the trend is towards locally and sustainably sourced ingredients. One of our stands sells pizza made from products grown at Annalinde, an urban gardening project here in Plagwitz.Street food markets, inspired by the ones in London, are taking the whole of Germany by storm right now, not just Leipzig. It started last year in Berlin and this summer has reached Munich and Hamburg. Now they\u2019re springing up all over the place. We wanted ours to be more like an event that people would hang around at after they\u2019d eaten. As well as art and design stalls, we\u2019ve got street artists, fire shows, DJs and bands in the evening. We\u2019re hoping people realise it\u2019s not all about shopping. They can relax and soak up the laid-back Leipzig atmosphere.By Candace Goodrich, a New Yorker who is art director at the Kunstkraftwerk in Plagwitz, a former heating plant transformed into an exhibition spaceHead east if you\u2019re looking for underground culture. They\u2019re doing some amazing things around Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe. They aren\u2019t established galleries, but I\u2019d say just go and discover, especially in the evening. There\u2019s interesting nightlife going on there too. Try this colour-coded map, which will give you an idea of various art projects in the east.In Plagwitz, visitors should go to the D21 gallery. It\u2019s part of the Lindenow artists\u2019 network, which recently helped kick the far-right NPD party out of its headquarters here. Then down on Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe, above a junk shop, you\u2019ll find Delikatessenhaus, a gallery showcasing the work of young graphic artists.For visitors to the city in October, there\u2019s the Designers\u2019 Open, a design fair with satellites throughout the city. But there aren\u2019t many designer boutiques in Leipzig \u2013 shopping\u2019s not really part of the lifestyle. At the weekend everyone\u2019s out in the park. That\u2019s confusing for tourists, though, wandering into neighbourhoods and seeing empty stores. It can be eerie walking down the street and finding no one\u2019s around. When I first moved here, I thought it was like being in a film the whole time. But space means if you want to start something, there\u2019s nothing stopping you. In other cities, New York say, it\u2019s expensive, highly competitive and the turnover rate is high, artists have to make their mark quickly. Here, someone just buys an old factory, renovates it and starts planning their exhibition programme.At Kunstkraftwerk, I\u2019m looking to inject some multiculturalism, which is still missing in the arts here. Despite all the hype, Leipzig\u2019s still a very German city, with a strong classical tradition. But our factory space here dominates the scene. Against that, only new, bold art forms really work. Over the next year, we\u2019ll be hosting installations, video, photography and large-scale sculpture by artists from all over the world. Related: Germany: Is Leipzig the new Berlin? There\u2019s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations \u2013 from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to share their favourite experiences and Instagram pictures of Leipzig. These are just a few, with more here:Angela Merkel\u2019s old student clubThere are lots of good restaurants and bars on Barfussg\u00e4sschen right by the Marktplatz. And nearby is the historic beer cellar Auerbachskeller. If you\u2019re feeling like going out and celebrating with local people, there are lots of places you can go. How about a beach party with fresh cocktails at the La Playa beach bar? Or dancing alongside Leipzig\u2019s beautiful people at Club L1? If you are into alternative or indie sounds, the right place to be would be surely Elsterartig, which has free admission. Visitors should also check out the cultural centre and former student club Moritzbastei, set up within historic vaults that were originally part of the old fortifications of Leipzig. When she was a student at Karl Marx university, chancellor Angela Merkel was among those who helped restore the structure to create a club for students.Andy SchulzeDo the Lokomotive stadiumThe Bruno-Plache-Stadion (nicknamed \u201cdas Bruno\u201d), in Probstheida, the home of the FC Lokomotive Leipzig football club, is a must-see for any football fan with its 93-year-old stand (kept almost as it was when it opened). The club was a European Cup Winner\u2019s Cup finalist in 1987, losing 0-1 to Ajax, and is well known for its UEFA Cup matches with the likes of Tottenham Hotspur, Wolverhampton Wanderers and Ipswich Town. The beer and bratwurst, fair prices and fair play will appeal to traditional football fans.Uwe Emmrich-Kie\u00dflingPuppet theatreWestfl\u00fcgel Lindenfels is located in the very arty west of the city at H\u00e4hnelstrasse 27, in Plagwitz. Neo Rauch\u2019s studio is just five minutes away and numerous galleries and cafes are dotted all over the area. The building houses Leipzig\u2019s foremost puppetry theatre with plays being put on nearly every week by Westfl\u00fcgel\u2019s own players or international ensembles. The building itself is full of character \u2013 it opened as a ballroom in 1900, and became a factory for decades thereafter and only narrowly escaped total desolation by being lovingly resurrected in the last 10 years. It is still inhabited by the character of lost places while coming to life on performance nights and every Friday as a cheap and cheerful bar with free concerts, impro theatre and great people. bluemelhTake a Trabant tourWe did a trip around Leipzig in a Trabant, the car that\u2019s such a symbol of the former East Germany, and with it you can do a fantastic city tour \u2013 much cooler than with a touristic bus. Leipzig is a great city and we had a nice time touring through with \u201cour\u201d Trabi.Dick SchiferliThrough the forest to the lakeThe Riverside Forest almost splits Leipzig in two, meaning that you can get from one end of the city to the other without using roads. Register with the public bike hire company Nextbike, get a map and plan a good hour to cycle through the woods to the lake Cospudener See, to the south of the city. The lake is good for swimming and has a cool harbour with restaurants. The cycle around the lake takes around 20 mins. If you are daring enough to get your kit off, there is the beautiful Sauna im See on the lake next to the harbour.Veraplums", "tags": ["Leipzig holidays", "Germany holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "City breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Art and design", "Culture"], "title": "The alternative city guide to Leipzig, Germany"},{"date": "2015-07-29T11:38:47Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Facebook has been told to allow people to use pseudonyms on its site by a German regulator, which has ruled that the site\u2019s \u201creal name\u201d policy violates the right to privacy.The Hamburg data protection authority said on Tuesday that the site could not force users to give official ID such as a passport or identity card, nor could it unilaterally change their chosen names to their \u201creal\u201d names on the site.Facebook\u2019s enforcement of its policy, which limits individuals to one account each and requires that those accounts be held under their real name, frequently results in accounts with suspected pseudonyms being locked by the company until the owner can prove their name, or even just the name being changed back by Facebook.Johannes Caspar, the Hamburg commissioner for data protection and freedom of information, said: \u201cAs in many other complaints against Facebook, this case demonstrates that the network wants to enforce the so-called real names policy with no regard to national legislation.\u201dHe added that the requirement to use a real name violates the rights, enshrined in German law, to use a pseudonym, while requests for digital copies of an official photo ID also contradict the passport and ID card law. In addition, he said that \u201cthe unauthorised modification of the pseudonym \u2026 blatantly violated the right to informational self-determination and constitutes a deliberate infringement of the Data Protection Act\u201d.Facebook has repeatedly clashed with European data regulators, arguing that it should only be bound by the decisions of the Irish data protection office, since its EU headquarters are based in that nation. In June, after the Belgian privacy commission took the company to court over user tracking, a Facebook spokesperson said that the privacy commissioner should have worked with them \u201cthrough a dialogue with us at Facebook Ireland and with our regulator, the Irish data protection commissioner\u201d.Caspar pre-emptively rejected that argument: \u201cIn this case, Facebook can not retreat to the position that the Irish Data Protection Act sets the standard here. Last year the ECJ blocked that position with case-law related to Google\u2019s search engine. Facebook has economic activity in Gemany with its branch in Hamburg. So: if you like our game, you must play by our rules.\u201dIn a statement, a Facebook spokesperson said: \u201cWe\u2019re disappointed Facebook\u2019s authentic name policy is being revisited, since German courts have reviewed it on multiple occasions and regulators have determined it fully complies with applicable European data protection law. The use of authentic names on Facebook protects people\u2019s privacy and safety by ensuring people know who they\u2019re sharing and connecting with.\u201dFacebook\u2019s real name policy has long been one of the most controversial rules on the site. In February, the site was accused of discrimination after a number of Native American activists reported having their accounts suspended or names changed to match European norms. Dana Lone Hill argued that: \u201cKaty Perry\u2019s Left Shark from her Super Bowl halftime show has a Facebook page and we have to prove who we are.\u201dThe policy hit the headlines again in June after Zip, a trans former Facebook employee who was instrumental in introducing the company\u2019s custom gender feature, was required to \u201cprove\u201d her name to the company \u2013 the same name that had been on her name badge while she worked for Facebook.\u201cWe use names that don\u2019t match our ID on Facebook for safety, or because we\u2019re trans, or because we\u2019re just straight up not known by our legal names,\u201d Zip wrote. \u201cHaving chosen its policy, Facebook has to enforce it. And because its policy attempts to hammer the reality of names into a constrained model they end up having to make a trade-off in the edge cases. Some people are not allowed to use their names so that everyone else\u2019s can be enforced.\u201d", "tags": ["Facebook", "Technology", "Germany", "Social networking", "World news", "Media", "Europe"], "title": "Germany fights Facebook over real names policy"},{"date": "2015-07-22T16:55:14Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Political Berlin feels emotional right now. A high-level German politician put it this way to me recently: \u201cIt\u2019s like a whole hysteria going on here. The Berlin political world is emotional all the time. It has to stop, but I don\u2019t know how. The anger is on the left, it\u2019s on the right.\u201d The historian Jacob Soll touched on this outpouring of emotion as it relates to Greece in a column in the New York Times last week, and his conclusion is that Germans must regain their cool if they want to lead Europe.He is right, but he is skipping a step. Germans cannot regain their cool until they reduce the outrage they feel towards Greece, which they perceive as the guilty partner in their eurozone marriage. To do this, both nations must engage an impartial, outside mediator to help them mitigate the outrage they feel towards each other. In a structured, therapy-like setting, relevant policymakers from both sides would then finally be able to sit together and create a shared vision to wrest Greece from its economic depression. Related: Why is Germany so tough on Greece? Look back 25 years | Dirk Laabs Outrage-mitigation mediation works in situations where activists and corporations find themselves at loggerheads. Ideally, corporations and their critics commit to sitting together in a room and sharing their dilemmas \u2013 to actually explaining their positions in the safe space created by the mediators.The chief executive of a corporation that has flouted environmental laws might say something like: \u201cYou activists just don\u2019t get it. This pollution is not that bad. It creates X amount of jobs and it allows us to earn Y amount of profit. We can then pay Z taxes and thereby fulfil our role in society.\u201dThe activists might reply: \u201cWe won\u2019t accept that logic, because \u2013 aside from the fact that you\u2019re ruining the environment, perhaps with the tacit acceptance of regulators whom you\u2019ve bought off \u2013 your pollution is just shifting the cost of your business to society, which has to deal with all of these sick and/or dead people. But, OK, we get that your business has an economic purpose, so if you stop polluting and move to another model, we will mobilise our base and our leadership to support you.\u201dGermany can look to its own transformation away from nuclear power to renewables as an example here. This process, accelerated after Fukushima, saw anti-nuclear activists, politicians and the power industry jointly define the vision for the future state of Germany\u2019s energy supply. Since everyone has bought into the vision, activists and industry stand eagerly behind the transformation. In fact, buy-in for this green movement has become so widespread that it has become part of Germany\u2019s national identity.Seen in this light, last week\u2019s deal imposing a 77% VAT increase \u2013 from 13% to 23% \u2013 and other punitive measures on Greece are bound to fail: not only because they would seem to contradict a century of economic theory, but also because neither Germany nor Greece has bought into them. Everyone hates this deal.Germany feels it is being asked for a gift at the end of a gun, sinking money into a country that will never actually pay it back and that it does not perceive as critical for its national and economic security. Greece is outraged that more austerity will further lower its standard of living, and it is tired of being called lazy and inept by Europe\u2019s de facto hegemonic power.An impartial mediating team could help treat the emotion and lower the outrageThe finance ministers Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble and Euclid Tsakalotos must lead their staffs in committing to outrage mitigation under mediation. This is imperative because functionaries from both governments are, sadly, pushing their negative emotion out into their nations\u2019 media. And Greek and German media are in turn whipping up the kind of populist sentiment that is manifesting itself as anti-Greece protests in front of the Bundestag or Angela Merkel Hitler posters in Athens. The toxicity of the debate has reached fever pitch on both sides.An impartial mediating team \u2013 comprising \u201cmiddle power\u201d diplomats supported by a consultancy specialising in outrage mitigation \u2013 could help treat the emotion and lower the outrage. Once this is done, policymakers in Athens and Berlin will be in a position to draft a shared vision for what a successful future state looks like and how it can be achieved.Until this happens, we will see the perpetuation of a crisis in which Germans become angrier, Greeks poorer and other Europeans doubtful of the resilience of the European Union project.", "tags": ["Greece", "Germany", "Eurozone crisis", "Eurozone", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Euro", "Economics", "Europe", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Germany and Greece need a mediator | Michael Scaturro"},{"date": "2015-07-01T19:08:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Matthew Evans has got his argument backwards (Bergen-Belsen was a German atrocity, Letters, 30 June). Everyone \u201cwho cares about the Holocaust and historical accuracy\u201d needs to distinguish between the Nazis and \u201cthe Germans\u201d precisely because explanations of the Holocaust must grasp its political causes, and not rely on lazy \u2013 and in fact racist \u2013 equations of nazism with Germany. Hundreds of thousands of Germans, including political opponents of nazism, victims of the so-called euthanasia programme and Jewish Germans were murdered by the Nazis, who knew very well the difference between themselves and the kind of Germans they aspired to fashion. Some of these Germans died in Bergen-Belsen. Evans insults their memory, as well as doing a massive disservice to the principles of accuracy he claims to honour.Jane CaplanEmeritus professor of modern European history, University of Oxford Related: Bergen-Belsen was a German atrocity, not just a Nazi one | Letters \u2022 We know why the Guardian and others describe atrocities in the second world war as Nazi rather than German. It is to distinguish between Germany under National Socialism and the democratic, open Germany that has so remarkably emerged from that war and then the cold war, and which has done much to face its Nazi past. The alternative may achieve narrow historical exactitude, but that is outweighed by its possible connotations of collective historical guilt, itself one of the elements in the Nazi demonising of the Jewish people. This is not \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d (in any case an imprecise, catch-all term) but responsible discourse.Canon Robert TitleyRector, Richmond team ministry, diocese of Southwark\u2022 I would agree with Matthew Evans that German nationalism was part of what made my mother a young widow in 1944. However, with the perspective of history, I would now focus on the ideology which uncaged that beast. That sort of ideology is the real enemy, and it is not exclusively German. It stalks the corridors of power in every nation, seeking out those who do not at first recognise it for what it is, or (much worse) believe foolishly that it can be controlled. From my perspective I do not see a focus on the Nazi ideology as \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d: I see it as political clarity of vision.Roger WilsonBillingshurst, West Sussex\u2022 Of the many Germans I knew before the war, several lost their lives fighting the Nazis in Germany. Would the noble lord have placed his head on the line fighting them if the fascists had taken over in Britain? In the last free elections before the Nazis seized power, the socialist/communist vote was greater than the vote for the Nazis. No wonder the Nazis came for them well before they came for the Jews, and, of course, many of those who opposed them at the risk of torture and death were also Jewish. Is Lord Evans prepared to accept responsibility for the atrocities committed by Britain in its empire, especially in India? It is a gross insult to the many thousands of Germans who opposed the Nazis actively to hold them reponsible for the concentration camps.Len GoldmanBrighton Related: Nazis, Germans and cold war propaganda | Letter from John Wilson \u2022 Having grown up in a country where historical guilt is done to excess, we Huns were most most certainly in need of Matthew Evans\u2019 wisdom \u2013 as I\u2019m sure were you Brits, given that TV here only shows a programme dealing with the Nazis every other day.Anke NeibigNewcastle upon Tyne\u2022 That the Guardian does not in the first instance call the Nazi camps \u201cGerman\u201d is not a sign of \u201cworrying political correctness\u201d. In its methods, the Holocaust relied upon those of European industrialisation and colonialism. In its ideology, it was an expression of millennia of European antisemitism. Only Nazis believed there was something specially German about their undertaking. The camps were Nazi.I was at the Jewish Museum with the German School last week and we were taught how some orthodox Jews may have separate kitchens for meat and dairy products. I thought about Ed Miliband: didn\u2019t we have a good laugh about his nose! And his ability to eat bacon! And now we find he had two kitchens! And then I got to thinking about his act of primal treachery; and about his immigrant father who hated Britain; and about his plan to stab Britain in the back (the same impulse was evident in the Dolchstosslegende in the Weimar Republic \u2013 the legend that the war was lost because of treacherous Jews). When I asked staff at the museum what they thought about the treatment of Miliband, they said they thought it was obviously antisemitic but they didn\u2019t make a fuss about it because it would just make things worse.No one seems to say much about it though. Why? Because real antisemitism is something those evil Germans did? In any case, one danger we shouldn\u2019t be overly concerned with is \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d.George HowardRichmond, Surrey\u2022 I share Matthew Evans\u2019 concern about the trend for creating an imagined community of \u201cNazis\u201d where German atrocities can safely be compartmentalised away from the troubling reality of national complicity in cruelty. In 1904, before the Nazis came to power, Germany exterminated 80% of the Herero tribe in Namibia \u2013 60,000 people \u2013 and embarked on a horrific project of human experimentation on tribal survivors that was later resumed against Europeans in second world war death camps.But Evans\u2019 letter also follows the dominant trend of referring only to Jewish victims and replaces the postwar reference to \u201cGerman crimes against humanity\u201d with the word Holocaust \u2013 sometimes Shoah. This might be an understandable emphasis if one is Jewish but it does thereby exclude the full spectrum of victims.Nazi electoral success owed a great deal to the scapegoating of a generation of black mixed-race Germans \u2013 known nationally and in Mein Kampf as Rhineland Bastards. Mein Kampf also gives them the label \u201chalf-apes\u201d. Some populist histories chose to forget they were persecuted, along with homosexuals, the disabled, Gypsies, trade unionists and leftists. Huge numbers of Poles and millions of captured Russians were also killed in camps.Dr Gavin LewisManchester", "tags": ["Second world war", "Germany", "Europe", "Adolf Hitler", "World news", "The far right", "Holocaust"], "title": "The Nazis, Germany and lazy equations | Letters"},{"date": "2015-09-29T15:46:52Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Most refugees have already defied the odds by the time they arrive in Europe, having typically undertaken perilous journeys across land and sea. But once they have reached Germany they are not out of danger, according to mushroom experts and doctors, who warn record numbers of people are becoming ill after eating poisonous mushrooms.A leading German toxicologist has said poisonings are at an all-time high owing to the large number of newcomers foraging for mushrooms and mistaking those they find for varieties found in their homelands.Prof Siegmar Berndt, thead toxicologist of the German Mycological Society, said he had never come across so many cases. \u201cIn my 70-year lifespan there have never been so many mushroom poisonings as there have been so far this year,\u201d he told the Guardian.\u201cMost of the victims are refugees and asylum-seekers who have already arrived in Germany, mainly from Syria.\u201dIn addition to whole families who headed into the woodland close to their refugee shelters to forage for mushrooms, and took pleasure in finding something they appeared to know from their countries of origin, there were groups of men looking for alternative ways to spend their time who had fallen victim to toxic mushroom varieties.\u201cIt\u2019s largely young men who are bored. They go for a walk in the woods, pick the mushrooms and consume them after frying them,\u201d Berndt said. \u201cIt\u2019s tragic, particularly when you consider the journeys they\u2019ve already endured to get here.\u201d In the first two weeks of September alone, there have been more than 40 reported cases of poisonings, mainly linked to thedeath cap mushroom, Amanita phalloides. The fungus is responsible for 90% of all mushroom poisoning. One or two cases in a season would be the norm. But Berndt believes the real figure could be much higher. \u201cThere is no obligation for people to report cases of poisoning in Germany, so I suspect there have been lots of other cases that have gone unreported,\u201d he said. With the three-month mushroom season only about halfway gone, more cases are expected.The poisonings include 30 in Hannover and a further 10 in M\u00fcnster, including a 16-year-old boy who died after a replacement liver could not be found in time to save him. Another Syrian is in a critical condition and awaiting a suitable liver.Experts believe that the victims mistook the death caps for the bearded Amanita, which is not found in Germany but grows in the Mediterranean area. Related: Refugees welcome? How UK and Germany compare on migration In response to the high number of incidents, doctors at Hannover Medical School have formulated a poster that has been distributed to refugee shelters across Germany in eight languages.It warns against collecting and consuming the fungus, which it says has no repellant taste and the first symptoms occur only after several hours.\u201cA mushroom you regard from your homeland as a delicious edible mushroom could be deadly here, although they look similar,\u201d it states, urging anyone who has eaten one to seek hospital help, and to take any remains, or any vomit, with them, in order to help determine the cause of the poisoning.\u201cWith the mushroom season still having some way to go, if we can reach people with this message, we really have the chance to save lives,\u201d said Stefan Zorn, spokesman for the hospital.Spikes in mushroom-poisoning cases have previously been linked to the arrival of refugees. In the late 90s there were several incidents of Kosovans being poisoned, and, in the early 90s, of ethnic Germans from Russia.Often the victims are reluctant to present themselves in hospital for fear of getting into trouble for stealing.The death cap mushroom, once consumed, can quickly lead to liver and kidney malfunction owing to the amatoxin it contains. As small an amount as half a mushroom can be fatal.\u201cBut it can take up to three days for the symptoms \u2013 including vomiting and diarrhoea \u2013 to appear, by which time someone\u2019s liver might have been destroyed,\u201d said Kerstin Aretz, from Dresden, who, like Berndt, is one of more than 1,000 registered mushroom experts throughout Germany, to whom mushroom pickers can turn with queries about whether their spoils are edible or not.", "tags": ["Germany", "Fungi", "Refugees", "Biology", "Migration", "Food & drink", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany attributes spike in mushroom poisonings to foraging refugees"},{"date": "2015-09-13T14:29:13Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany and its second city, Munich, are reaching the limit of their capacity in the face of the biggest refugee influx since the second world war, senior officials have said.The economy minister, Sigmar Gabriel, said in a newspaper interview on Sunday that Germany was reaching its limit as thousands of refugees continue to stream across its borders every day.  Related: How much longer can Germany keep its doors open to refugees? \u201cIt\u2019s true. The European lack of action in the refugee crisis is now pushing even Germany to the limit of its ability,\u201d he said in an interview published on Der Tagesspiegel\u2019s website. The German government is expecting 800,000 new arrivals this year. On Saturday, about 13,000 arrived in Munich alone.Earlier, a police official in Munich said: \u201cGiven the numbers from yesterday, it is very clear that we have reached the upper limit of our capacity.\u201dThe president of the Upper Bavaria region, Christoph Hillenbrand, said he did not know \u201chow we can cope\u201d, according to the Bild am Sonntag tabloid, which headlined its article \u201cMunich at the brink of collapse\u201d.Bavarian public television channel BR said the city \u201ccame very close to a humanitarian disaster\u201d, although authorities managed to limit the numbers of people sleeping on mattresses on the floor to just a few dozen, rather than the hundreds as earlier feared.Authorities are considering whether to open up the Olympiahalle \u2013 a stadium used for the 1972 Olympics which today serves as a concert hall or sports arena \u2013 as a temporary shelter for refugees.Refugees continued to move north through the Balkans in large numbers. Hungary reported another one-day record on Saturday, when 4,330 people entered the country.Further south, 28 people drowned after the boat they were on capsized off a Greek island; 98 were rescued.", "tags": ["Refugees", "Migration", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Hungary", "Greece"], "title": "Refugee crisis: Germany reaching its limit, say officials"},{"date": "2015-09-13T18:17:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany\u2019s decision to re-establish national border controls on its southern frontier with Austria deals a telling blow to two decades of open travel in the 26-nation bloc known as the Schengen area.The abrupt move to suspend Schengen arrangements along the 500-mile border with Austria will shock the rest of the EU and may spur it towards a more coherent strategy to deal with its migration crisis. Yet there will be little sympathy for Berlin from Hungary, Italy or Greece, which are bearing the brunt of the mass arrivals of people from Syria, Iraq, Eritrea and Afghanistan.The German decision came as EU interior ministers prepared to meet for a crucial session on the issue. There are deep splits over Brussels\u2019 campaign, backed by Berlin, to establish a new compulsory quota system to distribute asylum seekers across the EU on a more equitable basis.Thomas de Maizi\u00e8re, the German interior minister, announced that while Austria was the focus of the new border controls, all of Germany\u2019s borders would be affected. As the EU\u2019s biggest country straddling the union\u2019s geographical centre, Germany is the lynchpin of the Schengen system. It borders nine countries. Without Germany\u2019s participation, Schengen faces collapse.It was the second unilateral decision by the German government in a fortnight. Previously, without telling Brussels, Budapest or Vienna in advance, Berlin announced that given the concentration of refugees in Hungary it was waiving European rules known as the Dublin regulations, which stipulate that people must be registered and lodge their asylum applications in the first EU country they enter.The decision prompted a sudden surge into German of Syrians looking for safe haven. It elicited huge praise for Germany\u2019s humane approach, but ultimately it has proven unmanageable. Sunday\u2019s decision to suspend the open borders reverses that move.It will create a backlog of people in Austria and Hungary, with the latter also introducing a stiff new closed-borders regime, effectively criminalising most new arrivals as illegal migrants. Reports from a camp on the Hungarian-Serbian border at the weekend described a military operation, with helicopters constantly buzzing overhead and police and dogs patrolling a razor-wire border fence. A lack of running water and lavatories in the camp made for wretched conditions.Austria\u2019s chancellor, Werner Faymann, accused Hungary\u2019s hardline anti-immigrant government of Nazi-like activities. In northern Europe, Stockholm and Copenhagen traded barbs after the Danish authorities allowed refugees to leave for Sweden without proper documents.The acrimony in Scandinavia, central Europe and, increasingly, inside Germany itself sets the scene for recriminations when the interior ministers meet to ponder their options.\u201cMonday\u2019s extraordinary council of interior ministers is so important. We need swift progress on the commission\u2019s proposals now,\u201d said Jean-Claude Juncker, the European commission\u2019s president, after speaking to Angela Merkel on Sunday. \u201cThe objectives of our efforts must be to help ensure that we can go back to the normal Schengen system of open borders between Schengen member states as soon as feasible.\u201dBerlin is a keen supporter of the commission\u2019s scheme, but it is fiercely resisted in eastern and central Europe, where countries have little history of accommodating asylum seekers.The German decision to erect border controls may frighten the east Europeans into concessions, given that Schengen membership is one of the most highly prized aspects of EU membership for the former Soviet bloc countries, whose travel rights were severely restricted until 1989.Even the Hungarian prime minister, Viktor Orb\u00e1n, the most outspoken opponent of liberal immigration policies in the EU, has said that \u201cfor Hungarians, Schengen is freedom\u201d.The system, however, is under strain as never before. About 63,000 asylum seekers have entered Bavaria from Hungary and Austria this month, more than the total for all of last year. More than 12,000 arrived on Saturday and thousands more on Sunday.Sigmar Gabriel, the German vice-chancellor and Social Democrat leader, lambasted \u201cEuropean inaction\u201d on the crisis and said Germany had reached the limits of what it could do.De Maiziere said the border controls would stop people entering Germany without valid travel documents, putting the onus on transit countries to process them more consistently and piling the pressure on other EU countries before Monday\u2019s meeting.\u201cGermany is facing up to its responsibilities, but the burden has to be spread in solidarity,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Germany", "Refugees", "Migration", "Austria", "European Union", "European commission", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany border crackdown deals blow to Schengen system"},{"date": "2015-08-10T05:30:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "By Josie Le Blond, freelance journalist based in Berlin Leipzig is Germany\u2019s boom-town. Last year, the city\u2019s population went up by 12,000, a rise of 2% taking the number of residents over 550,000 for the first time since reunification. Many were newcomers arriving with dreams of a near-empty, artistic paradise, buzzing with a do-it-yourself entrepreneurial spirit. A place where almost anything is possible.There\u2019s plenty of room to do it. In the old western industrial quarter of Plagwitz, for example, rows of empty factories wait to be transformed into studios and exhibition spaces along the lines of the sprawling Baumwollspinnerei gallery complex, which this summer celebrates its 10th birthday. Western Leipzig\u2019s latest industrial metamorphosis is the Kunstkraftwerk. Once a crumbling, unsafe ruin, the former power station has been revamped into a mighty installation space now attracting experimental artists from all over the globe.But with all the recent buzz \u2013 referred to sardonically by locals as \u201chypezig\u201d \u2013 some areas are struggling to keep up with the pace of change. Plagwitz, long plugged as the beating heart of the city\u2019s underground art scene, is said to be losing some of its edge. \u201cPlagwitz has been the in area for years, but things have already moved on,\u201d says art project manager Angela Straube-Bornberg. She says those disillusioned with Plagwitz now look to the city\u2019s wilder, undeveloped eastern district. \u201cThe students all live there now. There are galleries and wild parties and projects everywhere.\u201dBehind the boarded-up shop fronts and pop-up galleries, clubs and cafes are perpetually opening up, and being shut down, sometimes within a matter of weeks.\u201cThere are a lot of empty buildings around here and rents are still cheap,\u201d says Noriko Minkus, co-founder of the Japanisches Haus, a \u201cpost-growth\u201d, not-for-profit community project on Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe, the district\u2019s core street. \u201cAll the young people starting projects makes it a really interesting area. But that means it will soon be under threat from gentrification, too.\u201dAlongside art exhibitions, concerts and readings, Minkus and her friends organise children\u2019s workshops and communal meals aimed at \u201cbottom-up international exchange\u201d \u2013 bringing the local students closer to the area\u2019s relatively large immigrant population.Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe is not everyone\u2019s idea of the perfect playground. The street is infamous in Germany as a crime hotspot, disturbing Leipzig\u2019s otherwise friendly, peaceful backwater vibe. But it\u2019s far from being dangerous compared with many global cities. If you visit the Japanisches Haus on a Saturday evening, you can join its VoK\u00fc or \u201cpeople\u2019s kitchen\u201d and, in exchange for a donation, share an informal, home-cooked meal with locals.By Stefan Kache, owner of Distillery, Leipzig\u2019s long-established techno clubTechno\u2019s still a big part of Leipzig\u2019s music scene. There are four main techno clubs here, including Distillery. The newest is the Institute f\u00fcr Zukunft, which opened about a year ago. Then in Plagwitz, there are Elipamanoke and the Damenhandschuhfabrik.The east has smaller spots like Ost Apotheke \u2013 a squat-cum-hostel with a club built in. Many clubs in the area don\u2019t even have a rental contract. People just help themselves to the empty buildings and get on with it. It\u2019s harder than it used to be for these places popping up, though. In the early 1990s we ran Distillery illegally for two and a half years in a factory we just took over. They\u2019d never last that long now. If you want live music, head to Plagwitz\u2019s Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe and look for the pubs, which often have bands playing. Westwerk, a gig venue in an old factory building, is a good place to try. Or down in Connewitz, there\u2019s Die Nato and Conne Island - both are cultural centres hosting gigs and other events.Leipzig has a certain buzz about it right now because of the really lively scene. The hype means the scene is growing more international. At Distillery, we still have our regulars, but we also hear a lot of different languages being spoken now. Leipzig\u2019s a much better place to live than it was. The city has a certain kind of magic about it which is hard to describe. It comes when you really live here and experience it for yourself.\u201dBy Diana Wernicke, events manager at The Market, a new monthly street food, vintage and design market held at T\u00e4ubchenthal, a converted factory in PlagwitzIt\u2019s best to jump on a bike and get out of the city centre, which is dominated by chain restaurants \u2013 there\u2019s no good reason to eat factory-made food when there\u2019s some little place just opened in Plagwitz making the same thing from scratch. One brand new place is Kaiserbad (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 93), a beer garden and restaurant serving traditional meals such as schnitzel, along with salads and burgers. It opened in mid-July in a fantastic location at the former Westwerk factory complex. Another new Plagwitz hotspot is Chumumi (Zschochersche Stra\u00dfe 50a) - a little Vietnamese place with great food and lovely decor. Choose from traditional Vietnamese soups (pho) or a wide variety of meat and fish dishes flavoured with peanuts, soy, Thai basil and ginger. It also has an extraordinary drinks menu \u2013 try the chrysanthemum and green sencha leaf tea with roasted soya beans.If you\u2019re vegan or vegetarian like me, you\u2019ve come to the right place. Leipzig was recently named Germany\u2019s most vegan-friendly city. Zest (Bornaische Stra\u00dfe 54) in the southern district of Connewitz is one of the city\u2019s oldest veggie/vegan restaurants and is well-known for its wines too. Choose from dishes such as shiitake seitan with polenta fries and lemon mirin mayonnaise or chanterelle mushroom and lovage ravioli with hazelnut tarator and cognac shallots.Or try the vegetarian Moroccan dishes at Salon Casablanca (no website) (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 47). Alongside tagines, it has exotic twists on European favourites such as spaghetti with Arabic tomato, courgette and pepper sauce served with sheep\u2019s cheese. If you\u2019re craving sugar afterwards, Caf\u00e9 Albert just along the street (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 74), makes fresh homemade cakes \u2013 on Thursdays they\u2019re vegan. This is one of many places here where local people have put their hearts and souls into making it work.Leipzig\u2019s a relaxed place and there\u2019s loads of space for creativity \u2013 things happen here which would be unthinkable elsewhere. Everyone\u2019s organising their own cultural events, little festivals, just doing it for themselves and for other locals. With The Market, we wanted to bring all those kinds of people together in one place so they could exchange ideas. We also wanted to broaden Leipzigers\u2019 culinary horizons. The stands are all run by the chefs themselves so they can talk directly to their customers about what they\u2019re eating. Like everywhere nowadays, the trend is towards locally and sustainably sourced ingredients. One of our stands sells pizza made from products grown at Annalinde, an urban gardening project here in Plagwitz.Street food markets, inspired by the ones in London, are taking the whole of Germany by storm right now, not just Leipzig. It started last year in Berlin and this summer has reached Munich and Hamburg. Now they\u2019re springing up all over the place. We wanted ours to be more like an event that people would hang around at after they\u2019d eaten. As well as art and design stalls, we\u2019ve got street artists, fire shows, DJs and bands in the evening. We\u2019re hoping people realise it\u2019s not all about shopping. They can relax and soak up the laid-back Leipzig atmosphere.By Candace Goodrich, a New Yorker who is art director at the Kunstkraftwerk in Plagwitz, a former heating plant transformed into an exhibition spaceHead east if you\u2019re looking for underground culture. They\u2019re doing some amazing things around Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe. They aren\u2019t established galleries, but I\u2019d say just go and discover, especially in the evening. There\u2019s interesting nightlife going on there too. Try this colour-coded map, which will give you an idea of various art projects in the east.In Plagwitz, visitors should go to the D21 gallery. It\u2019s part of the Lindenow artists\u2019 network, which recently helped kick the far-right NPD party out of its headquarters here. Then down on Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe, above a junk shop, you\u2019ll find Delikatessenhaus, a gallery showcasing the work of young graphic artists.For visitors to the city in October, there\u2019s the Designers\u2019 Open, a design fair with satellites throughout the city. But there aren\u2019t many designer boutiques in Leipzig \u2013 shopping\u2019s not really part of the lifestyle. At the weekend everyone\u2019s out in the park. That\u2019s confusing for tourists, though, wandering into neighbourhoods and seeing empty stores. It can be eerie walking down the street and finding no one\u2019s around. When I first moved here, I thought it was like being in a film the whole time. But space means if you want to start something, there\u2019s nothing stopping you. In other cities, New York say, it\u2019s expensive, highly competitive and the turnover rate is high, artists have to make their mark quickly. Here, someone just buys an old factory, renovates it and starts planning their exhibition programme.At Kunstkraftwerk, I\u2019m looking to inject some multiculturalism, which is still missing in the arts here. Despite all the hype, Leipzig\u2019s still a very German city, with a strong classical tradition. But our factory space here dominates the scene. Against that, only new, bold art forms really work. Over the next year, we\u2019ll be hosting installations, video, photography and large-scale sculpture by artists from all over the world. Related: Germany: Is Leipzig the new Berlin? There\u2019s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations \u2013 from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to share their favourite experiences and Instagram pictures of Leipzig. These are just a few, with more here:Angela Merkel\u2019s old student clubThere are lots of good restaurants and bars on Barfussg\u00e4sschen right by the Marktplatz. And nearby is the historic beer cellar Auerbachskeller. If you\u2019re feeling like going out and celebrating with local people, there are lots of places you can go. How about a beach party with fresh cocktails at the La Playa beach bar? Or dancing alongside Leipzig\u2019s beautiful people at Club L1? If you are into alternative or indie sounds, the right place to be would be surely Elsterartig, which has free admission. Visitors should also check out the cultural centre and former student club Moritzbastei, set up within historic vaults that were originally part of the old fortifications of Leipzig. When she was a student at Karl Marx university, chancellor Angela Merkel was among those who helped restore the structure to create a club for students.Andy SchulzeDo the Lokomotive stadiumThe Bruno-Plache-Stadion (nicknamed \u201cdas Bruno\u201d), in Probstheida, the home of the FC Lokomotive Leipzig football club, is a must-see for any football fan with its 93-year-old stand (kept almost as it was when it opened). The club was a European Cup Winner\u2019s Cup finalist in 1987, losing 0-1 to Ajax, and is well known for its UEFA Cup matches with the likes of Tottenham Hotspur, Wolverhampton Wanderers and Ipswich Town. The beer and bratwurst, fair prices and fair play will appeal to traditional football fans.Uwe Emmrich-Kie\u00dflingPuppet theatreWestfl\u00fcgel Lindenfels is located in the very arty west of the city at H\u00e4hnelstrasse 27, in Plagwitz. Neo Rauch\u2019s studio is just five minutes away and numerous galleries and cafes are dotted all over the area. The building houses Leipzig\u2019s foremost puppetry theatre with plays being put on nearly every week by Westfl\u00fcgel\u2019s own players or international ensembles. The building itself is full of character \u2013 it opened as a ballroom in 1900, and became a factory for decades thereafter and only narrowly escaped total desolation by being lovingly resurrected in the last 10 years. It is still inhabited by the character of lost places while coming to life on performance nights and every Friday as a cheap and cheerful bar with free concerts, impro theatre and great people. bluemelhTake a Trabant tourWe did a trip around Leipzig in a Trabant, the car that\u2019s such a symbol of the former East Germany, and with it you can do a fantastic city tour \u2013 much cooler than with a touristic bus. Leipzig is a great city and we had a nice time touring through with \u201cour\u201d Trabi.Dick SchiferliThrough the forest to the lakeThe Riverside Forest almost splits Leipzig in two, meaning that you can get from one end of the city to the other without using roads. Register with the public bike hire company Nextbike, get a map and plan a good hour to cycle through the woods to the lake Cospudener See, to the south of the city. The lake is good for swimming and has a cool harbour with restaurants. The cycle around the lake takes around 20 mins. If you are daring enough to get your kit off, there is the beautiful Sauna im See on the lake next to the harbour.Veraplums", "tags": ["Leipzig holidays", "Germany holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "City breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Art and design", "Culture"], "title": "The alternative city guide to Leipzig, Germany"},{"date": "2015-07-29T11:38:47Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Facebook has been told to allow people to use pseudonyms on its site by a German regulator, which has ruled that the site\u2019s \u201creal name\u201d policy violates the right to privacy.The Hamburg data protection authority said on Tuesday that the site could not force users to give official ID such as a passport or identity card, nor could it unilaterally change their chosen names to their \u201creal\u201d names on the site.Facebook\u2019s enforcement of its policy, which limits individuals to one account each and requires that those accounts be held under their real name, frequently results in accounts with suspected pseudonyms being locked by the company until the owner can prove their name, or even just the name being changed back by Facebook.Johannes Caspar, the Hamburg commissioner for data protection and freedom of information, said: \u201cAs in many other complaints against Facebook, this case demonstrates that the network wants to enforce the so-called real names policy with no regard to national legislation.\u201dHe added that the requirement to use a real name violates the rights, enshrined in German law, to use a pseudonym, while requests for digital copies of an official photo ID also contradict the passport and ID card law. In addition, he said that \u201cthe unauthorised modification of the pseudonym \u2026 blatantly violated the right to informational self-determination and constitutes a deliberate infringement of the Data Protection Act\u201d.Facebook has repeatedly clashed with European data regulators, arguing that it should only be bound by the decisions of the Irish data protection office, since its EU headquarters are based in that nation. In June, after the Belgian privacy commission took the company to court over user tracking, a Facebook spokesperson said that the privacy commissioner should have worked with them \u201cthrough a dialogue with us at Facebook Ireland and with our regulator, the Irish data protection commissioner\u201d.Caspar pre-emptively rejected that argument: \u201cIn this case, Facebook can not retreat to the position that the Irish Data Protection Act sets the standard here. Last year the ECJ blocked that position with case-law related to Google\u2019s search engine. Facebook has economic activity in Gemany with its branch in Hamburg. So: if you like our game, you must play by our rules.\u201dIn a statement, a Facebook spokesperson said: \u201cWe\u2019re disappointed Facebook\u2019s authentic name policy is being revisited, since German courts have reviewed it on multiple occasions and regulators have determined it fully complies with applicable European data protection law. The use of authentic names on Facebook protects people\u2019s privacy and safety by ensuring people know who they\u2019re sharing and connecting with.\u201dFacebook\u2019s real name policy has long been one of the most controversial rules on the site. In February, the site was accused of discrimination after a number of Native American activists reported having their accounts suspended or names changed to match European norms. Dana Lone Hill argued that: \u201cKaty Perry\u2019s Left Shark from her Super Bowl halftime show has a Facebook page and we have to prove who we are.\u201dThe policy hit the headlines again in June after Zip, a trans former Facebook employee who was instrumental in introducing the company\u2019s custom gender feature, was required to \u201cprove\u201d her name to the company \u2013 the same name that had been on her name badge while she worked for Facebook.\u201cWe use names that don\u2019t match our ID on Facebook for safety, or because we\u2019re trans, or because we\u2019re just straight up not known by our legal names,\u201d Zip wrote. \u201cHaving chosen its policy, Facebook has to enforce it. And because its policy attempts to hammer the reality of names into a constrained model they end up having to make a trade-off in the edge cases. Some people are not allowed to use their names so that everyone else\u2019s can be enforced.\u201d", "tags": ["Facebook", "Technology", "Germany", "Social networking", "World news", "Media", "Europe"], "title": "Germany fights Facebook over real names policy"},{"date": "2015-07-22T16:55:14Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Political Berlin feels emotional right now. A high-level German politician put it this way to me recently: \u201cIt\u2019s like a whole hysteria going on here. The Berlin political world is emotional all the time. It has to stop, but I don\u2019t know how. The anger is on the left, it\u2019s on the right.\u201d The historian Jacob Soll touched on this outpouring of emotion as it relates to Greece in a column in the New York Times last week, and his conclusion is that Germans must regain their cool if they want to lead Europe.He is right, but he is skipping a step. Germans cannot regain their cool until they reduce the outrage they feel towards Greece, which they perceive as the guilty partner in their eurozone marriage. To do this, both nations must engage an impartial, outside mediator to help them mitigate the outrage they feel towards each other. In a structured, therapy-like setting, relevant policymakers from both sides would then finally be able to sit together and create a shared vision to wrest Greece from its economic depression. Related: Why is Germany so tough on Greece? Look back 25 years | Dirk Laabs Outrage-mitigation mediation works in situations where activists and corporations find themselves at loggerheads. Ideally, corporations and their critics commit to sitting together in a room and sharing their dilemmas \u2013 to actually explaining their positions in the safe space created by the mediators.The chief executive of a corporation that has flouted environmental laws might say something like: \u201cYou activists just don\u2019t get it. This pollution is not that bad. It creates X amount of jobs and it allows us to earn Y amount of profit. We can then pay Z taxes and thereby fulfil our role in society.\u201dThe activists might reply: \u201cWe won\u2019t accept that logic, because \u2013 aside from the fact that you\u2019re ruining the environment, perhaps with the tacit acceptance of regulators whom you\u2019ve bought off \u2013 your pollution is just shifting the cost of your business to society, which has to deal with all of these sick and/or dead people. But, OK, we get that your business has an economic purpose, so if you stop polluting and move to another model, we will mobilise our base and our leadership to support you.\u201dGermany can look to its own transformation away from nuclear power to renewables as an example here. This process, accelerated after Fukushima, saw anti-nuclear activists, politicians and the power industry jointly define the vision for the future state of Germany\u2019s energy supply. Since everyone has bought into the vision, activists and industry stand eagerly behind the transformation. In fact, buy-in for this green movement has become so widespread that it has become part of Germany\u2019s national identity.Seen in this light, last week\u2019s deal imposing a 77% VAT increase \u2013 from 13% to 23% \u2013 and other punitive measures on Greece are bound to fail: not only because they would seem to contradict a century of economic theory, but also because neither Germany nor Greece has bought into them. Everyone hates this deal.Germany feels it is being asked for a gift at the end of a gun, sinking money into a country that will never actually pay it back and that it does not perceive as critical for its national and economic security. Greece is outraged that more austerity will further lower its standard of living, and it is tired of being called lazy and inept by Europe\u2019s de facto hegemonic power.An impartial mediating team could help treat the emotion and lower the outrageThe finance ministers Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble and Euclid Tsakalotos must lead their staffs in committing to outrage mitigation under mediation. This is imperative because functionaries from both governments are, sadly, pushing their negative emotion out into their nations\u2019 media. And Greek and German media are in turn whipping up the kind of populist sentiment that is manifesting itself as anti-Greece protests in front of the Bundestag or Angela Merkel Hitler posters in Athens. The toxicity of the debate has reached fever pitch on both sides.An impartial mediating team \u2013 comprising \u201cmiddle power\u201d diplomats supported by a consultancy specialising in outrage mitigation \u2013 could help treat the emotion and lower the outrage. Once this is done, policymakers in Athens and Berlin will be in a position to draft a shared vision for what a successful future state looks like and how it can be achieved.Until this happens, we will see the perpetuation of a crisis in which Germans become angrier, Greeks poorer and other Europeans doubtful of the resilience of the European Union project.", "tags": ["Greece", "Germany", "Eurozone crisis", "Eurozone", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Euro", "Economics", "Europe", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Germany and Greece need a mediator | Michael Scaturro"},{"date": "2015-07-01T19:08:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Matthew Evans has got his argument backwards (Bergen-Belsen was a German atrocity, Letters, 30 June). Everyone \u201cwho cares about the Holocaust and historical accuracy\u201d needs to distinguish between the Nazis and \u201cthe Germans\u201d precisely because explanations of the Holocaust must grasp its political causes, and not rely on lazy \u2013 and in fact racist \u2013 equations of nazism with Germany. Hundreds of thousands of Germans, including political opponents of nazism, victims of the so-called euthanasia programme and Jewish Germans were murdered by the Nazis, who knew very well the difference between themselves and the kind of Germans they aspired to fashion. Some of these Germans died in Bergen-Belsen. Evans insults their memory, as well as doing a massive disservice to the principles of accuracy he claims to honour.Jane CaplanEmeritus professor of modern European history, University of Oxford Related: Bergen-Belsen was a German atrocity, not just a Nazi one | Letters \u2022 We know why the Guardian and others describe atrocities in the second world war as Nazi rather than German. It is to distinguish between Germany under National Socialism and the democratic, open Germany that has so remarkably emerged from that war and then the cold war, and which has done much to face its Nazi past. The alternative may achieve narrow historical exactitude, but that is outweighed by its possible connotations of collective historical guilt, itself one of the elements in the Nazi demonising of the Jewish people. This is not \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d (in any case an imprecise, catch-all term) but responsible discourse.Canon Robert TitleyRector, Richmond team ministry, diocese of Southwark\u2022 I would agree with Matthew Evans that German nationalism was part of what made my mother a young widow in 1944. However, with the perspective of history, I would now focus on the ideology which uncaged that beast. That sort of ideology is the real enemy, and it is not exclusively German. It stalks the corridors of power in every nation, seeking out those who do not at first recognise it for what it is, or (much worse) believe foolishly that it can be controlled. From my perspective I do not see a focus on the Nazi ideology as \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d: I see it as political clarity of vision.Roger WilsonBillingshurst, West Sussex\u2022 Of the many Germans I knew before the war, several lost their lives fighting the Nazis in Germany. Would the noble lord have placed his head on the line fighting them if the fascists had taken over in Britain? In the last free elections before the Nazis seized power, the socialist/communist vote was greater than the vote for the Nazis. No wonder the Nazis came for them well before they came for the Jews, and, of course, many of those who opposed them at the risk of torture and death were also Jewish. Is Lord Evans prepared to accept responsibility for the atrocities committed by Britain in its empire, especially in India? It is a gross insult to the many thousands of Germans who opposed the Nazis actively to hold them reponsible for the concentration camps.Len GoldmanBrighton Related: Nazis, Germans and cold war propaganda | Letter from John Wilson \u2022 Having grown up in a country where historical guilt is done to excess, we Huns were most most certainly in need of Matthew Evans\u2019 wisdom \u2013 as I\u2019m sure were you Brits, given that TV here only shows a programme dealing with the Nazis every other day.Anke NeibigNewcastle upon Tyne\u2022 That the Guardian does not in the first instance call the Nazi camps \u201cGerman\u201d is not a sign of \u201cworrying political correctness\u201d. In its methods, the Holocaust relied upon those of European industrialisation and colonialism. In its ideology, it was an expression of millennia of European antisemitism. Only Nazis believed there was something specially German about their undertaking. The camps were Nazi.I was at the Jewish Museum with the German School last week and we were taught how some orthodox Jews may have separate kitchens for meat and dairy products. I thought about Ed Miliband: didn\u2019t we have a good laugh about his nose! And his ability to eat bacon! And now we find he had two kitchens! And then I got to thinking about his act of primal treachery; and about his immigrant father who hated Britain; and about his plan to stab Britain in the back (the same impulse was evident in the Dolchstosslegende in the Weimar Republic \u2013 the legend that the war was lost because of treacherous Jews). When I asked staff at the museum what they thought about the treatment of Miliband, they said they thought it was obviously antisemitic but they didn\u2019t make a fuss about it because it would just make things worse.No one seems to say much about it though. Why? Because real antisemitism is something those evil Germans did? In any case, one danger we shouldn\u2019t be overly concerned with is \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d.George HowardRichmond, Surrey\u2022 I share Matthew Evans\u2019 concern about the trend for creating an imagined community of \u201cNazis\u201d where German atrocities can safely be compartmentalised away from the troubling reality of national complicity in cruelty. In 1904, before the Nazis came to power, Germany exterminated 80% of the Herero tribe in Namibia \u2013 60,000 people \u2013 and embarked on a horrific project of human experimentation on tribal survivors that was later resumed against Europeans in second world war death camps.But Evans\u2019 letter also follows the dominant trend of referring only to Jewish victims and replaces the postwar reference to \u201cGerman crimes against humanity\u201d with the word Holocaust \u2013 sometimes Shoah. This might be an understandable emphasis if one is Jewish but it does thereby exclude the full spectrum of victims.Nazi electoral success owed a great deal to the scapegoating of a generation of black mixed-race Germans \u2013 known nationally and in Mein Kampf as Rhineland Bastards. Mein Kampf also gives them the label \u201chalf-apes\u201d. Some populist histories chose to forget they were persecuted, along with homosexuals, the disabled, Gypsies, trade unionists and leftists. Huge numbers of Poles and millions of captured Russians were also killed in camps.Dr Gavin LewisManchester", "tags": ["Second world war", "Germany", "Europe", "Adolf Hitler", "World news", "The far right", "Holocaust"], "title": "The Nazis, Germany and lazy equations | Letters"},{"date": "2015-09-29T15:46:52Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Most refugees have already defied the odds by the time they arrive in Europe, having typically undertaken perilous journeys across land and sea. But once they have reached Germany they are not out of danger, according to mushroom experts and doctors, who warn record numbers of people are becoming ill after eating poisonous mushrooms.A leading German toxicologist has said poisonings are at an all-time high owing to the large number of newcomers foraging for mushrooms and mistaking those they find for varieties found in their homelands.Prof Siegmar Berndt, thead toxicologist of the German Mycological Society, said he had never come across so many cases. \u201cIn my 70-year lifespan there have never been so many mushroom poisonings as there have been so far this year,\u201d he told the Guardian.\u201cMost of the victims are refugees and asylum-seekers who have already arrived in Germany, mainly from Syria.\u201dIn addition to whole families who headed into the woodland close to their refugee shelters to forage for mushrooms, and took pleasure in finding something they appeared to know from their countries of origin, there were groups of men looking for alternative ways to spend their time who had fallen victim to toxic mushroom varieties.\u201cIt\u2019s largely young men who are bored. They go for a walk in the woods, pick the mushrooms and consume them after frying them,\u201d Berndt said. \u201cIt\u2019s tragic, particularly when you consider the journeys they\u2019ve already endured to get here.\u201d In the first two weeks of September alone, there have been more than 40 reported cases of poisonings, mainly linked to thedeath cap mushroom, Amanita phalloides. The fungus is responsible for 90% of all mushroom poisoning. One or two cases in a season would be the norm. But Berndt believes the real figure could be much higher. \u201cThere is no obligation for people to report cases of poisoning in Germany, so I suspect there have been lots of other cases that have gone unreported,\u201d he said. With the three-month mushroom season only about halfway gone, more cases are expected.The poisonings include 30 in Hannover and a further 10 in M\u00fcnster, including a 16-year-old boy who died after a replacement liver could not be found in time to save him. Another Syrian is in a critical condition and awaiting a suitable liver.Experts believe that the victims mistook the death caps for the bearded Amanita, which is not found in Germany but grows in the Mediterranean area. Related: Refugees welcome? How UK and Germany compare on migration In response to the high number of incidents, doctors at Hannover Medical School have formulated a poster that has been distributed to refugee shelters across Germany in eight languages.It warns against collecting and consuming the fungus, which it says has no repellant taste and the first symptoms occur only after several hours.\u201cA mushroom you regard from your homeland as a delicious edible mushroom could be deadly here, although they look similar,\u201d it states, urging anyone who has eaten one to seek hospital help, and to take any remains, or any vomit, with them, in order to help determine the cause of the poisoning.\u201cWith the mushroom season still having some way to go, if we can reach people with this message, we really have the chance to save lives,\u201d said Stefan Zorn, spokesman for the hospital.Spikes in mushroom-poisoning cases have previously been linked to the arrival of refugees. In the late 90s there were several incidents of Kosovans being poisoned, and, in the early 90s, of ethnic Germans from Russia.Often the victims are reluctant to present themselves in hospital for fear of getting into trouble for stealing.The death cap mushroom, once consumed, can quickly lead to liver and kidney malfunction owing to the amatoxin it contains. As small an amount as half a mushroom can be fatal.\u201cBut it can take up to three days for the symptoms \u2013 including vomiting and diarrhoea \u2013 to appear, by which time someone\u2019s liver might have been destroyed,\u201d said Kerstin Aretz, from Dresden, who, like Berndt, is one of more than 1,000 registered mushroom experts throughout Germany, to whom mushroom pickers can turn with queries about whether their spoils are edible or not.", "tags": ["Germany", "Fungi", "Refugees", "Biology", "Migration", "Food & drink", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany attributes spike in mushroom poisonings to foraging refugees"},{"date": "2015-09-13T14:29:13Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany and its second city, Munich, are reaching the limit of their capacity in the face of the biggest refugee influx since the second world war, senior officials have said.The economy minister, Sigmar Gabriel, said in a newspaper interview on Sunday that Germany was reaching its limit as thousands of refugees continue to stream across its borders every day.  Related: How much longer can Germany keep its doors open to refugees? \u201cIt\u2019s true. The European lack of action in the refugee crisis is now pushing even Germany to the limit of its ability,\u201d he said in an interview published on Der Tagesspiegel\u2019s website. The German government is expecting 800,000 new arrivals this year. On Saturday, about 13,000 arrived in Munich alone.Earlier, a police official in Munich said: \u201cGiven the numbers from yesterday, it is very clear that we have reached the upper limit of our capacity.\u201dThe president of the Upper Bavaria region, Christoph Hillenbrand, said he did not know \u201chow we can cope\u201d, according to the Bild am Sonntag tabloid, which headlined its article \u201cMunich at the brink of collapse\u201d.Bavarian public television channel BR said the city \u201ccame very close to a humanitarian disaster\u201d, although authorities managed to limit the numbers of people sleeping on mattresses on the floor to just a few dozen, rather than the hundreds as earlier feared.Authorities are considering whether to open up the Olympiahalle \u2013 a stadium used for the 1972 Olympics which today serves as a concert hall or sports arena \u2013 as a temporary shelter for refugees.Refugees continued to move north through the Balkans in large numbers. Hungary reported another one-day record on Saturday, when 4,330 people entered the country.Further south, 28 people drowned after the boat they were on capsized off a Greek island; 98 were rescued.", "tags": ["Refugees", "Migration", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Hungary", "Greece"], "title": "Refugee crisis: Germany reaching its limit, say officials"},{"date": "2015-09-13T18:17:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany\u2019s decision to re-establish national border controls on its southern frontier with Austria deals a telling blow to two decades of open travel in the 26-nation bloc known as the Schengen area.The abrupt move to suspend Schengen arrangements along the 500-mile border with Austria will shock the rest of the EU and may spur it towards a more coherent strategy to deal with its migration crisis. Yet there will be little sympathy for Berlin from Hungary, Italy or Greece, which are bearing the brunt of the mass arrivals of people from Syria, Iraq, Eritrea and Afghanistan.The German decision came as EU interior ministers prepared to meet for a crucial session on the issue. There are deep splits over Brussels\u2019 campaign, backed by Berlin, to establish a new compulsory quota system to distribute asylum seekers across the EU on a more equitable basis.Thomas de Maizi\u00e8re, the German interior minister, announced that while Austria was the focus of the new border controls, all of Germany\u2019s borders would be affected. As the EU\u2019s biggest country straddling the union\u2019s geographical centre, Germany is the lynchpin of the Schengen system. It borders nine countries. Without Germany\u2019s participation, Schengen faces collapse.It was the second unilateral decision by the German government in a fortnight. Previously, without telling Brussels, Budapest or Vienna in advance, Berlin announced that given the concentration of refugees in Hungary it was waiving European rules known as the Dublin regulations, which stipulate that people must be registered and lodge their asylum applications in the first EU country they enter.The decision prompted a sudden surge into German of Syrians looking for safe haven. It elicited huge praise for Germany\u2019s humane approach, but ultimately it has proven unmanageable. Sunday\u2019s decision to suspend the open borders reverses that move.It will create a backlog of people in Austria and Hungary, with the latter also introducing a stiff new closed-borders regime, effectively criminalising most new arrivals as illegal migrants. Reports from a camp on the Hungarian-Serbian border at the weekend described a military operation, with helicopters constantly buzzing overhead and police and dogs patrolling a razor-wire border fence. A lack of running water and lavatories in the camp made for wretched conditions.Austria\u2019s chancellor, Werner Faymann, accused Hungary\u2019s hardline anti-immigrant government of Nazi-like activities. In northern Europe, Stockholm and Copenhagen traded barbs after the Danish authorities allowed refugees to leave for Sweden without proper documents.The acrimony in Scandinavia, central Europe and, increasingly, inside Germany itself sets the scene for recriminations when the interior ministers meet to ponder their options.\u201cMonday\u2019s extraordinary council of interior ministers is so important. We need swift progress on the commission\u2019s proposals now,\u201d said Jean-Claude Juncker, the European commission\u2019s president, after speaking to Angela Merkel on Sunday. \u201cThe objectives of our efforts must be to help ensure that we can go back to the normal Schengen system of open borders between Schengen member states as soon as feasible.\u201dBerlin is a keen supporter of the commission\u2019s scheme, but it is fiercely resisted in eastern and central Europe, where countries have little history of accommodating asylum seekers.The German decision to erect border controls may frighten the east Europeans into concessions, given that Schengen membership is one of the most highly prized aspects of EU membership for the former Soviet bloc countries, whose travel rights were severely restricted until 1989.Even the Hungarian prime minister, Viktor Orb\u00e1n, the most outspoken opponent of liberal immigration policies in the EU, has said that \u201cfor Hungarians, Schengen is freedom\u201d.The system, however, is under strain as never before. About 63,000 asylum seekers have entered Bavaria from Hungary and Austria this month, more than the total for all of last year. More than 12,000 arrived on Saturday and thousands more on Sunday.Sigmar Gabriel, the German vice-chancellor and Social Democrat leader, lambasted \u201cEuropean inaction\u201d on the crisis and said Germany had reached the limits of what it could do.De Maiziere said the border controls would stop people entering Germany without valid travel documents, putting the onus on transit countries to process them more consistently and piling the pressure on other EU countries before Monday\u2019s meeting.\u201cGermany is facing up to its responsibilities, but the burden has to be spread in solidarity,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Germany", "Refugees", "Migration", "Austria", "European Union", "European commission", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany border crackdown deals blow to Schengen system"},{"date": "2015-09-13T17:13:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany introduced border controls on Sunday, and dramatically halted all train traffic with Austria, after the country\u2019s regions said they could no longer cope with the overwhelming number of refugees entering the country.Interior minister, Thomas de Maizi\u00e8re, announced the measures after German officials said record numbers of refugees, most of them from Syria, had stretched the system to breaking point. \u201cThis step has become necessary,\u201d he told a press conference in Berlin, adding it would cause disruption.Asylum seekers must understand \u201cthey cannot choose the states where they are seeking protection,\u201d he told reporters.All trains between Austria and Bavaria, the principal conduit through which 450,000 refugees have arrived in Germany this year, ceased at 5pm Berlin time. Only EU citizens and others with valid documents would be allowed to pass through Germany\u2019s borders, de Maizi\u00e8re said.The decision means that Germany has effectively exited temporarily from the Schengen system. It is likely to lead to chaotic scenes on the Austrian-German border, as tens of thousands of refugees try to enter Germany by any means possible and set up camp next to it. German police began patrolling road crossing points with Austria at 5.30pm on Sunday. These checks may be rolled out to the borders with Poland and the Czech Republic. Chancellor Angela Merkel agreed the details in a conference call on Saturday with her Social Democrat coalition partners. The Czech Republic said separately that it would boost controls on its border with Austria.The emergency measures are designed to give respite to Germany\u2019s federal states who are responsible for looking after refugees. There is also discussion inside the government about sending troops to the road and rail borders with Austria to reinforce security, Der Spiegel reported.The move comes amid extraordinary scenes at Munich\u2019s main train station over the weekend and a growing backlash inside Germany over the decision last week by Merkel, to allow unregistered refugees to enter the country. The numbers exceeded all expectations.On Saturday, 13,015 refugees arrived at the station on trains from Austria. Another 1,400 came on Sunday morning. The city\u2019s mayor, Dieter Reiter, said Munich was \u201cfull\u201d, with its capacities completely exhausted. Some refugees slept on the station concourse on Saturday night. Germany\u2019s stunning ad hoc move sets the stage for a bitter showdown on Monday at a meeting of EU interior ministers in Brussels. Hungary\u2019s president Viktor Orb\u00e1n welcomed the decision and said it would protect \u201cGerman and European values\u201d. He and other east European leaders are insisting they will not accept a plan set out last week by the European commission chief Jean-Claude Juncker for mandatory refugee quotas. De Maizi\u00e8re said Germany had reintroduced border controls for reasons of security but added pointedly that they were also \u201ca signal to Europe\u201d. Germany, Austria and France support Juncker\u2019s proposal which would see 160,000 asylum seekers shared out across all 28 EU states. The refugees would be allocated to each country on the basis of its size and wealth. Related: How much longer can Germany keep its doors open to refugees? There has been implacable opposition from other EU states including Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland and Romania. On Sunday, the Czech prime minister, Bohuslav Sobotka, said: \u201cI think it is impossible to retreat. Our position is firm.\u201dPreviously Orb\u00e1n has blamed Berlin for the crisis, and Merkel\u2019s decision to open Germany\u2019s borders. Budapest is racing to complete a fence on its border with Serbia, where 4,330 people crossed on Saturday. On Tuesday, it introduces tough laws which make crossing the border punishable with jail.\u201cThese migrants are not coming our way from war zones but from camps in Syria\u2019s neighbours. So these people are not fleeing danger and don\u2019t need to be scared for their lives,\u201d Orb\u00e1n told Germany\u2019s Bild newspaper. European leaders were \u201cliving in a dream world\u201d.Orb\u00e1n\u2019s hardline populist stance has exasperated his neighbours. Austria\u2019s chancellor, Werner Faymann, said Hungary\u2019s harsh treatment of refugees was reminiscent of the second world war. \u201cPiling refugees on trains in the hopes that they go far, far away brings back memories of the darkest period of our continent,\u201d he told Der Spiegel.Faymann suggested that if no consensus was reached on Monday in Brussels, Germany and its allies could try to force through a vote on quotas with a qualified majority.  Related: 'There have to be limits': mixed feelings from Germans over refugees He said Austria and Germany \u2013 both net contributors to the EU budget \u2013 would consider sanctions against countries stubbornly refusing to share the refugee burden. This might include axing some EU structural funds from which \u201ceast European states profit most of all\u201d. As well as quotas, Juncker\u2019s proposal includes establishing hotspots at EU frontiers, including Greece and Italy, where refugees can be registered under a unitary system.The UN\u2019s refugee agency, the UNHCR, called on the EU to avoid fragmenting into a patchwork of countries with different border rules, which would plunge thousands of refugees into \u201clegal limbo\u201d. Decisions by a meeting of EU interior ministers on Monday would be \u201ceven more critical\u201d, the agency said.Greek authorities said on Sunday that 28 people drowned, half of them children, when their wooden smuggling boat capsized in the Aegean sea. The incident happened before dawn off the Greek island of Farmakonisi. The Greek coastguard pulled 68 people out of the water. Another 30 managed to swim to land.Germany\u2019s federal regions, meanwhile, have said that they are struggling to cope with an unprecedented human influx. Berlin\u2019s city government has commandeered two sports halls next to the Olympic stadium to house new arrivals. It is considering making use of a velodrome, empty hangars in a trade fair building and the Tempelhof airport.The CSU, the Bavarian sister party to Merkel\u2019s Christian Democrat CDU, has accused the chancellor of making an \u201cunparalleled historical mistake\u201d in opening Germany\u2019s borders. On Sunday, Christoph Hillenband, the president of Upper Bavaria, said the system for dealing with refugees was close to collapse, with 63,000 people arriving in Munich since late August.Dedicated trains were now taking refugees north to other parts of Germany, with regular passengers shunted on to alternative services. \u201cIt\u2019s not feasible for us to take in the equivalent of a small town\u2019s population every day. It\u2019s simply not doable logistically any more,\u201d Hillenbrand said.Mustafa Alomar, a refugee from Manbej, near Aleppo in Syria, said he had sympathy with Europeans who said the refugee crisis was not their problem, but added: \u201cIf you stay in Syria you will be killed. That\u2019s true regardless of whether you are poor, middle class or rich.\u201d Alomar, a former student of English literature at Aleppo University, is living at a refugee hostel in Berlin, while his familyis in a camp in Syria near the Turkish border. He said three of his friends drowned after their boat from Libya to Italy sank. He was the only one who survived. \u201cWe are not angels or Satan. We are simply human beings,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Migration", "Hungary", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Refugees", "Greece", "European Union", "Austria"], "title": "Refugee crisis: Germany reinstates controls at Austrian border"},{"date": "2015-08-10T05:30:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "By Josie Le Blond, freelance journalist based in Berlin Leipzig is Germany\u2019s boom-town. Last year, the city\u2019s population went up by 12,000, a rise of 2% taking the number of residents over 550,000 for the first time since reunification. Many were newcomers arriving with dreams of a near-empty, artistic paradise, buzzing with a do-it-yourself entrepreneurial spirit. A place where almost anything is possible.There\u2019s plenty of room to do it. In the old western industrial quarter of Plagwitz, for example, rows of empty factories wait to be transformed into studios and exhibition spaces along the lines of the sprawling Baumwollspinnerei gallery complex, which this summer celebrates its 10th birthday. Western Leipzig\u2019s latest industrial metamorphosis is the Kunstkraftwerk. Once a crumbling, unsafe ruin, the former power station has been revamped into a mighty installation space now attracting experimental artists from all over the globe.But with all the recent buzz \u2013 referred to sardonically by locals as \u201chypezig\u201d \u2013 some areas are struggling to keep up with the pace of change. Plagwitz, long plugged as the beating heart of the city\u2019s underground art scene, is said to be losing some of its edge. \u201cPlagwitz has been the in area for years, but things have already moved on,\u201d says art project manager Angela Straube-Bornberg. She says those disillusioned with Plagwitz now look to the city\u2019s wilder, undeveloped eastern district. \u201cThe students all live there now. There are galleries and wild parties and projects everywhere.\u201dBehind the boarded-up shop fronts and pop-up galleries, clubs and cafes are perpetually opening up, and being shut down, sometimes within a matter of weeks.\u201cThere are a lot of empty buildings around here and rents are still cheap,\u201d says Noriko Minkus, co-founder of the Japanisches Haus, a \u201cpost-growth\u201d, not-for-profit community project on Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe, the district\u2019s core street. \u201cAll the young people starting projects makes it a really interesting area. But that means it will soon be under threat from gentrification, too.\u201dAlongside art exhibitions, concerts and readings, Minkus and her friends organise children\u2019s workshops and communal meals aimed at \u201cbottom-up international exchange\u201d \u2013 bringing the local students closer to the area\u2019s relatively large immigrant population.Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe is not everyone\u2019s idea of the perfect playground. The street is infamous in Germany as a crime hotspot, disturbing Leipzig\u2019s otherwise friendly, peaceful backwater vibe. But it\u2019s far from being dangerous compared with many global cities. If you visit the Japanisches Haus on a Saturday evening, you can join its VoK\u00fc or \u201cpeople\u2019s kitchen\u201d and, in exchange for a donation, share an informal, home-cooked meal with locals.By Stefan Kache, owner of Distillery, Leipzig\u2019s long-established techno clubTechno\u2019s still a big part of Leipzig\u2019s music scene. There are four main techno clubs here, including Distillery. The newest is the Institute f\u00fcr Zukunft, which opened about a year ago. Then in Plagwitz, there are Elipamanoke and the Damenhandschuhfabrik.The east has smaller spots like Ost Apotheke \u2013 a squat-cum-hostel with a club built in. Many clubs in the area don\u2019t even have a rental contract. People just help themselves to the empty buildings and get on with it. It\u2019s harder than it used to be for these places popping up, though. In the early 1990s we ran Distillery illegally for two and a half years in a factory we just took over. They\u2019d never last that long now. If you want live music, head to Plagwitz\u2019s Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe and look for the pubs, which often have bands playing. Westwerk, a gig venue in an old factory building, is a good place to try. Or down in Connewitz, there\u2019s Die Nato and Conne Island - both are cultural centres hosting gigs and other events.Leipzig has a certain buzz about it right now because of the really lively scene. The hype means the scene is growing more international. At Distillery, we still have our regulars, but we also hear a lot of different languages being spoken now. Leipzig\u2019s a much better place to live than it was. The city has a certain kind of magic about it which is hard to describe. It comes when you really live here and experience it for yourself.\u201dBy Diana Wernicke, events manager at The Market, a new monthly street food, vintage and design market held at T\u00e4ubchenthal, a converted factory in PlagwitzIt\u2019s best to jump on a bike and get out of the city centre, which is dominated by chain restaurants \u2013 there\u2019s no good reason to eat factory-made food when there\u2019s some little place just opened in Plagwitz making the same thing from scratch. One brand new place is Kaiserbad (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 93), a beer garden and restaurant serving traditional meals such as schnitzel, along with salads and burgers. It opened in mid-July in a fantastic location at the former Westwerk factory complex. Another new Plagwitz hotspot is Chumumi (Zschochersche Stra\u00dfe 50a) - a little Vietnamese place with great food and lovely decor. Choose from traditional Vietnamese soups (pho) or a wide variety of meat and fish dishes flavoured with peanuts, soy, Thai basil and ginger. It also has an extraordinary drinks menu \u2013 try the chrysanthemum and green sencha leaf tea with roasted soya beans.If you\u2019re vegan or vegetarian like me, you\u2019ve come to the right place. Leipzig was recently named Germany\u2019s most vegan-friendly city. Zest (Bornaische Stra\u00dfe 54) in the southern district of Connewitz is one of the city\u2019s oldest veggie/vegan restaurants and is well-known for its wines too. Choose from dishes such as shiitake seitan with polenta fries and lemon mirin mayonnaise or chanterelle mushroom and lovage ravioli with hazelnut tarator and cognac shallots.Or try the vegetarian Moroccan dishes at Salon Casablanca (no website) (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 47). Alongside tagines, it has exotic twists on European favourites such as spaghetti with Arabic tomato, courgette and pepper sauce served with sheep\u2019s cheese. If you\u2019re craving sugar afterwards, Caf\u00e9 Albert just along the street (Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe 74), makes fresh homemade cakes \u2013 on Thursdays they\u2019re vegan. This is one of many places here where local people have put their hearts and souls into making it work.Leipzig\u2019s a relaxed place and there\u2019s loads of space for creativity \u2013 things happen here which would be unthinkable elsewhere. Everyone\u2019s organising their own cultural events, little festivals, just doing it for themselves and for other locals. With The Market, we wanted to bring all those kinds of people together in one place so they could exchange ideas. We also wanted to broaden Leipzigers\u2019 culinary horizons. The stands are all run by the chefs themselves so they can talk directly to their customers about what they\u2019re eating. Like everywhere nowadays, the trend is towards locally and sustainably sourced ingredients. One of our stands sells pizza made from products grown at Annalinde, an urban gardening project here in Plagwitz.Street food markets, inspired by the ones in London, are taking the whole of Germany by storm right now, not just Leipzig. It started last year in Berlin and this summer has reached Munich and Hamburg. Now they\u2019re springing up all over the place. We wanted ours to be more like an event that people would hang around at after they\u2019d eaten. As well as art and design stalls, we\u2019ve got street artists, fire shows, DJs and bands in the evening. We\u2019re hoping people realise it\u2019s not all about shopping. They can relax and soak up the laid-back Leipzig atmosphere.By Candace Goodrich, a New Yorker who is art director at the Kunstkraftwerk in Plagwitz, a former heating plant transformed into an exhibition spaceHead east if you\u2019re looking for underground culture. They\u2019re doing some amazing things around Eisenbahnstra\u00dfe. They aren\u2019t established galleries, but I\u2019d say just go and discover, especially in the evening. There\u2019s interesting nightlife going on there too. Try this colour-coded map, which will give you an idea of various art projects in the east.In Plagwitz, visitors should go to the D21 gallery. It\u2019s part of the Lindenow artists\u2019 network, which recently helped kick the far-right NPD party out of its headquarters here. Then down on Karl-Heine-Stra\u00dfe, above a junk shop, you\u2019ll find Delikatessenhaus, a gallery showcasing the work of young graphic artists.For visitors to the city in October, there\u2019s the Designers\u2019 Open, a design fair with satellites throughout the city. But there aren\u2019t many designer boutiques in Leipzig \u2013 shopping\u2019s not really part of the lifestyle. At the weekend everyone\u2019s out in the park. That\u2019s confusing for tourists, though, wandering into neighbourhoods and seeing empty stores. It can be eerie walking down the street and finding no one\u2019s around. When I first moved here, I thought it was like being in a film the whole time. But space means if you want to start something, there\u2019s nothing stopping you. In other cities, New York say, it\u2019s expensive, highly competitive and the turnover rate is high, artists have to make their mark quickly. Here, someone just buys an old factory, renovates it and starts planning their exhibition programme.At Kunstkraftwerk, I\u2019m looking to inject some multiculturalism, which is still missing in the arts here. Despite all the hype, Leipzig\u2019s still a very German city, with a strong classical tradition. But our factory space here dominates the scene. Against that, only new, bold art forms really work. Over the next year, we\u2019ll be hosting installations, video, photography and large-scale sculpture by artists from all over the world. Related: Germany: Is Leipzig the new Berlin? There\u2019s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations \u2013 from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to share their favourite experiences and Instagram pictures of Leipzig. These are just a few, with more here:Angela Merkel\u2019s old student clubThere are lots of good restaurants and bars on Barfussg\u00e4sschen right by the Marktplatz. And nearby is the historic beer cellar Auerbachskeller. If you\u2019re feeling like going out and celebrating with local people, there are lots of places you can go. How about a beach party with fresh cocktails at the La Playa beach bar? Or dancing alongside Leipzig\u2019s beautiful people at Club L1? If you are into alternative or indie sounds, the right place to be would be surely Elsterartig, which has free admission. Visitors should also check out the cultural centre and former student club Moritzbastei, set up within historic vaults that were originally part of the old fortifications of Leipzig. When she was a student at Karl Marx university, chancellor Angela Merkel was among those who helped restore the structure to create a club for students.Andy SchulzeDo the Lokomotive stadiumThe Bruno-Plache-Stadion (nicknamed \u201cdas Bruno\u201d), in Probstheida, the home of the FC Lokomotive Leipzig football club, is a must-see for any football fan with its 93-year-old stand (kept almost as it was when it opened). The club was a European Cup Winner\u2019s Cup finalist in 1987, losing 0-1 to Ajax, and is well known for its UEFA Cup matches with the likes of Tottenham Hotspur, Wolverhampton Wanderers and Ipswich Town. The beer and bratwurst, fair prices and fair play will appeal to traditional football fans.Uwe Emmrich-Kie\u00dflingPuppet theatreWestfl\u00fcgel Lindenfels is located in the very arty west of the city at H\u00e4hnelstrasse 27, in Plagwitz. Neo Rauch\u2019s studio is just five minutes away and numerous galleries and cafes are dotted all over the area. The building houses Leipzig\u2019s foremost puppetry theatre with plays being put on nearly every week by Westfl\u00fcgel\u2019s own players or international ensembles. The building itself is full of character \u2013 it opened as a ballroom in 1900, and became a factory for decades thereafter and only narrowly escaped total desolation by being lovingly resurrected in the last 10 years. It is still inhabited by the character of lost places while coming to life on performance nights and every Friday as a cheap and cheerful bar with free concerts, impro theatre and great people. bluemelhTake a Trabant tourWe did a trip around Leipzig in a Trabant, the car that\u2019s such a symbol of the former East Germany, and with it you can do a fantastic city tour \u2013 much cooler than with a touristic bus. Leipzig is a great city and we had a nice time touring through with \u201cour\u201d Trabi.Dick SchiferliThrough the forest to the lakeThe Riverside Forest almost splits Leipzig in two, meaning that you can get from one end of the city to the other without using roads. Register with the public bike hire company Nextbike, get a map and plan a good hour to cycle through the woods to the lake Cospudener See, to the south of the city. The lake is good for swimming and has a cool harbour with restaurants. The cycle around the lake takes around 20 mins. If you are daring enough to get your kit off, there is the beautiful Sauna im See on the lake next to the harbour.Veraplums", "tags": ["Leipzig holidays", "Germany holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "City breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Art and design", "Culture"], "title": "The alternative city guide to Leipzig, Germany"},{"date": "2015-07-29T11:38:47Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Facebook has been told to allow people to use pseudonyms on its site by a German regulator, which has ruled that the site\u2019s \u201creal name\u201d policy violates the right to privacy.The Hamburg data protection authority said on Tuesday that the site could not force users to give official ID such as a passport or identity card, nor could it unilaterally change their chosen names to their \u201creal\u201d names on the site.Facebook\u2019s enforcement of its policy, which limits individuals to one account each and requires that those accounts be held under their real name, frequently results in accounts with suspected pseudonyms being locked by the company until the owner can prove their name, or even just the name being changed back by Facebook.Johannes Caspar, the Hamburg commissioner for data protection and freedom of information, said: \u201cAs in many other complaints against Facebook, this case demonstrates that the network wants to enforce the so-called real names policy with no regard to national legislation.\u201dHe added that the requirement to use a real name violates the rights, enshrined in German law, to use a pseudonym, while requests for digital copies of an official photo ID also contradict the passport and ID card law. In addition, he said that \u201cthe unauthorised modification of the pseudonym \u2026 blatantly violated the right to informational self-determination and constitutes a deliberate infringement of the Data Protection Act\u201d.Facebook has repeatedly clashed with European data regulators, arguing that it should only be bound by the decisions of the Irish data protection office, since its EU headquarters are based in that nation. In June, after the Belgian privacy commission took the company to court over user tracking, a Facebook spokesperson said that the privacy commissioner should have worked with them \u201cthrough a dialogue with us at Facebook Ireland and with our regulator, the Irish data protection commissioner\u201d.Caspar pre-emptively rejected that argument: \u201cIn this case, Facebook can not retreat to the position that the Irish Data Protection Act sets the standard here. Last year the ECJ blocked that position with case-law related to Google\u2019s search engine. Facebook has economic activity in Gemany with its branch in Hamburg. So: if you like our game, you must play by our rules.\u201dIn a statement, a Facebook spokesperson said: \u201cWe\u2019re disappointed Facebook\u2019s authentic name policy is being revisited, since German courts have reviewed it on multiple occasions and regulators have determined it fully complies with applicable European data protection law. The use of authentic names on Facebook protects people\u2019s privacy and safety by ensuring people know who they\u2019re sharing and connecting with.\u201dFacebook\u2019s real name policy has long been one of the most controversial rules on the site. In February, the site was accused of discrimination after a number of Native American activists reported having their accounts suspended or names changed to match European norms. Dana Lone Hill argued that: \u201cKaty Perry\u2019s Left Shark from her Super Bowl halftime show has a Facebook page and we have to prove who we are.\u201dThe policy hit the headlines again in June after Zip, a trans former Facebook employee who was instrumental in introducing the company\u2019s custom gender feature, was required to \u201cprove\u201d her name to the company \u2013 the same name that had been on her name badge while she worked for Facebook.\u201cWe use names that don\u2019t match our ID on Facebook for safety, or because we\u2019re trans, or because we\u2019re just straight up not known by our legal names,\u201d Zip wrote. \u201cHaving chosen its policy, Facebook has to enforce it. And because its policy attempts to hammer the reality of names into a constrained model they end up having to make a trade-off in the edge cases. Some people are not allowed to use their names so that everyone else\u2019s can be enforced.\u201d", "tags": ["Facebook", "Technology", "Germany", "Social networking", "World news", "Media", "Europe"], "title": "Germany fights Facebook over real names policy"},{"date": "2015-07-22T16:55:14Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Political Berlin feels emotional right now. A high-level German politician put it this way to me recently: \u201cIt\u2019s like a whole hysteria going on here. The Berlin political world is emotional all the time. It has to stop, but I don\u2019t know how. The anger is on the left, it\u2019s on the right.\u201d The historian Jacob Soll touched on this outpouring of emotion as it relates to Greece in a column in the New York Times last week, and his conclusion is that Germans must regain their cool if they want to lead Europe.He is right, but he is skipping a step. Germans cannot regain their cool until they reduce the outrage they feel towards Greece, which they perceive as the guilty partner in their eurozone marriage. To do this, both nations must engage an impartial, outside mediator to help them mitigate the outrage they feel towards each other. In a structured, therapy-like setting, relevant policymakers from both sides would then finally be able to sit together and create a shared vision to wrest Greece from its economic depression. Related: Why is Germany so tough on Greece? Look back 25 years | Dirk Laabs Outrage-mitigation mediation works in situations where activists and corporations find themselves at loggerheads. Ideally, corporations and their critics commit to sitting together in a room and sharing their dilemmas \u2013 to actually explaining their positions in the safe space created by the mediators.The chief executive of a corporation that has flouted environmental laws might say something like: \u201cYou activists just don\u2019t get it. This pollution is not that bad. It creates X amount of jobs and it allows us to earn Y amount of profit. We can then pay Z taxes and thereby fulfil our role in society.\u201dThe activists might reply: \u201cWe won\u2019t accept that logic, because \u2013 aside from the fact that you\u2019re ruining the environment, perhaps with the tacit acceptance of regulators whom you\u2019ve bought off \u2013 your pollution is just shifting the cost of your business to society, which has to deal with all of these sick and/or dead people. But, OK, we get that your business has an economic purpose, so if you stop polluting and move to another model, we will mobilise our base and our leadership to support you.\u201dGermany can look to its own transformation away from nuclear power to renewables as an example here. This process, accelerated after Fukushima, saw anti-nuclear activists, politicians and the power industry jointly define the vision for the future state of Germany\u2019s energy supply. Since everyone has bought into the vision, activists and industry stand eagerly behind the transformation. In fact, buy-in for this green movement has become so widespread that it has become part of Germany\u2019s national identity.Seen in this light, last week\u2019s deal imposing a 77% VAT increase \u2013 from 13% to 23% \u2013 and other punitive measures on Greece are bound to fail: not only because they would seem to contradict a century of economic theory, but also because neither Germany nor Greece has bought into them. Everyone hates this deal.Germany feels it is being asked for a gift at the end of a gun, sinking money into a country that will never actually pay it back and that it does not perceive as critical for its national and economic security. Greece is outraged that more austerity will further lower its standard of living, and it is tired of being called lazy and inept by Europe\u2019s de facto hegemonic power.An impartial mediating team could help treat the emotion and lower the outrageThe finance ministers Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble and Euclid Tsakalotos must lead their staffs in committing to outrage mitigation under mediation. This is imperative because functionaries from both governments are, sadly, pushing their negative emotion out into their nations\u2019 media. And Greek and German media are in turn whipping up the kind of populist sentiment that is manifesting itself as anti-Greece protests in front of the Bundestag or Angela Merkel Hitler posters in Athens. The toxicity of the debate has reached fever pitch on both sides.An impartial mediating team \u2013 comprising \u201cmiddle power\u201d diplomats supported by a consultancy specialising in outrage mitigation \u2013 could help treat the emotion and lower the outrage. Once this is done, policymakers in Athens and Berlin will be in a position to draft a shared vision for what a successful future state looks like and how it can be achieved.Until this happens, we will see the perpetuation of a crisis in which Germans become angrier, Greeks poorer and other Europeans doubtful of the resilience of the European Union project.", "tags": ["Greece", "Germany", "Eurozone crisis", "Eurozone", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Euro", "Economics", "Europe", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Germany and Greece need a mediator | Michael Scaturro"},{"date": "2015-07-01T19:08:08Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Matthew Evans has got his argument backwards (Bergen-Belsen was a German atrocity, Letters, 30 June). Everyone \u201cwho cares about the Holocaust and historical accuracy\u201d needs to distinguish between the Nazis and \u201cthe Germans\u201d precisely because explanations of the Holocaust must grasp its political causes, and not rely on lazy \u2013 and in fact racist \u2013 equations of nazism with Germany. Hundreds of thousands of Germans, including political opponents of nazism, victims of the so-called euthanasia programme and Jewish Germans were murdered by the Nazis, who knew very well the difference between themselves and the kind of Germans they aspired to fashion. Some of these Germans died in Bergen-Belsen. Evans insults their memory, as well as doing a massive disservice to the principles of accuracy he claims to honour.Jane CaplanEmeritus professor of modern European history, University of Oxford Related: Bergen-Belsen was a German atrocity, not just a Nazi one | Letters \u2022 We know why the Guardian and others describe atrocities in the second world war as Nazi rather than German. It is to distinguish between Germany under National Socialism and the democratic, open Germany that has so remarkably emerged from that war and then the cold war, and which has done much to face its Nazi past. The alternative may achieve narrow historical exactitude, but that is outweighed by its possible connotations of collective historical guilt, itself one of the elements in the Nazi demonising of the Jewish people. This is not \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d (in any case an imprecise, catch-all term) but responsible discourse.Canon Robert TitleyRector, Richmond team ministry, diocese of Southwark\u2022 I would agree with Matthew Evans that German nationalism was part of what made my mother a young widow in 1944. However, with the perspective of history, I would now focus on the ideology which uncaged that beast. That sort of ideology is the real enemy, and it is not exclusively German. It stalks the corridors of power in every nation, seeking out those who do not at first recognise it for what it is, or (much worse) believe foolishly that it can be controlled. From my perspective I do not see a focus on the Nazi ideology as \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d: I see it as political clarity of vision.Roger WilsonBillingshurst, West Sussex\u2022 Of the many Germans I knew before the war, several lost their lives fighting the Nazis in Germany. Would the noble lord have placed his head on the line fighting them if the fascists had taken over in Britain? In the last free elections before the Nazis seized power, the socialist/communist vote was greater than the vote for the Nazis. No wonder the Nazis came for them well before they came for the Jews, and, of course, many of those who opposed them at the risk of torture and death were also Jewish. Is Lord Evans prepared to accept responsibility for the atrocities committed by Britain in its empire, especially in India? It is a gross insult to the many thousands of Germans who opposed the Nazis actively to hold them reponsible for the concentration camps.Len GoldmanBrighton Related: Nazis, Germans and cold war propaganda | Letter from John Wilson \u2022 Having grown up in a country where historical guilt is done to excess, we Huns were most most certainly in need of Matthew Evans\u2019 wisdom \u2013 as I\u2019m sure were you Brits, given that TV here only shows a programme dealing with the Nazis every other day.Anke NeibigNewcastle upon Tyne\u2022 That the Guardian does not in the first instance call the Nazi camps \u201cGerman\u201d is not a sign of \u201cworrying political correctness\u201d. In its methods, the Holocaust relied upon those of European industrialisation and colonialism. In its ideology, it was an expression of millennia of European antisemitism. Only Nazis believed there was something specially German about their undertaking. The camps were Nazi.I was at the Jewish Museum with the German School last week and we were taught how some orthodox Jews may have separate kitchens for meat and dairy products. I thought about Ed Miliband: didn\u2019t we have a good laugh about his nose! And his ability to eat bacon! And now we find he had two kitchens! And then I got to thinking about his act of primal treachery; and about his immigrant father who hated Britain; and about his plan to stab Britain in the back (the same impulse was evident in the Dolchstosslegende in the Weimar Republic \u2013 the legend that the war was lost because of treacherous Jews). When I asked staff at the museum what they thought about the treatment of Miliband, they said they thought it was obviously antisemitic but they didn\u2019t make a fuss about it because it would just make things worse.No one seems to say much about it though. Why? Because real antisemitism is something those evil Germans did? In any case, one danger we shouldn\u2019t be overly concerned with is \u201cpolitical correctness\u201d.George HowardRichmond, Surrey\u2022 I share Matthew Evans\u2019 concern about the trend for creating an imagined community of \u201cNazis\u201d where German atrocities can safely be compartmentalised away from the troubling reality of national complicity in cruelty. In 1904, before the Nazis came to power, Germany exterminated 80% of the Herero tribe in Namibia \u2013 60,000 people \u2013 and embarked on a horrific project of human experimentation on tribal survivors that was later resumed against Europeans in second world war death camps.But Evans\u2019 letter also follows the dominant trend of referring only to Jewish victims and replaces the postwar reference to \u201cGerman crimes against humanity\u201d with the word Holocaust \u2013 sometimes Shoah. This might be an understandable emphasis if one is Jewish but it does thereby exclude the full spectrum of victims.Nazi electoral success owed a great deal to the scapegoating of a generation of black mixed-race Germans \u2013 known nationally and in Mein Kampf as Rhineland Bastards. Mein Kampf also gives them the label \u201chalf-apes\u201d. Some populist histories chose to forget they were persecuted, along with homosexuals, the disabled, Gypsies, trade unionists and leftists. Huge numbers of Poles and millions of captured Russians were also killed in camps.Dr Gavin LewisManchester", "tags": ["Second world war", "Germany", "Europe", "Adolf Hitler", "World news", "The far right", "Holocaust"], "title": "The Nazis, Germany and lazy equations | Letters"},{"date": "2015-09-29T15:46:52Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Most refugees have already defied the odds by the time they arrive in Europe, having typically undertaken perilous journeys across land and sea. But once they have reached Germany they are not out of danger, according to mushroom experts and doctors, who warn record numbers of people are becoming ill after eating poisonous mushrooms.A leading German toxicologist has said poisonings are at an all-time high owing to the large number of newcomers foraging for mushrooms and mistaking those they find for varieties found in their homelands.Prof Siegmar Berndt, thead toxicologist of the German Mycological Society, said he had never come across so many cases. \u201cIn my 70-year lifespan there have never been so many mushroom poisonings as there have been so far this year,\u201d he told the Guardian.\u201cMost of the victims are refugees and asylum-seekers who have already arrived in Germany, mainly from Syria.\u201dIn addition to whole families who headed into the woodland close to their refugee shelters to forage for mushrooms, and took pleasure in finding something they appeared to know from their countries of origin, there were groups of men looking for alternative ways to spend their time who had fallen victim to toxic mushroom varieties.\u201cIt\u2019s largely young men who are bored. They go for a walk in the woods, pick the mushrooms and consume them after frying them,\u201d Berndt said. \u201cIt\u2019s tragic, particularly when you consider the journeys they\u2019ve already endured to get here.\u201d In the first two weeks of September alone, there have been more than 40 reported cases of poisonings, mainly linked to thedeath cap mushroom, Amanita phalloides. The fungus is responsible for 90% of all mushroom poisoning. One or two cases in a season would be the norm. But Berndt believes the real figure could be much higher. \u201cThere is no obligation for people to report cases of poisoning in Germany, so I suspect there have been lots of other cases that have gone unreported,\u201d he said. With the three-month mushroom season only about halfway gone, more cases are expected.The poisonings include 30 in Hannover and a further 10 in M\u00fcnster, including a 16-year-old boy who died after a replacement liver could not be found in time to save him. Another Syrian is in a critical condition and awaiting a suitable liver.Experts believe that the victims mistook the death caps for the bearded Amanita, which is not found in Germany but grows in the Mediterranean area. Related: Refugees welcome? How UK and Germany compare on migration In response to the high number of incidents, doctors at Hannover Medical School have formulated a poster that has been distributed to refugee shelters across Germany in eight languages.It warns against collecting and consuming the fungus, which it says has no repellant taste and the first symptoms occur only after several hours.\u201cA mushroom you regard from your homeland as a delicious edible mushroom could be deadly here, although they look similar,\u201d it states, urging anyone who has eaten one to seek hospital help, and to take any remains, or any vomit, with them, in order to help determine the cause of the poisoning.\u201cWith the mushroom season still having some way to go, if we can reach people with this message, we really have the chance to save lives,\u201d said Stefan Zorn, spokesman for the hospital.Spikes in mushroom-poisoning cases have previously been linked to the arrival of refugees. In the late 90s there were several incidents of Kosovans being poisoned, and, in the early 90s, of ethnic Germans from Russia.Often the victims are reluctant to present themselves in hospital for fear of getting into trouble for stealing.The death cap mushroom, once consumed, can quickly lead to liver and kidney malfunction owing to the amatoxin it contains. As small an amount as half a mushroom can be fatal.\u201cBut it can take up to three days for the symptoms \u2013 including vomiting and diarrhoea \u2013 to appear, by which time someone\u2019s liver might have been destroyed,\u201d said Kerstin Aretz, from Dresden, who, like Berndt, is one of more than 1,000 registered mushroom experts throughout Germany, to whom mushroom pickers can turn with queries about whether their spoils are edible or not.", "tags": ["Germany", "Fungi", "Refugees", "Biology", "Migration", "Food & drink", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Germany attributes spike in mushroom poisonings to foraging refugees"},{"date": "2015-09-13T14:29:13Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany and its second city, Munich, are reaching the limit of their capacity in the face of the biggest refugee influx since the second world war, senior officials have said.The economy minister, Sigmar Gabriel, said in a newspaper interview on Sunday that Germany was reaching its limit as thousands of refugees continue to stream across its borders every day.  Related: How much longer can Germany keep its doors open to refugees? \u201cIt\u2019s true. The European lack of action in the refugee crisis is now pushing even Germany to the limit of its ability,\u201d he said in an interview published on Der Tagesspiegel\u2019s website. The German government is expecting 800,000 new arrivals this year. On Saturday, about 13,000 arrived in Munich alone.Earlier, a police official in Munich said: \u201cGiven the numbers from yesterday, it is very clear that we have reached the upper limit of our capacity.\u201dThe president of the Upper Bavaria region, Christoph Hillenbrand, said he did not know \u201chow we can cope\u201d, according to the Bild am Sonntag tabloid, which headlined its article \u201cMunich at the brink of collapse\u201d.Bavarian public television channel BR said the city \u201ccame very close to a humanitarian disaster\u201d, although authorities managed to limit the numbers of people sleeping on mattresses on the floor to just a few dozen, rather than the hundreds as earlier feared.Authorities are considering whether to open up the Olympiahalle \u2013 a stadium used for the 1972 Olympics which today serves as a concert hall or sports arena \u2013 as a temporary shelter for refugees.Refugees continued to move north through the Balkans in large numbers. Hungary reported another one-day record on Saturday, when 4,330 people entered the country.Further south, 28 people drowned after the boat they were on capsized off a Greek island; 98 were rescued.", "tags": ["Refugees", "Migration", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Hungary", "Greece"], "title": "Refugee crisis: Germany reaching its limit, say officials"},{"date": "2015-09-13T18:17:25Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany\u2019s decision to re-establish national border controls on its southern frontier with Austria deals a telling blow to two decades of open travel in the 26-nation bloc known as the Schengen area.The abrupt move to suspend Schengen arrangements along the 500-mile border with Austria will shock the rest of the EU and may spur it towards a more coherent strategy to deal with its migration crisis. Yet there will be little sympathy for Berlin from Hungary, Italy or Greece, which are bearing the brunt of the mass arrivals of people from Syria, Iraq, Eritrea and Afghanistan.The German decision came as EU interior ministers prepared to meet for a crucial session on the issue. There are deep splits over Brussels\u2019 campaign, backed by Berlin, to establish a new compulsory quota system to distribute asylum seekers across the EU on a more equitable basis.Thomas de Maizi\u00e8re, the German interior minister, announced that while Austria was the focus of the new border controls, all of Germany\u2019s borders would be affected. As the EU\u2019s biggest country straddling the union\u2019s geographical centre, Germany is the lynchpin of the Schengen system. It borders nine countries. Without Germany\u2019s participation, Schengen faces collapse.It was the second unilateral decision by the German government in a fortnight. Previously, without telling Brussels, Budapest or Vienna in advance, Berlin announced that given the concentration of refugees in Hungary it was waiving European rules known as the Dublin regulations, which stipulate that people must be registered and lodge their asylum applications in the first EU country they enter.The decision prompted a sudden surge into German of Syrians looking for safe haven. It elicited huge praise for Germany\u2019s humane approach, but ultimately it has proven unmanageable. Sunday\u2019s decision to suspend the open borders reverses that move.It will create a backlog of people in Austria and Hungary, with the latter also introducing a stiff new closed-borders regime, effectively criminalising most new arrivals as illegal migrants. Reports from a camp on the Hungarian-Serbian border at the weekend described a military operation, with helicopters constantly buzzing overhead and police and dogs patrolling a razor-wire border fence. A lack of running water and lavatories in the camp made for wretched conditions.Austria\u2019s chancellor, Werner Faymann, accused Hungary\u2019s hardline anti-immigrant government of Nazi-like activities. In northern Europe, Stockholm and Copenhagen traded barbs after the Danish authorities allowed refugees to leave for Sweden without proper documents.The acrimony in Scandinavia, central Europe and, increasingly, inside Germany itself sets the scene for recriminations when the interior ministers meet to ponder their options.\u201cMonday\u2019s extraordinary council of interior ministers is so important. We need swift progress on the commission\u2019s proposals now,\u201d said Jean-Claude Juncker, the European commission\u2019s president, after speaking to Angela Merkel on Sunday. \u201cThe objectives of our efforts must be to help ensure that we can go back to the normal Schengen system of open borders between Schengen member states as soon as feasible.\u201dBerlin is a keen supporter of the commission\u2019s scheme, but it is fiercely resisted in eastern and central Europe, where countries have little history of accommodating asylum seekers.The German decision to erect border controls may frighten the east Europeans into concessions, given that Schengen membership is one of the most highly prized aspects of EU membership for the former Soviet bloc countries, whose travel rights were severely restricted until 1989.Even the Hungarian prime minister, Viktor Orb\u00e1n, the most outspoken opponent of liberal immigration policies in the EU, has said that \u201cfor Hungarians, Schengen is freedom\u201d.The system, however, is under strain as never before. About 63,000 asylum seekers have entered Bavaria from Hungary and Austria this month, more than the total for all of last year. More than 12,000 arrived on Saturday and thousands more on Sunday.Sigmar Gabriel, the German vice-chancellor and Social Democrat leader, lambasted \u201cEuropean inaction\u201d on the crisis and said Germany had reached the limits of what it could do.De Maiziere said the border controls would stop people entering Germany without valid travel documents, putting the onus on transit countries to process them more consistently and piling the pressure on other EU countries before Monday\u2019s meeting.\u201cGermany is facing up to its responsibilities, but the burden has to be spread in solidarity,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Germany", "Refugees", "Migration", "Austria", "European Union", "European commission", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany border crackdown deals blow to Schengen system"},{"date": "2015-09-13T17:13:04Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany introduced border controls on Sunday, and dramatically halted all train traffic with Austria, after the country\u2019s regions said they could no longer cope with the overwhelming number of refugees entering the country.Interior minister, Thomas de Maizi\u00e8re, announced the measures after German officials said record numbers of refugees, most of them from Syria, had stretched the system to breaking point. \u201cThis step has become necessary,\u201d he told a press conference in Berlin, adding it would cause disruption.Asylum seekers must understand \u201cthey cannot choose the states where they are seeking protection,\u201d he told reporters.All trains between Austria and Bavaria, the principal conduit through which 450,000 refugees have arrived in Germany this year, ceased at 5pm Berlin time. Only EU citizens and others with valid documents would be allowed to pass through Germany\u2019s borders, de Maizi\u00e8re said.The decision means that Germany has effectively exited temporarily from the Schengen system. It is likely to lead to chaotic scenes on the Austrian-German border, as tens of thousands of refugees try to enter Germany by any means possible and set up camp next to it. German police began patrolling road crossing points with Austria at 5.30pm on Sunday. These checks may be rolled out to the borders with Poland and the Czech Republic. Chancellor Angela Merkel agreed the details in a conference call on Saturday with her Social Democrat coalition partners. The Czech Republic said separately that it would boost controls on its border with Austria.The emergency measures are designed to give respite to Germany\u2019s federal states who are responsible for looking after refugees. There is also discussion inside the government about sending troops to the road and rail borders with Austria to reinforce security, Der Spiegel reported.The move comes amid extraordinary scenes at Munich\u2019s main train station over the weekend and a growing backlash inside Germany over the decision last week by Merkel, to allow unregistered refugees to enter the country. The numbers exceeded all expectations.On Saturday, 13,015 refugees arrived at the station on trains from Austria. Another 1,400 came on Sunday morning. The city\u2019s mayor, Dieter Reiter, said Munich was \u201cfull\u201d, with its capacities completely exhausted. Some refugees slept on the station concourse on Saturday night. Germany\u2019s stunning ad hoc move sets the stage for a bitter showdown on Monday at a meeting of EU interior ministers in Brussels. Hungary\u2019s president Viktor Orb\u00e1n welcomed the decision and said it would protect \u201cGerman and European values\u201d. He and other east European leaders are insisting they will not accept a plan set out last week by the European commission chief Jean-Claude Juncker for mandatory refugee quotas. De Maizi\u00e8re said Germany had reintroduced border controls for reasons of security but added pointedly that they were also \u201ca signal to Europe\u201d. Germany, Austria and France support Juncker\u2019s proposal which would see 160,000 asylum seekers shared out across all 28 EU states. The refugees would be allocated to each country on the basis of its size and wealth. Related: How much longer can Germany keep its doors open to refugees? There has been implacable opposition from other EU states including Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland and Romania. On Sunday, the Czech prime minister, Bohuslav Sobotka, said: \u201cI think it is impossible to retreat. Our position is firm.\u201dPreviously Orb\u00e1n has blamed Berlin for the crisis, and Merkel\u2019s decision to open Germany\u2019s borders. Budapest is racing to complete a fence on its border with Serbia, where 4,330 people crossed on Saturday. On Tuesday, it introduces tough laws which make crossing the border punishable with jail.\u201cThese migrants are not coming our way from war zones but from camps in Syria\u2019s neighbours. So these people are not fleeing danger and don\u2019t need to be scared for their lives,\u201d Orb\u00e1n told Germany\u2019s Bild newspaper. European leaders were \u201cliving in a dream world\u201d.Orb\u00e1n\u2019s hardline populist stance has exasperated his neighbours. Austria\u2019s chancellor, Werner Faymann, said Hungary\u2019s harsh treatment of refugees was reminiscent of the second world war. \u201cPiling refugees on trains in the hopes that they go far, far away brings back memories of the darkest period of our continent,\u201d he told Der Spiegel.Faymann suggested that if no consensus was reached on Monday in Brussels, Germany and its allies could try to force through a vote on quotas with a qualified majority.  Related: 'There have to be limits': mixed feelings from Germans over refugees He said Austria and Germany \u2013 both net contributors to the EU budget \u2013 would consider sanctions against countries stubbornly refusing to share the refugee burden. This might include axing some EU structural funds from which \u201ceast European states profit most of all\u201d. As well as quotas, Juncker\u2019s proposal includes establishing hotspots at EU frontiers, including Greece and Italy, where refugees can be registered under a unitary system.The UN\u2019s refugee agency, the UNHCR, called on the EU to avoid fragmenting into a patchwork of countries with different border rules, which would plunge thousands of refugees into \u201clegal limbo\u201d. Decisions by a meeting of EU interior ministers on Monday would be \u201ceven more critical\u201d, the agency said.Greek authorities said on Sunday that 28 people drowned, half of them children, when their wooden smuggling boat capsized in the Aegean sea. The incident happened before dawn off the Greek island of Farmakonisi. The Greek coastguard pulled 68 people out of the water. Another 30 managed to swim to land.Germany\u2019s federal regions, meanwhile, have said that they are struggling to cope with an unprecedented human influx. Berlin\u2019s city government has commandeered two sports halls next to the Olympic stadium to house new arrivals. It is considering making use of a velodrome, empty hangars in a trade fair building and the Tempelhof airport.The CSU, the Bavarian sister party to Merkel\u2019s Christian Democrat CDU, has accused the chancellor of making an \u201cunparalleled historical mistake\u201d in opening Germany\u2019s borders. On Sunday, Christoph Hillenband, the president of Upper Bavaria, said the system for dealing with refugees was close to collapse, with 63,000 people arriving in Munich since late August.Dedicated trains were now taking refugees north to other parts of Germany, with regular passengers shunted on to alternative services. \u201cIt\u2019s not feasible for us to take in the equivalent of a small town\u2019s population every day. It\u2019s simply not doable logistically any more,\u201d Hillenbrand said.Mustafa Alomar, a refugee from Manbej, near Aleppo in Syria, said he had sympathy with Europeans who said the refugee crisis was not their problem, but added: \u201cIf you stay in Syria you will be killed. That\u2019s true regardless of whether you are poor, middle class or rich.\u201d Alomar, a former student of English literature at Aleppo University, is living at a refugee hostel in Berlin, while his familyis in a camp in Syria near the Turkish border. He said three of his friends drowned after their boat from Libya to Italy sank. He was the only one who survived. \u201cWe are not angels or Satan. We are simply human beings,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Migration", "Hungary", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Refugees", "Greece", "European Union", "Austria"], "title": "Refugee crisis: Germany reinstates controls at Austrian border"},{"date": "2015-09-08T12:57:42Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Germany could take 500,000 refugees each year for \u201cseveral years\u201d, the country\u2019s vice-chancellor, Sigmar Gabriel, has said, as fresh clashes broke out overnight between police and refugees on the Greek island of Lesbos and thousands of people gathered amid chaotic scenes on the Greek border with Macedonia.\u201cI believe we could surely deal with something in the order of half a million for several years,\u201d he told ZDF public television. \u201cI have no doubt about that, maybe more.\u201d Germany expects to receive 800,000 asylum seekers this year, four times the total for 2014.  Related: Authorities in Lesbos struggle to cope with numbers of refugees \u2013 in pictures Gabriel also stressed that other European countries must also accept their fair share as refugees flee war and poverty in the Middle East and Africa and head for the EU.As Greece struggled to cope with an influx of refugees \u2013 many from war-ravaged Syria \u2013 Donald Tusk, the EU president, warned that the refugee \u201cexodus\u201d could last for years. \u201cThe wave of migration is not a one-time incident but the beginning of a real exodus, which only means that we will have to deal with this problem for many years to come,\u201d he said.In Lesbos, where tens of thousands of refugees are stranded, about a dozen coastguards and riot police armed with batons struggled overnight to control about 2,500 migrants in the island\u2019s main port as crowds surged towards a government-chartered ferry bound for Athens.The UN\u2019s refugee agency, UNHCR, said Europe must offer guaranteed relocation for Syrian refugees. About 30,000 refugees are on Greek islands, with 20,000 on Lesbos alone, it said. The island has a population of about 85,000.Melissa Fleming, a UNHCR spokeswoman, told a news briefing in Geneva: \u201cDiscussions in Europe this week are taking on even greater urgency because it obviously cannot be a German solution to a European problem.\u201d She welcomed announcements by Britain and France that they would take in Syrian refugees, but said reception centres must be set up in countries including Hungary and Greece.\u201cThose can only work if there is a guaranteed relocation system whereby European countries saying yes will take X number. We believe it should be 200,000 \u2013 that\u2019s the number we believe need relocating in Europe countries,\u201d Fleming said.German chancellor Angela Merkel reiterated her support for quotas for distributing refugees, telling a news conference in Berlin: \u201cThis joint European asylum system cannot just exist on paper but must also exist in practice \u2013 I say that because it lays out minimum standards for accommodating refugees and the task of registering refugees.\u201dOn Monday more than 3,000 newcomers, most brought in on cruise ships from Lesbos, arrived in the port of Piraeus in Athens. The Red Cross has set up medical facilities in a central square in the capital where it handed out food and water to the arrivals.Angeliki Fanaki, who is coordinating the relief programme, said every effort was being made to ensure refugees were received with a level of dignity they may not have experienced so far.The vast majority of refugees and migrants in Lesbos have been forced to live out in the open, or at best in tents, with almost no access to running water or public toilets, and conditions have become increasingly squalid.The migration minister, Yiannis Mouzalas, a physician with Doctors of the World, described conditions as miserable after visiting the island on Sunday. Thousands of Syrians, Afghans, Iraqis, Iranians, Pakistanis and Bangladeshis have converged on the island\u2019s capital, Mytilini, home to 27,000 locals.\u201cIt is an intolerable situation,\u201d said the island\u2019s mayor, Spyros Galanos, who has appealed to residents to boycott the country\u2019s upcoming general election and threatened to close schools later this week if relief measures and emergency action are not taken quickly. On Tuesday morning locals told Greek TV that after several days of street clashes between refugees and riot police they had reached a point where they were afraid to leave their homes.The government has responded by opening a second reception centre to speed up processing of the newcomers, and laying on more ships to transit them to the mainland. But with more new arrivals coming from Turkey, no amount of emergency action appears to be adequate.The Greek government has appealed to the EU commission for \u20ac2.5bn in emergency funding \u2013 usually reserved for natural disasters \u2013 to deal with the crisis, which has also affected Greece\u2019s northern border.Tensions are high on the border with Macedonia, where at least 8,000 people were waiting to enter the former Yugoslav republic after 2,000 made the crossing on Monday. With the first light of day, police continued a search and rescue operation in the hope of finding a 23-year-old Syrian father last seen struggling in the fast-moving waters of the Axios river that separates the two states.In Hungary, scores of migrants broke through a police line near a refugee centre and marched towards Budapest on Monday before agreeing to turn back. In Denmark, police closed a motorway in the south of the country as crowds headed towards the Swedish border.Germany would keep accepting \u201ca greatly disproportionate share\u201d among EU members \u201cbecause we are an economically strong country, without doubt\u201d, vice-chancellor Gabriel said. Britain, France and even Latin American countries have pledged to accept tens of thousands of refugees between them. Venezuela said it would accept 20,000, the same number that Britain has promised to take over five years. Dilma Rousseff, the Brazilian president, declared migrants would be welcomed with \u201copen arms\u201d, and Chile\u2019s leader, Michelle Bachelet, said it was \u201cworking to take a large number\u201d. Canada\u2019s Quebec province said it would take 3,650 this year.", "tags": ["Refugees", "Migration", "Greece", "Germany", "Turkey", "European Union", "Middle East and North Africa", "Syria", "Hungary", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Germany says it could take 500,000 refugees a year"},{"date": "2015-11-13T11:25:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The eurozone\u2019s economy lost steam in the latest quarter as Portugal stalled, Germany slowed and debt-stricken Greece contracted.Gross domestic product (GDP) across the 19 countries in the single currency bloc rose just 0.3% in the third quarter, according to Eurostat. That defied expectations for growth to hold at 0.4%, according to a Reuters poll of economists. On a year earlier, GDP was up 1.6%, lower than forecasts for 1.7%.Euro area GDP +0.3% in Q3 2015, +1.6% compared with Q3 2014 #Eurostat - https://t.co/t83KcLWq89 pic.twitter.com/zwRG0uzVJhThe July to September figures mark a slowdown from eurozone GDP growth of 0.4% in the second quarter and 0.5% in the first quarter and come as the European Central Bank (ECB) hints that it is planning to inject further funds into the eurozone economy to maintain recovery.Germany, the eurozone\u2019s biggest economy, grew 0.3% as expected, but that was a notch down from 0.4% growth in the previous quarter. France\u2019s economy grew 0.3%, a rebound from no growth in the second quarter.But Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal and Finland all undershot market expectations. Greece swung from growing 0.4% in the second quarter to shrinking 0.5%.#Italy's GDP +0.2% in Q3, slightly below PMI signal. More sluggish growth signalled so far in Q4 pic.twitter.com/SEN038nZUmItaly, the bloc\u2019s third-largest economy after Germany and France, grew 0.2%, behind a Reuters poll forecast for 0.3%. GDP in the Netherlands was up a mere 0.1% against expectations of 0.3%. Portugal did not grow at all and Finland\u2019s economy shrank a larger-than-expected 0.6%. Related: Eurozone GDP: Growth slows to just 0.3% - live updates The ECB president, Mario Draghi, has previously signalled he is prepared to cut interest rates and increase quantitative easing (QE) to stave off the risk of a renewed economic slump in the eurozone. Economists said the latest figures would add to impetus for him to act on recent comments.\u201cThe euro area\u2019s pace of economic growth lost a little momentum in the third quarter, despite the additional central bank stimulus seen so far this year and a weakened, competitive, currency,\u201d said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, which compiles surveys on eurozone economies. \u201cThe subdued pace of growth and persistent weak inflation applies further pressure on the ECB and increases the likelihood of the further measures being announced in December.\u201d This early estimate of eurozone GDP does not contain any detail on what was driving growth, economists noted. But based on surveys and data out from individual countries it appeared household spending was doing the heavy lifting, they said. Meanwhile, manufacturers have been struggling with a slowdown in global demand on the back of China\u2019s downturn and turmoil in other emerging market economies.\u201cConsumers probably saved the day for the eurozone economy in the third quarter. Both the renewed fall in energy prices and the declining unemployment rate have likely boosted disposable income, supporting consumption, in our view the single most important driver of the expansion at this moment,\u201d said Peter Vanden Houte at ING Financial Markets.\u201cBottom line: the eurozone recovery is continuing, but it seems like driving with the handbrake on. With the emerging countries still in the doldrums, little acceleration is to be expected in the coming quarters.\u201d", "tags": ["Eurozone", "Economics", "Business", "Economic recovery", "France", "Germany", "Portugal", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "European Union", "Euro"], "title": "Eurozone recovery loses steam as Germany slows"},{"date": "2015-11-13T11:25:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The eurozone\u2019s economy lost steam in the latest quarter as Portugal stalled, Germany slowed and debt-stricken Greece contracted.Gross domestic product (GDP) across the 19 countries in the single currency bloc rose just 0.3% in the third quarter, according to Eurostat. That defied expectations for growth to hold at 0.4%, according to a Reuters poll of economists. On a year earlier, GDP was up 1.6%, lower than forecasts for 1.7%.Euro area GDP +0.3% in Q3 2015, +1.6% compared with Q3 2014 #Eurostat - https://t.co/t83KcLWq89 pic.twitter.com/zwRG0uzVJhThe July to September figures mark a slowdown from eurozone GDP growth of 0.4% in the second quarter and 0.5% in the first quarter and come as the European Central Bank (ECB) hints that it is planning to inject further funds into the eurozone economy to maintain recovery.Germany, the eurozone\u2019s biggest economy, grew 0.3% as expected, but that was a notch down from 0.4% growth in the previous quarter. France\u2019s economy grew 0.3%, a rebound from no growth in the second quarter.But Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal and Finland all undershot market expectations. Greece swung from growing 0.4% in the second quarter to shrinking 0.5%.#Italy's GDP +0.2% in Q3, slightly below PMI signal. More sluggish growth signalled so far in Q4 pic.twitter.com/SEN038nZUmItaly, the bloc\u2019s third-largest economy after Germany and France, grew 0.2%, behind a Reuters poll forecast for 0.3%. GDP in the Netherlands was up a mere 0.1% against expectations of 0.3%. Portugal did not grow at all and Finland\u2019s economy shrank a larger-than-expected 0.6%. Related: Eurozone GDP: Growth slows to just 0.3% - live updates The ECB president, Mario Draghi, has previously signalled he is prepared to cut interest rates and increase quantitative easing (QE) to stave off the risk of a renewed economic slump in the eurozone. Economists said the latest figures would add to impetus for him to act on recent comments.\u201cThe euro area\u2019s pace of economic growth lost a little momentum in the third quarter, despite the additional central bank stimulus seen so far this year and a weakened, competitive, currency,\u201d said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, which compiles surveys on eurozone economies. \u201cThe subdued pace of growth and persistent weak inflation applies further pressure on the ECB and increases the likelihood of the further measures being announced in December.\u201d This early estimate of eurozone GDP does not contain any detail on what was driving growth, economists noted. But based on surveys and data out from individual countries it appeared household spending was doing the heavy lifting, they said. Meanwhile, manufacturers have been struggling with a slowdown in global demand on the back of China\u2019s downturn and turmoil in other emerging market economies.\u201cConsumers probably saved the day for the eurozone economy in the third quarter. Both the renewed fall in energy prices and the declining unemployment rate have likely boosted disposable income, supporting consumption, in our view the single most important driver of the expansion at this moment,\u201d said Peter Vanden Houte at ING Financial Markets.\u201cBottom line: the eurozone recovery is continuing, but it seems like driving with the handbrake on. With the emerging countries still in the doldrums, little acceleration is to be expected in the coming quarters.\u201d", "tags": ["Eurozone", "Economics", "Business", "Economic recovery", "France", "Germany", "Portugal", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "European Union", "Euro"], "title": "Eurozone recovery loses steam as Germany slows"},{"date": "2015-10-16T12:04:17Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The first time Max Weber made his way to Berlin to take part in a therapy session, he was so nervous he vomited on the train. \u201cI went straight home again and phoned the clinic to tell them I wouldn\u2019t make it,\u201d he said. \u201cI was so shocked by what I was doing I was shaking all over.\u201dThe second time was slightly easier. His hands were clammy and his heart was beating fast, but he took a deep breath as he stepped inside the ivy-clad red-brick building of the Charit\u00e9 hospital and climbed the stairs to meet the group. When he saw them, he got his next shock.\u201cThere were thin, fat, tall and short men, aged between 20 and 60. I found out there was a banker, a church warden, a doctor, a student, an unemployed bloke, an actor \u2013 people from all walks of life.\u201d What Weber, then an engineering student in his mid-20s, had in common with the others was that they were all diagnosed paedophiles who had come voluntarily to receive treatment at the Charit\u00e9\u2019s institute for sexual medicine. \u201cIt was amazing for me to see how different everyone was,\u201d said Weber. \u201cI\u2019d never met another paedophile before.\u201dThe institute has been running the prevention project Dunkelfeld (which means dark field) for a decade. Since 2011, it has gradually developed into a nationwide network called \u201cdon\u2019t offend\u201d. What started in Berlin has spread to 10 other cities, with more centres planned so that eventually the programme will be easily accessible for anyone in Germany.There is a radical difference between the treatment offered to paedophiles in Germany and that in other countries. Strict patient-doctor confidentiality rules mean the men can be assured they will not be reported to the police. They would only be excluded from the programme if there was an active prosecution against them. Related: Paedophilia: bringing dark desires to light \u201cI did not have to give my name and address, and I was given a pin number to connect me to my diagnosis data,\u201d Weber, his chosen pseudonym, told the Guardian in a burger bar in central Berlin.Those who run Dunkelfeld insist that the confidentiality clause is central to the unique project\u2019s success and also accounts for its popularity. \u201cAccording to the German legal code, therapists are forbidden from revealing anything that happens in the context of treatment,\u201d said Laura Kuhle, a clinical psychologist and one of Dunkelfeld\u2019s therapists. \u201cIf people mention anything in therapy that could make them criminally culpable, they are protected. In other countries, that\u2019s not the case.\u201d Kuhle is convinced that, if patients were not guaranteed that confidentiality, most would not turn up at all and those that did would not be truly honest.\u201cWe need them to be completely open about what has happened in their pasts, so that we can work with them as effectively as possible. What situations have they found themselves in? What were the individual events that led up to what\u2019s happened to them until now? You can\u2019t answer questions like that if you are afraid,\u201d Kuhle said.For Weber, who is keen to stress he has never offended although he admits to having been dangerously close to doing so, the confidentiality clause was key. \u201cI was so petrified of anyone even finding out I was thinking of doing it, because of the obvious stigma attached to being a paedophile, I memorised the telephone number before calling the centre, out of fear that someone might find the number on me. That way no one could suspect me of anything,\u201d he said. It was during puberty that Weber first recognised his sexual attraction towards young girls. \u201cI found the feelings threatening, exceptionally unpleasant, but I couldn\u2019t really put a name to them,\u201d he said. . \u201cI recognised that this had the potential to get very dangerous when I was in my early 20s, particularly after one encounter I had with a girl on a beach. I recognised I was drawn towards doing something sexual with the girl, at the same time as not wanting to do it at all because I knew it was wrong.\u201dThree times he planned to carry out what he calls \u201cconcrete assaults\u201d on young children. Three times he was prevented from doing so by a mix of circumstance and his own fear. His mother, who apparently knew nothing of his tendencies, pointed out a television advert for Dunkelfeld. The ad asked: \u201cDo you love children more than you\u2019d like to?\u201d and promised free therapy with medical confidentiality. Related: Channel 4 film features paedophile confessing attraction to children Weber took down the number and went to a phone box to ring the hotline. \u201cIt felt surreal as it was the first time in my life I had talked to anyone about it, and the woman on the other end was so friendly, she talked to me as naturally as if she was giving me a recipe for biscuits,\u201d he said. At a subsequent appointment, Weber was diagnosed as a heteropaedophile because his feelings of sexual attraction for women were clearly subordinated by a stronger attraction towards young girls. He began the weekly three-hour therapy sessions, overseen by two therapists, with between six to 10 participants. The sessions took place at the end of a normal working day and were based on cognitive behavioural therapy methods.\u201cAt the start of each session, the participants talk about their experiences of the past week and what is on their minds,\u201d said Kuhle. The treatment includes helping participants to understand the child\u2019s perspective, learning to cope in potentially difficult situations such as birthday parties, and developing ways to overcome bad habits such as viewing pornographic images or having sexual fantasies, which can increase the likelihood of a paedophile offending. \u201cSometimes,\u201d said Weber, \u201cthe survival tactics involve something as simple as saying to yourself \u2018count backwards from 100, in units of seven\u2019.\u201d But Weber was told early on that paedophilia, according to current understandings, is a non-curable mental disorder without a known cause.Sessions accordingly touched on what could realistically be changed and what would stay the same. \u201cThat was a blow, to know I couldn\u2019t be cured, but at the same time, there was relief to know it wasn\u2019t my fault,\u201d he said. \u201cVital for me was finally being able to look at myself in the mirror and say \u2018you\u2019re not a monster, you\u2019re a paedophile\u2019, and that\u2019s okay as long as you don\u2019t abuse a child.\u201dLearning to control his feelings was the most important aspect of the sessions. \u201cI am responsible for my behaviour. If someone says they can\u2019t control themselves, that\u2019s just not true.\u201d Which is not to say he didn\u2019t struggle. \u201cThere were several times I wanted to stop,\u201d he said. \u201cBecause you\u2019re taking yourself apart and putting yourself back together again with the tools to cope and it was incredibly scary.\u201dWeber, who runs a support group for non-offending paedophiles called Schicksal und Herausforderung (fate and challenge) sports a beard and a burgundy T-shirt. He is not someone who would stand out in a crowd.  Related: Reducing harm done by and to paedophiles | Letters Statistics gathered by the Charit\u00e9\u2019s therapists indicate that, of 440 paedophile patients they have so far treated, the average age is 37, 71% are employed, 39% are in relationships, while 36% are the caregivers for one or more children. They are almost always male. \u201cWe have been contacted by 17 women in the last decade. Only one of these would I say had a paedophilic disorder,\u201d said Kuhle.Perhaps surprisingly, the project has the strong backing of Germany\u2019s conservatives. The ruling Christian Democratic party (CDU) of Angela Merkel is highly supportive and pushing for health insurers to fund the therapy, which costs \u20ac5m-\u20ac8m a year. So far financing has come from government and charitable grants.In a recent policy paper on the subject, the CDU argued that the best protection for children \u201cwould be for people with a paedophilic disposition (of whom it is estimated there are around 250,000 in Germany) not to become offenders in the first place\u201d. \u201cBut in order to lessen the number of attacks by paedophiles, our healthcare system must provide sufficient and low-threshold treatment possibilities for them \u2026 on a financially sustainable and anonymous basis,\u201d it advised.By its very nature, it is almost impossible to evaluate the project\u2019s success. While a paedophile who has participated might be asked if the treatment had prevented him from offending, any answer is likely to be highly subjective and possibly unreliable. To measure its success according to the number of recorded cases of child abuse is also problematic, as those rates are known to have gone up if only because of the increasing number of abuse victims who feel prepared to come forward as the subject has become less taboo.But experts like Kuhle say the popularity of Dunkelfeld among paedophiles is proof of how vital it is. \u201cI meet many colleagues from other countries, particularly the UK and the US, who would like to introduce this therapy and are in the process of trying to roll it out, but are often hindered from doing so by the legal restrictions.\u201dAfter Channel 4 screened the documentary The Paedophile Next Door, which featured the institute\u2019s unique style of therapy, last November, Dunkelfeld\u2019s hotline was inundated with calls from Britons with paedophilic disorders. Therapists say they were frustrated at not being able to help.One British man was so desperate, he moved to Germany to be able to access a Dunkelfeld programme. In an email exchange with the Guardian, the man, who wished to remain anonymous, wrote: \u201cSo far, all I have ever received from the NHS is doors slammed in my face.\u201cDespite paedophilia being listed as a mental illness in the DSM (the standard classification of mental disorders), they don\u2019t want to help you, they just want to see you locked up or perhaps even burnt at the stake. I am so sick and tired of UK medical \u2018professionals\u2019 looking at me as if I\u2019ve grown horns and a barbed tail.\u201cI moved to Germany for therapy, I am learning German and I have a social worker helping me. (Yes, a social worker helping paedophiles!).\u201dAlthough Dunkelfeld has come in for criticism for focusing on the potential abusers rather than the abused, it has been supported by victims\u2019 groups in Germany and elsewhere. The family of April Jones, the five-year-old Welsh girl who was murdered by Mark Bridger in 2012, have appealed for help for paedophiles who seek it. \u201cIf someone says to the doctor: \u2018I have these feelings, can I have help?\u2019 it would be better to try to help them before they ruin someone else\u2019s family,\u201d Coral Jones said this year.Anne, now in her mid-20s, was abused as a child by her policeman stepfather and later discovered the man she was in a relationship with had a paedophilic disorder. She assists relatives and friends of paedophiles by helping them to access therapy. \u201cIf people search for help but can\u2019t get it, then there\u2019s something wrong with us as a society,\u201d she said. \u201cYou just have to think of the many children who I\u2019ve no doubt are saved because this therapy exists. It also prevents these men as well as the mothers and wives who so often protect them, from hiding from themselves anymore.\u201d", "tags": ["Mental health", "Health", "Society", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Child protection"], "title": "How Germany treats paedophiles before they offend"},{"date": "2015-11-13T11:25:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The eurozone\u2019s economy lost steam in the latest quarter as Portugal stalled, Germany slowed and debt-stricken Greece contracted.Gross domestic product (GDP) across the 19 countries in the single currency bloc rose just 0.3% in the third quarter, according to Eurostat. That defied expectations for growth to hold at 0.4%, according to a Reuters poll of economists. On a year earlier, GDP was up 1.6%, lower than forecasts for 1.7%.Euro area GDP +0.3% in Q3 2015, +1.6% compared with Q3 2014 #Eurostat - https://t.co/t83KcLWq89 pic.twitter.com/zwRG0uzVJhThe July to September figures mark a slowdown from eurozone GDP growth of 0.4% in the second quarter and 0.5% in the first quarter and come as the European Central Bank (ECB) hints that it is planning to inject further funds into the eurozone economy to maintain recovery.Germany, the eurozone\u2019s biggest economy, grew 0.3% as expected, but that was a notch down from 0.4% growth in the previous quarter. France\u2019s economy grew 0.3%, a rebound from no growth in the second quarter.But Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal and Finland all undershot market expectations. Greece swung from growing 0.4% in the second quarter to shrinking 0.5%.#Italy's GDP +0.2% in Q3, slightly below PMI signal. More sluggish growth signalled so far in Q4 pic.twitter.com/SEN038nZUmItaly, the bloc\u2019s third-largest economy after Germany and France, grew 0.2%, behind a Reuters poll forecast for 0.3%. GDP in the Netherlands was up a mere 0.1% against expectations of 0.3%. Portugal did not grow at all and Finland\u2019s economy shrank a larger-than-expected 0.6%. Related: Eurozone GDP: Growth slows to just 0.3% - live updates The ECB president, Mario Draghi, has previously signalled he is prepared to cut interest rates and increase quantitative easing (QE) to stave off the risk of a renewed economic slump in the eurozone. Economists said the latest figures would add to impetus for him to act on recent comments.\u201cThe euro area\u2019s pace of economic growth lost a little momentum in the third quarter, despite the additional central bank stimulus seen so far this year and a weakened, competitive, currency,\u201d said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, which compiles surveys on eurozone economies. \u201cThe subdued pace of growth and persistent weak inflation applies further pressure on the ECB and increases the likelihood of the further measures being announced in December.\u201d This early estimate of eurozone GDP does not contain any detail on what was driving growth, economists noted. But based on surveys and data out from individual countries it appeared household spending was doing the heavy lifting, they said. Meanwhile, manufacturers have been struggling with a slowdown in global demand on the back of China\u2019s downturn and turmoil in other emerging market economies.\u201cConsumers probably saved the day for the eurozone economy in the third quarter. Both the renewed fall in energy prices and the declining unemployment rate have likely boosted disposable income, supporting consumption, in our view the single most important driver of the expansion at this moment,\u201d said Peter Vanden Houte at ING Financial Markets.\u201cBottom line: the eurozone recovery is continuing, but it seems like driving with the handbrake on. With the emerging countries still in the doldrums, little acceleration is to be expected in the coming quarters.\u201d", "tags": ["Eurozone", "Economics", "Business", "Economic recovery", "France", "Germany", "Portugal", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "European Union", "Euro"], "title": "Eurozone recovery loses steam as Germany slows"},{"date": "2015-10-16T12:04:17Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The first time Max Weber made his way to Berlin to take part in a therapy session, he was so nervous he vomited on the train. \u201cI went straight home again and phoned the clinic to tell them I wouldn\u2019t make it,\u201d he said. \u201cI was so shocked by what I was doing I was shaking all over.\u201dThe second time was slightly easier. His hands were clammy and his heart was beating fast, but he took a deep breath as he stepped inside the ivy-clad red-brick building of the Charit\u00e9 hospital and climbed the stairs to meet the group. When he saw them, he got his next shock.\u201cThere were thin, fat, tall and short men, aged between 20 and 60. I found out there was a banker, a church warden, a doctor, a student, an unemployed bloke, an actor \u2013 people from all walks of life.\u201d What Weber, then an engineering student in his mid-20s, had in common with the others was that they were all diagnosed paedophiles who had come voluntarily to receive treatment at the Charit\u00e9\u2019s institute for sexual medicine. \u201cIt was amazing for me to see how different everyone was,\u201d said Weber. \u201cI\u2019d never met another paedophile before.\u201dThe institute has been running the prevention project Dunkelfeld (which means dark field) for a decade. Since 2011, it has gradually developed into a nationwide network called \u201cdon\u2019t offend\u201d. What started in Berlin has spread to 10 other cities, with more centres planned so that eventually the programme will be easily accessible for anyone in Germany.There is a radical difference between the treatment offered to paedophiles in Germany and that in other countries. Strict patient-doctor confidentiality rules mean the men can be assured they will not be reported to the police. They would only be excluded from the programme if there was an active prosecution against them. Related: Paedophilia: bringing dark desires to light \u201cI did not have to give my name and address, and I was given a pin number to connect me to my diagnosis data,\u201d Weber, his chosen pseudonym, told the Guardian in a burger bar in central Berlin.Those who run Dunkelfeld insist that the confidentiality clause is central to the unique project\u2019s success and also accounts for its popularity. \u201cAccording to the German legal code, therapists are forbidden from revealing anything that happens in the context of treatment,\u201d said Laura Kuhle, a clinical psychologist and one of Dunkelfeld\u2019s therapists. \u201cIf people mention anything in therapy that could make them criminally culpable, they are protected. In other countries, that\u2019s not the case.\u201d Kuhle is convinced that, if patients were not guaranteed that confidentiality, most would not turn up at all and those that did would not be truly honest.\u201cWe need them to be completely open about what has happened in their pasts, so that we can work with them as effectively as possible. What situations have they found themselves in? What were the individual events that led up to what\u2019s happened to them until now? You can\u2019t answer questions like that if you are afraid,\u201d Kuhle said.For Weber, who is keen to stress he has never offended although he admits to having been dangerously close to doing so, the confidentiality clause was key. \u201cI was so petrified of anyone even finding out I was thinking of doing it, because of the obvious stigma attached to being a paedophile, I memorised the telephone number before calling the centre, out of fear that someone might find the number on me. That way no one could suspect me of anything,\u201d he said. It was during puberty that Weber first recognised his sexual attraction towards young girls. \u201cI found the feelings threatening, exceptionally unpleasant, but I couldn\u2019t really put a name to them,\u201d he said. . \u201cI recognised that this had the potential to get very dangerous when I was in my early 20s, particularly after one encounter I had with a girl on a beach. I recognised I was drawn towards doing something sexual with the girl, at the same time as not wanting to do it at all because I knew it was wrong.\u201dThree times he planned to carry out what he calls \u201cconcrete assaults\u201d on young children. Three times he was prevented from doing so by a mix of circumstance and his own fear. His mother, who apparently knew nothing of his tendencies, pointed out a television advert for Dunkelfeld. The ad asked: \u201cDo you love children more than you\u2019d like to?\u201d and promised free therapy with medical confidentiality. Related: Channel 4 film features paedophile confessing attraction to children Weber took down the number and went to a phone box to ring the hotline. \u201cIt felt surreal as it was the first time in my life I had talked to anyone about it, and the woman on the other end was so friendly, she talked to me as naturally as if she was giving me a recipe for biscuits,\u201d he said. At a subsequent appointment, Weber was diagnosed as a heteropaedophile because his feelings of sexual attraction for women were clearly subordinated by a stronger attraction towards young girls. He began the weekly three-hour therapy sessions, overseen by two therapists, with between six to 10 participants. The sessions took place at the end of a normal working day and were based on cognitive behavioural therapy methods.\u201cAt the start of each session, the participants talk about their experiences of the past week and what is on their minds,\u201d said Kuhle. The treatment includes helping participants to understand the child\u2019s perspective, learning to cope in potentially difficult situations such as birthday parties, and developing ways to overcome bad habits such as viewing pornographic images or having sexual fantasies, which can increase the likelihood of a paedophile offending. \u201cSometimes,\u201d said Weber, \u201cthe survival tactics involve something as simple as saying to yourself \u2018count backwards from 100, in units of seven\u2019.\u201d But Weber was told early on that paedophilia, according to current understandings, is a non-curable mental disorder without a known cause.Sessions accordingly touched on what could realistically be changed and what would stay the same. \u201cThat was a blow, to know I couldn\u2019t be cured, but at the same time, there was relief to know it wasn\u2019t my fault,\u201d he said. \u201cVital for me was finally being able to look at myself in the mirror and say \u2018you\u2019re not a monster, you\u2019re a paedophile\u2019, and that\u2019s okay as long as you don\u2019t abuse a child.\u201dLearning to control his feelings was the most important aspect of the sessions. \u201cI am responsible for my behaviour. If someone says they can\u2019t control themselves, that\u2019s just not true.\u201d Which is not to say he didn\u2019t struggle. \u201cThere were several times I wanted to stop,\u201d he said. \u201cBecause you\u2019re taking yourself apart and putting yourself back together again with the tools to cope and it was incredibly scary.\u201dWeber, who runs a support group for non-offending paedophiles called Schicksal und Herausforderung (fate and challenge) sports a beard and a burgundy T-shirt. He is not someone who would stand out in a crowd.  Related: Reducing harm done by and to paedophiles | Letters Statistics gathered by the Charit\u00e9\u2019s therapists indicate that, of 440 paedophile patients they have so far treated, the average age is 37, 71% are employed, 39% are in relationships, while 36% are the caregivers for one or more children. They are almost always male. \u201cWe have been contacted by 17 women in the last decade. Only one of these would I say had a paedophilic disorder,\u201d said Kuhle.Perhaps surprisingly, the project has the strong backing of Germany\u2019s conservatives. The ruling Christian Democratic party (CDU) of Angela Merkel is highly supportive and pushing for health insurers to fund the therapy, which costs \u20ac5m-\u20ac8m a year. So far financing has come from government and charitable grants.In a recent policy paper on the subject, the CDU argued that the best protection for children \u201cwould be for people with a paedophilic disposition (of whom it is estimated there are around 250,000 in Germany) not to become offenders in the first place\u201d. \u201cBut in order to lessen the number of attacks by paedophiles, our healthcare system must provide sufficient and low-threshold treatment possibilities for them \u2026 on a financially sustainable and anonymous basis,\u201d it advised.By its very nature, it is almost impossible to evaluate the project\u2019s success. While a paedophile who has participated might be asked if the treatment had prevented him from offending, any answer is likely to be highly subjective and possibly unreliable. To measure its success according to the number of recorded cases of child abuse is also problematic, as those rates are known to have gone up if only because of the increasing number of abuse victims who feel prepared to come forward as the subject has become less taboo.But experts like Kuhle say the popularity of Dunkelfeld among paedophiles is proof of how vital it is. \u201cI meet many colleagues from other countries, particularly the UK and the US, who would like to introduce this therapy and are in the process of trying to roll it out, but are often hindered from doing so by the legal restrictions.\u201dAfter Channel 4 screened the documentary The Paedophile Next Door, which featured the institute\u2019s unique style of therapy, last November, Dunkelfeld\u2019s hotline was inundated with calls from Britons with paedophilic disorders. Therapists say they were frustrated at not being able to help.One British man was so desperate, he moved to Germany to be able to access a Dunkelfeld programme. In an email exchange with the Guardian, the man, who wished to remain anonymous, wrote: \u201cSo far, all I have ever received from the NHS is doors slammed in my face.\u201cDespite paedophilia being listed as a mental illness in the DSM (the standard classification of mental disorders), they don\u2019t want to help you, they just want to see you locked up or perhaps even burnt at the stake. I am so sick and tired of UK medical \u2018professionals\u2019 looking at me as if I\u2019ve grown horns and a barbed tail.\u201cI moved to Germany for therapy, I am learning German and I have a social worker helping me. (Yes, a social worker helping paedophiles!).\u201dAlthough Dunkelfeld has come in for criticism for focusing on the potential abusers rather than the abused, it has been supported by victims\u2019 groups in Germany and elsewhere. The family of April Jones, the five-year-old Welsh girl who was murdered by Mark Bridger in 2012, have appealed for help for paedophiles who seek it. \u201cIf someone says to the doctor: \u2018I have these feelings, can I have help?\u2019 it would be better to try to help them before they ruin someone else\u2019s family,\u201d Coral Jones said this year.Anne, now in her mid-20s, was abused as a child by her policeman stepfather and later discovered the man she was in a relationship with had a paedophilic disorder. She assists relatives and friends of paedophiles by helping them to access therapy. \u201cIf people search for help but can\u2019t get it, then there\u2019s something wrong with us as a society,\u201d she said. \u201cYou just have to think of the many children who I\u2019ve no doubt are saved because this therapy exists. It also prevents these men as well as the mothers and wives who so often protect them, from hiding from themselves anymore.\u201d", "tags": ["Mental health", "Health", "Society", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Child protection"], "title": "How Germany treats paedophiles before they offend"},{"date": "2015-10-14T20:30:18Z", "country": "germany", "content": "An intense heatwave in southern California smashed records last Friday as temperatures topped 40C (104F). The mercury peaked at 42C at Camarillo airport, beating the previous all-time record of 39.5C set in September 1976.Temperatures for October are usually around 25C for south California but were 10C to 20C higher than normal in many places, causing circuits to overheat and leaving about 9,000 people without power Friday and Saturday evening.The heatwave was the result of an area of high pressure located over the south-west US, pulling in hot, dry, air from the desert interior.By contrast, southern areas of Saskatchewan, Canada, were hit by extreme winds Sunday afternoon as a very active cold front swept through the region. The strongest winds gusted at over 75mph in the city of Swift Current. Trucks were blown over and some roofs lost, while toppling trees damaged power lines and led to numerous power cuts.Meanwhile, an early blast of winter hit parts of Europe this week. Very cold air in western Russia pushed into central Europe on Monday and Tuesday, steered by a large area of high pressure across Scandinavia. Germany bore the brunt of the cold with snow reported even in low lying areas on Tuesday night.Snow in October is common in the mountains but rare across low ground; snow below 200 metres was reported in places. Overnight frosts were widespread and daytime temperatures on Tuesday seldom reached 4C or 5C in many places. The unseasonable cold is expected to slowly release its grip in the next few days.", "tags": ["Meteorology", "California", "Snow", "US news", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Early ambush of winter chill for Germany"},{"date": "2015-11-13T11:25:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The eurozone\u2019s economy lost steam in the latest quarter as Portugal stalled, Germany slowed and debt-stricken Greece contracted.Gross domestic product (GDP) across the 19 countries in the single currency bloc rose just 0.3% in the third quarter, according to Eurostat. That defied expectations for growth to hold at 0.4%, according to a Reuters poll of economists. On a year earlier, GDP was up 1.6%, lower than forecasts for 1.7%.Euro area GDP +0.3% in Q3 2015, +1.6% compared with Q3 2014 #Eurostat - https://t.co/t83KcLWq89 pic.twitter.com/zwRG0uzVJhThe July to September figures mark a slowdown from eurozone GDP growth of 0.4% in the second quarter and 0.5% in the first quarter and come as the European Central Bank (ECB) hints that it is planning to inject further funds into the eurozone economy to maintain recovery.Germany, the eurozone\u2019s biggest economy, grew 0.3% as expected, but that was a notch down from 0.4% growth in the previous quarter. France\u2019s economy grew 0.3%, a rebound from no growth in the second quarter.But Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal and Finland all undershot market expectations. Greece swung from growing 0.4% in the second quarter to shrinking 0.5%.#Italy's GDP +0.2% in Q3, slightly below PMI signal. More sluggish growth signalled so far in Q4 pic.twitter.com/SEN038nZUmItaly, the bloc\u2019s third-largest economy after Germany and France, grew 0.2%, behind a Reuters poll forecast for 0.3%. GDP in the Netherlands was up a mere 0.1% against expectations of 0.3%. Portugal did not grow at all and Finland\u2019s economy shrank a larger-than-expected 0.6%. Related: Eurozone GDP: Growth slows to just 0.3% - live updates The ECB president, Mario Draghi, has previously signalled he is prepared to cut interest rates and increase quantitative easing (QE) to stave off the risk of a renewed economic slump in the eurozone. Economists said the latest figures would add to impetus for him to act on recent comments.\u201cThe euro area\u2019s pace of economic growth lost a little momentum in the third quarter, despite the additional central bank stimulus seen so far this year and a weakened, competitive, currency,\u201d said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, which compiles surveys on eurozone economies. \u201cThe subdued pace of growth and persistent weak inflation applies further pressure on the ECB and increases the likelihood of the further measures being announced in December.\u201d This early estimate of eurozone GDP does not contain any detail on what was driving growth, economists noted. But based on surveys and data out from individual countries it appeared household spending was doing the heavy lifting, they said. Meanwhile, manufacturers have been struggling with a slowdown in global demand on the back of China\u2019s downturn and turmoil in other emerging market economies.\u201cConsumers probably saved the day for the eurozone economy in the third quarter. Both the renewed fall in energy prices and the declining unemployment rate have likely boosted disposable income, supporting consumption, in our view the single most important driver of the expansion at this moment,\u201d said Peter Vanden Houte at ING Financial Markets.\u201cBottom line: the eurozone recovery is continuing, but it seems like driving with the handbrake on. With the emerging countries still in the doldrums, little acceleration is to be expected in the coming quarters.\u201d", "tags": ["Eurozone", "Economics", "Business", "Economic recovery", "France", "Germany", "Portugal", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "European Union", "Euro"], "title": "Eurozone recovery loses steam as Germany slows"},{"date": "2015-10-16T12:04:17Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The first time Max Weber made his way to Berlin to take part in a therapy session, he was so nervous he vomited on the train. \u201cI went straight home again and phoned the clinic to tell them I wouldn\u2019t make it,\u201d he said. \u201cI was so shocked by what I was doing I was shaking all over.\u201dThe second time was slightly easier. His hands were clammy and his heart was beating fast, but he took a deep breath as he stepped inside the ivy-clad red-brick building of the Charit\u00e9 hospital and climbed the stairs to meet the group. When he saw them, he got his next shock.\u201cThere were thin, fat, tall and short men, aged between 20 and 60. I found out there was a banker, a church warden, a doctor, a student, an unemployed bloke, an actor \u2013 people from all walks of life.\u201d What Weber, then an engineering student in his mid-20s, had in common with the others was that they were all diagnosed paedophiles who had come voluntarily to receive treatment at the Charit\u00e9\u2019s institute for sexual medicine. \u201cIt was amazing for me to see how different everyone was,\u201d said Weber. \u201cI\u2019d never met another paedophile before.\u201dThe institute has been running the prevention project Dunkelfeld (which means dark field) for a decade. Since 2011, it has gradually developed into a nationwide network called \u201cdon\u2019t offend\u201d. What started in Berlin has spread to 10 other cities, with more centres planned so that eventually the programme will be easily accessible for anyone in Germany.There is a radical difference between the treatment offered to paedophiles in Germany and that in other countries. Strict patient-doctor confidentiality rules mean the men can be assured they will not be reported to the police. They would only be excluded from the programme if there was an active prosecution against them. Related: Paedophilia: bringing dark desires to light \u201cI did not have to give my name and address, and I was given a pin number to connect me to my diagnosis data,\u201d Weber, his chosen pseudonym, told the Guardian in a burger bar in central Berlin.Those who run Dunkelfeld insist that the confidentiality clause is central to the unique project\u2019s success and also accounts for its popularity. \u201cAccording to the German legal code, therapists are forbidden from revealing anything that happens in the context of treatment,\u201d said Laura Kuhle, a clinical psychologist and one of Dunkelfeld\u2019s therapists. \u201cIf people mention anything in therapy that could make them criminally culpable, they are protected. In other countries, that\u2019s not the case.\u201d Kuhle is convinced that, if patients were not guaranteed that confidentiality, most would not turn up at all and those that did would not be truly honest.\u201cWe need them to be completely open about what has happened in their pasts, so that we can work with them as effectively as possible. What situations have they found themselves in? What were the individual events that led up to what\u2019s happened to them until now? You can\u2019t answer questions like that if you are afraid,\u201d Kuhle said.For Weber, who is keen to stress he has never offended although he admits to having been dangerously close to doing so, the confidentiality clause was key. \u201cI was so petrified of anyone even finding out I was thinking of doing it, because of the obvious stigma attached to being a paedophile, I memorised the telephone number before calling the centre, out of fear that someone might find the number on me. That way no one could suspect me of anything,\u201d he said. It was during puberty that Weber first recognised his sexual attraction towards young girls. \u201cI found the feelings threatening, exceptionally unpleasant, but I couldn\u2019t really put a name to them,\u201d he said. . \u201cI recognised that this had the potential to get very dangerous when I was in my early 20s, particularly after one encounter I had with a girl on a beach. I recognised I was drawn towards doing something sexual with the girl, at the same time as not wanting to do it at all because I knew it was wrong.\u201dThree times he planned to carry out what he calls \u201cconcrete assaults\u201d on young children. Three times he was prevented from doing so by a mix of circumstance and his own fear. His mother, who apparently knew nothing of his tendencies, pointed out a television advert for Dunkelfeld. The ad asked: \u201cDo you love children more than you\u2019d like to?\u201d and promised free therapy with medical confidentiality. Related: Channel 4 film features paedophile confessing attraction to children Weber took down the number and went to a phone box to ring the hotline. \u201cIt felt surreal as it was the first time in my life I had talked to anyone about it, and the woman on the other end was so friendly, she talked to me as naturally as if she was giving me a recipe for biscuits,\u201d he said. At a subsequent appointment, Weber was diagnosed as a heteropaedophile because his feelings of sexual attraction for women were clearly subordinated by a stronger attraction towards young girls. He began the weekly three-hour therapy sessions, overseen by two therapists, with between six to 10 participants. The sessions took place at the end of a normal working day and were based on cognitive behavioural therapy methods.\u201cAt the start of each session, the participants talk about their experiences of the past week and what is on their minds,\u201d said Kuhle. The treatment includes helping participants to understand the child\u2019s perspective, learning to cope in potentially difficult situations such as birthday parties, and developing ways to overcome bad habits such as viewing pornographic images or having sexual fantasies, which can increase the likelihood of a paedophile offending. \u201cSometimes,\u201d said Weber, \u201cthe survival tactics involve something as simple as saying to yourself \u2018count backwards from 100, in units of seven\u2019.\u201d But Weber was told early on that paedophilia, according to current understandings, is a non-curable mental disorder without a known cause.Sessions accordingly touched on what could realistically be changed and what would stay the same. \u201cThat was a blow, to know I couldn\u2019t be cured, but at the same time, there was relief to know it wasn\u2019t my fault,\u201d he said. \u201cVital for me was finally being able to look at myself in the mirror and say \u2018you\u2019re not a monster, you\u2019re a paedophile\u2019, and that\u2019s okay as long as you don\u2019t abuse a child.\u201dLearning to control his feelings was the most important aspect of the sessions. \u201cI am responsible for my behaviour. If someone says they can\u2019t control themselves, that\u2019s just not true.\u201d Which is not to say he didn\u2019t struggle. \u201cThere were several times I wanted to stop,\u201d he said. \u201cBecause you\u2019re taking yourself apart and putting yourself back together again with the tools to cope and it was incredibly scary.\u201dWeber, who runs a support group for non-offending paedophiles called Schicksal und Herausforderung (fate and challenge) sports a beard and a burgundy T-shirt. He is not someone who would stand out in a crowd.  Related: Reducing harm done by and to paedophiles | Letters Statistics gathered by the Charit\u00e9\u2019s therapists indicate that, of 440 paedophile patients they have so far treated, the average age is 37, 71% are employed, 39% are in relationships, while 36% are the caregivers for one or more children. They are almost always male. \u201cWe have been contacted by 17 women in the last decade. Only one of these would I say had a paedophilic disorder,\u201d said Kuhle.Perhaps surprisingly, the project has the strong backing of Germany\u2019s conservatives. The ruling Christian Democratic party (CDU) of Angela Merkel is highly supportive and pushing for health insurers to fund the therapy, which costs \u20ac5m-\u20ac8m a year. So far financing has come from government and charitable grants.In a recent policy paper on the subject, the CDU argued that the best protection for children \u201cwould be for people with a paedophilic disposition (of whom it is estimated there are around 250,000 in Germany) not to become offenders in the first place\u201d. \u201cBut in order to lessen the number of attacks by paedophiles, our healthcare system must provide sufficient and low-threshold treatment possibilities for them \u2026 on a financially sustainable and anonymous basis,\u201d it advised.By its very nature, it is almost impossible to evaluate the project\u2019s success. While a paedophile who has participated might be asked if the treatment had prevented him from offending, any answer is likely to be highly subjective and possibly unreliable. To measure its success according to the number of recorded cases of child abuse is also problematic, as those rates are known to have gone up if only because of the increasing number of abuse victims who feel prepared to come forward as the subject has become less taboo.But experts like Kuhle say the popularity of Dunkelfeld among paedophiles is proof of how vital it is. \u201cI meet many colleagues from other countries, particularly the UK and the US, who would like to introduce this therapy and are in the process of trying to roll it out, but are often hindered from doing so by the legal restrictions.\u201dAfter Channel 4 screened the documentary The Paedophile Next Door, which featured the institute\u2019s unique style of therapy, last November, Dunkelfeld\u2019s hotline was inundated with calls from Britons with paedophilic disorders. Therapists say they were frustrated at not being able to help.One British man was so desperate, he moved to Germany to be able to access a Dunkelfeld programme. In an email exchange with the Guardian, the man, who wished to remain anonymous, wrote: \u201cSo far, all I have ever received from the NHS is doors slammed in my face.\u201cDespite paedophilia being listed as a mental illness in the DSM (the standard classification of mental disorders), they don\u2019t want to help you, they just want to see you locked up or perhaps even burnt at the stake. I am so sick and tired of UK medical \u2018professionals\u2019 looking at me as if I\u2019ve grown horns and a barbed tail.\u201cI moved to Germany for therapy, I am learning German and I have a social worker helping me. (Yes, a social worker helping paedophiles!).\u201dAlthough Dunkelfeld has come in for criticism for focusing on the potential abusers rather than the abused, it has been supported by victims\u2019 groups in Germany and elsewhere. The family of April Jones, the five-year-old Welsh girl who was murdered by Mark Bridger in 2012, have appealed for help for paedophiles who seek it. \u201cIf someone says to the doctor: \u2018I have these feelings, can I have help?\u2019 it would be better to try to help them before they ruin someone else\u2019s family,\u201d Coral Jones said this year.Anne, now in her mid-20s, was abused as a child by her policeman stepfather and later discovered the man she was in a relationship with had a paedophilic disorder. She assists relatives and friends of paedophiles by helping them to access therapy. \u201cIf people search for help but can\u2019t get it, then there\u2019s something wrong with us as a society,\u201d she said. \u201cYou just have to think of the many children who I\u2019ve no doubt are saved because this therapy exists. It also prevents these men as well as the mothers and wives who so often protect them, from hiding from themselves anymore.\u201d", "tags": ["Mental health", "Health", "Society", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Child protection"], "title": "How Germany treats paedophiles before they offend"},{"date": "2015-10-14T20:30:18Z", "country": "germany", "content": "An intense heatwave in southern California smashed records last Friday as temperatures topped 40C (104F). The mercury peaked at 42C at Camarillo airport, beating the previous all-time record of 39.5C set in September 1976.Temperatures for October are usually around 25C for south California but were 10C to 20C higher than normal in many places, causing circuits to overheat and leaving about 9,000 people without power Friday and Saturday evening.The heatwave was the result of an area of high pressure located over the south-west US, pulling in hot, dry, air from the desert interior.By contrast, southern areas of Saskatchewan, Canada, were hit by extreme winds Sunday afternoon as a very active cold front swept through the region. The strongest winds gusted at over 75mph in the city of Swift Current. Trucks were blown over and some roofs lost, while toppling trees damaged power lines and led to numerous power cuts.Meanwhile, an early blast of winter hit parts of Europe this week. Very cold air in western Russia pushed into central Europe on Monday and Tuesday, steered by a large area of high pressure across Scandinavia. Germany bore the brunt of the cold with snow reported even in low lying areas on Tuesday night.Snow in October is common in the mountains but rare across low ground; snow below 200 metres was reported in places. Overnight frosts were widespread and daytime temperatures on Tuesday seldom reached 4C or 5C in many places. The unseasonable cold is expected to slowly release its grip in the next few days.", "tags": ["Meteorology", "California", "Snow", "US news", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Early ambush of winter chill for Germany"},{"date": "2015-10-02T15:00:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "I only ever went walking on Sundays. In 1985, my husband Rolf and I were running a wholesale cheese shop and a market stall. It was hard work \u2013 six days a week, from morning to evening. Sunday was our day off, so, with our two children grown up, the two of us would catch a bus and go for walks around the city. I would wear my fur coat. I had my everyday clothes for work days, but my coat was special. Nobody wears real fur any more, but we did back then. It was cold; you can see the snow on the ground.Essen is an industrial city. I\u2019m standing on a road bridge that spans a motorway \u2013 it cuts Essen in two, north and south. We lived on the edge of the city in a leafy garden neighbourhood called Margarethenh\u00f6he. At the time, the photographer, Rudi Meisel, lived around the corner: his flat overlooked our balcony. He was a student, and we had got to know him a little from our market stall. Yet I never knew he\u2019d taken a photograph of me that day, and neither did he.Many years later, when we had become friends, he dropped a get-well card for Rolf through our letterbox; he had just come out of hospital. It was a postcard made from one of his own photographs following an exhibition years earlier. To my utter amazement, there I was. It was a total coincidence. The picture was just a passing snapshot, a reflex, Rudi told me; he took it quickly, spoke to no one and moved on, not knowing if the light or the composition were any good.It\u2019s such an ordinary scene that I sometimes wonder why people care. But this sort of spontaneous \u201cstreet\u201d photography depicts real life, and that\u2019s always interesting. It tells you what everyday life was like back then. I often think I should know the two girls in the foreground, but I don\u2019t recognise them. And I\u2019ve always wondered about the case with the American flag on it: it was a real icon in Germany then, so it could have caught Rudi\u2019s eye. Related: Nazarena Arg\u00fcello at the San Fermin festival, Pamplona, 2015 The picture was part of a project he was doing, photographing people in West and East Germany, and comparing the two. We weren\u2019t particularly interested in East Germany then \u2013 it seemed so far away, and my main impression of it was of a country whose people were suffering. But many East Germans will tell you otherwise.We did visit once, in the 1960s: a distant uncle in East Berlin. We took a bus from West Berlin across the border, just for the day. My abiding memory is of no flowers, no colour and no fun. When the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, we visited the former East often, particularly cities such as Dresden and the northern lake district of Mecklenburg. The people and the scenery were wonderful.We still live in the same flat in Essen, and have now been there for 50 years. We retired a couple of years ago, but still go walking.", "tags": ["Photography", "Art and design", "Germany", "Culture", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Brigitte Kleinekath\u00f6fer, Essen, West Germany, 1985"},{"date": "2015-11-13T11:25:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The eurozone\u2019s economy lost steam in the latest quarter as Portugal stalled, Germany slowed and debt-stricken Greece contracted.Gross domestic product (GDP) across the 19 countries in the single currency bloc rose just 0.3% in the third quarter, according to Eurostat. That defied expectations for growth to hold at 0.4%, according to a Reuters poll of economists. On a year earlier, GDP was up 1.6%, lower than forecasts for 1.7%.Euro area GDP +0.3% in Q3 2015, +1.6% compared with Q3 2014 #Eurostat - https://t.co/t83KcLWq89 pic.twitter.com/zwRG0uzVJhThe July to September figures mark a slowdown from eurozone GDP growth of 0.4% in the second quarter and 0.5% in the first quarter and come as the European Central Bank (ECB) hints that it is planning to inject further funds into the eurozone economy to maintain recovery.Germany, the eurozone\u2019s biggest economy, grew 0.3% as expected, but that was a notch down from 0.4% growth in the previous quarter. France\u2019s economy grew 0.3%, a rebound from no growth in the second quarter.But Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal and Finland all undershot market expectations. Greece swung from growing 0.4% in the second quarter to shrinking 0.5%.#Italy's GDP +0.2% in Q3, slightly below PMI signal. More sluggish growth signalled so far in Q4 pic.twitter.com/SEN038nZUmItaly, the bloc\u2019s third-largest economy after Germany and France, grew 0.2%, behind a Reuters poll forecast for 0.3%. GDP in the Netherlands was up a mere 0.1% against expectations of 0.3%. Portugal did not grow at all and Finland\u2019s economy shrank a larger-than-expected 0.6%. Related: Eurozone GDP: Growth slows to just 0.3% - live updates The ECB president, Mario Draghi, has previously signalled he is prepared to cut interest rates and increase quantitative easing (QE) to stave off the risk of a renewed economic slump in the eurozone. Economists said the latest figures would add to impetus for him to act on recent comments.\u201cThe euro area\u2019s pace of economic growth lost a little momentum in the third quarter, despite the additional central bank stimulus seen so far this year and a weakened, competitive, currency,\u201d said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, which compiles surveys on eurozone economies. \u201cThe subdued pace of growth and persistent weak inflation applies further pressure on the ECB and increases the likelihood of the further measures being announced in December.\u201d This early estimate of eurozone GDP does not contain any detail on what was driving growth, economists noted. But based on surveys and data out from individual countries it appeared household spending was doing the heavy lifting, they said. Meanwhile, manufacturers have been struggling with a slowdown in global demand on the back of China\u2019s downturn and turmoil in other emerging market economies.\u201cConsumers probably saved the day for the eurozone economy in the third quarter. Both the renewed fall in energy prices and the declining unemployment rate have likely boosted disposable income, supporting consumption, in our view the single most important driver of the expansion at this moment,\u201d said Peter Vanden Houte at ING Financial Markets.\u201cBottom line: the eurozone recovery is continuing, but it seems like driving with the handbrake on. With the emerging countries still in the doldrums, little acceleration is to be expected in the coming quarters.\u201d", "tags": ["Eurozone", "Economics", "Business", "Economic recovery", "France", "Germany", "Portugal", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "European Union", "Euro"], "title": "Eurozone recovery loses steam as Germany slows"},{"date": "2015-10-16T12:04:17Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The first time Max Weber made his way to Berlin to take part in a therapy session, he was so nervous he vomited on the train. \u201cI went straight home again and phoned the clinic to tell them I wouldn\u2019t make it,\u201d he said. \u201cI was so shocked by what I was doing I was shaking all over.\u201dThe second time was slightly easier. His hands were clammy and his heart was beating fast, but he took a deep breath as he stepped inside the ivy-clad red-brick building of the Charit\u00e9 hospital and climbed the stairs to meet the group. When he saw them, he got his next shock.\u201cThere were thin, fat, tall and short men, aged between 20 and 60. I found out there was a banker, a church warden, a doctor, a student, an unemployed bloke, an actor \u2013 people from all walks of life.\u201d What Weber, then an engineering student in his mid-20s, had in common with the others was that they were all diagnosed paedophiles who had come voluntarily to receive treatment at the Charit\u00e9\u2019s institute for sexual medicine. \u201cIt was amazing for me to see how different everyone was,\u201d said Weber. \u201cI\u2019d never met another paedophile before.\u201dThe institute has been running the prevention project Dunkelfeld (which means dark field) for a decade. Since 2011, it has gradually developed into a nationwide network called \u201cdon\u2019t offend\u201d. What started in Berlin has spread to 10 other cities, with more centres planned so that eventually the programme will be easily accessible for anyone in Germany.There is a radical difference between the treatment offered to paedophiles in Germany and that in other countries. Strict patient-doctor confidentiality rules mean the men can be assured they will not be reported to the police. They would only be excluded from the programme if there was an active prosecution against them. Related: Paedophilia: bringing dark desires to light \u201cI did not have to give my name and address, and I was given a pin number to connect me to my diagnosis data,\u201d Weber, his chosen pseudonym, told the Guardian in a burger bar in central Berlin.Those who run Dunkelfeld insist that the confidentiality clause is central to the unique project\u2019s success and also accounts for its popularity. \u201cAccording to the German legal code, therapists are forbidden from revealing anything that happens in the context of treatment,\u201d said Laura Kuhle, a clinical psychologist and one of Dunkelfeld\u2019s therapists. \u201cIf people mention anything in therapy that could make them criminally culpable, they are protected. In other countries, that\u2019s not the case.\u201d Kuhle is convinced that, if patients were not guaranteed that confidentiality, most would not turn up at all and those that did would not be truly honest.\u201cWe need them to be completely open about what has happened in their pasts, so that we can work with them as effectively as possible. What situations have they found themselves in? What were the individual events that led up to what\u2019s happened to them until now? You can\u2019t answer questions like that if you are afraid,\u201d Kuhle said.For Weber, who is keen to stress he has never offended although he admits to having been dangerously close to doing so, the confidentiality clause was key. \u201cI was so petrified of anyone even finding out I was thinking of doing it, because of the obvious stigma attached to being a paedophile, I memorised the telephone number before calling the centre, out of fear that someone might find the number on me. That way no one could suspect me of anything,\u201d he said. It was during puberty that Weber first recognised his sexual attraction towards young girls. \u201cI found the feelings threatening, exceptionally unpleasant, but I couldn\u2019t really put a name to them,\u201d he said. . \u201cI recognised that this had the potential to get very dangerous when I was in my early 20s, particularly after one encounter I had with a girl on a beach. I recognised I was drawn towards doing something sexual with the girl, at the same time as not wanting to do it at all because I knew it was wrong.\u201dThree times he planned to carry out what he calls \u201cconcrete assaults\u201d on young children. Three times he was prevented from doing so by a mix of circumstance and his own fear. His mother, who apparently knew nothing of his tendencies, pointed out a television advert for Dunkelfeld. The ad asked: \u201cDo you love children more than you\u2019d like to?\u201d and promised free therapy with medical confidentiality. Related: Channel 4 film features paedophile confessing attraction to children Weber took down the number and went to a phone box to ring the hotline. \u201cIt felt surreal as it was the first time in my life I had talked to anyone about it, and the woman on the other end was so friendly, she talked to me as naturally as if she was giving me a recipe for biscuits,\u201d he said. At a subsequent appointment, Weber was diagnosed as a heteropaedophile because his feelings of sexual attraction for women were clearly subordinated by a stronger attraction towards young girls. He began the weekly three-hour therapy sessions, overseen by two therapists, with between six to 10 participants. The sessions took place at the end of a normal working day and were based on cognitive behavioural therapy methods.\u201cAt the start of each session, the participants talk about their experiences of the past week and what is on their minds,\u201d said Kuhle. The treatment includes helping participants to understand the child\u2019s perspective, learning to cope in potentially difficult situations such as birthday parties, and developing ways to overcome bad habits such as viewing pornographic images or having sexual fantasies, which can increase the likelihood of a paedophile offending. \u201cSometimes,\u201d said Weber, \u201cthe survival tactics involve something as simple as saying to yourself \u2018count backwards from 100, in units of seven\u2019.\u201d But Weber was told early on that paedophilia, according to current understandings, is a non-curable mental disorder without a known cause.Sessions accordingly touched on what could realistically be changed and what would stay the same. \u201cThat was a blow, to know I couldn\u2019t be cured, but at the same time, there was relief to know it wasn\u2019t my fault,\u201d he said. \u201cVital for me was finally being able to look at myself in the mirror and say \u2018you\u2019re not a monster, you\u2019re a paedophile\u2019, and that\u2019s okay as long as you don\u2019t abuse a child.\u201dLearning to control his feelings was the most important aspect of the sessions. \u201cI am responsible for my behaviour. If someone says they can\u2019t control themselves, that\u2019s just not true.\u201d Which is not to say he didn\u2019t struggle. \u201cThere were several times I wanted to stop,\u201d he said. \u201cBecause you\u2019re taking yourself apart and putting yourself back together again with the tools to cope and it was incredibly scary.\u201dWeber, who runs a support group for non-offending paedophiles called Schicksal und Herausforderung (fate and challenge) sports a beard and a burgundy T-shirt. He is not someone who would stand out in a crowd.  Related: Reducing harm done by and to paedophiles | Letters Statistics gathered by the Charit\u00e9\u2019s therapists indicate that, of 440 paedophile patients they have so far treated, the average age is 37, 71% are employed, 39% are in relationships, while 36% are the caregivers for one or more children. They are almost always male. \u201cWe have been contacted by 17 women in the last decade. Only one of these would I say had a paedophilic disorder,\u201d said Kuhle.Perhaps surprisingly, the project has the strong backing of Germany\u2019s conservatives. The ruling Christian Democratic party (CDU) of Angela Merkel is highly supportive and pushing for health insurers to fund the therapy, which costs \u20ac5m-\u20ac8m a year. So far financing has come from government and charitable grants.In a recent policy paper on the subject, the CDU argued that the best protection for children \u201cwould be for people with a paedophilic disposition (of whom it is estimated there are around 250,000 in Germany) not to become offenders in the first place\u201d. \u201cBut in order to lessen the number of attacks by paedophiles, our healthcare system must provide sufficient and low-threshold treatment possibilities for them \u2026 on a financially sustainable and anonymous basis,\u201d it advised.By its very nature, it is almost impossible to evaluate the project\u2019s success. While a paedophile who has participated might be asked if the treatment had prevented him from offending, any answer is likely to be highly subjective and possibly unreliable. To measure its success according to the number of recorded cases of child abuse is also problematic, as those rates are known to have gone up if only because of the increasing number of abuse victims who feel prepared to come forward as the subject has become less taboo.But experts like Kuhle say the popularity of Dunkelfeld among paedophiles is proof of how vital it is. \u201cI meet many colleagues from other countries, particularly the UK and the US, who would like to introduce this therapy and are in the process of trying to roll it out, but are often hindered from doing so by the legal restrictions.\u201dAfter Channel 4 screened the documentary The Paedophile Next Door, which featured the institute\u2019s unique style of therapy, last November, Dunkelfeld\u2019s hotline was inundated with calls from Britons with paedophilic disorders. Therapists say they were frustrated at not being able to help.One British man was so desperate, he moved to Germany to be able to access a Dunkelfeld programme. In an email exchange with the Guardian, the man, who wished to remain anonymous, wrote: \u201cSo far, all I have ever received from the NHS is doors slammed in my face.\u201cDespite paedophilia being listed as a mental illness in the DSM (the standard classification of mental disorders), they don\u2019t want to help you, they just want to see you locked up or perhaps even burnt at the stake. I am so sick and tired of UK medical \u2018professionals\u2019 looking at me as if I\u2019ve grown horns and a barbed tail.\u201cI moved to Germany for therapy, I am learning German and I have a social worker helping me. (Yes, a social worker helping paedophiles!).\u201dAlthough Dunkelfeld has come in for criticism for focusing on the potential abusers rather than the abused, it has been supported by victims\u2019 groups in Germany and elsewhere. The family of April Jones, the five-year-old Welsh girl who was murdered by Mark Bridger in 2012, have appealed for help for paedophiles who seek it. \u201cIf someone says to the doctor: \u2018I have these feelings, can I have help?\u2019 it would be better to try to help them before they ruin someone else\u2019s family,\u201d Coral Jones said this year.Anne, now in her mid-20s, was abused as a child by her policeman stepfather and later discovered the man she was in a relationship with had a paedophilic disorder. She assists relatives and friends of paedophiles by helping them to access therapy. \u201cIf people search for help but can\u2019t get it, then there\u2019s something wrong with us as a society,\u201d she said. \u201cYou just have to think of the many children who I\u2019ve no doubt are saved because this therapy exists. It also prevents these men as well as the mothers and wives who so often protect them, from hiding from themselves anymore.\u201d", "tags": ["Mental health", "Health", "Society", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Child protection"], "title": "How Germany treats paedophiles before they offend"},{"date": "2015-10-14T20:30:18Z", "country": "germany", "content": "An intense heatwave in southern California smashed records last Friday as temperatures topped 40C (104F). The mercury peaked at 42C at Camarillo airport, beating the previous all-time record of 39.5C set in September 1976.Temperatures for October are usually around 25C for south California but were 10C to 20C higher than normal in many places, causing circuits to overheat and leaving about 9,000 people without power Friday and Saturday evening.The heatwave was the result of an area of high pressure located over the south-west US, pulling in hot, dry, air from the desert interior.By contrast, southern areas of Saskatchewan, Canada, were hit by extreme winds Sunday afternoon as a very active cold front swept through the region. The strongest winds gusted at over 75mph in the city of Swift Current. Trucks were blown over and some roofs lost, while toppling trees damaged power lines and led to numerous power cuts.Meanwhile, an early blast of winter hit parts of Europe this week. Very cold air in western Russia pushed into central Europe on Monday and Tuesday, steered by a large area of high pressure across Scandinavia. Germany bore the brunt of the cold with snow reported even in low lying areas on Tuesday night.Snow in October is common in the mountains but rare across low ground; snow below 200 metres was reported in places. Overnight frosts were widespread and daytime temperatures on Tuesday seldom reached 4C or 5C in many places. The unseasonable cold is expected to slowly release its grip in the next few days.", "tags": ["Meteorology", "California", "Snow", "US news", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Early ambush of winter chill for Germany"},{"date": "2015-10-02T15:00:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "I only ever went walking on Sundays. In 1985, my husband Rolf and I were running a wholesale cheese shop and a market stall. It was hard work \u2013 six days a week, from morning to evening. Sunday was our day off, so, with our two children grown up, the two of us would catch a bus and go for walks around the city. I would wear my fur coat. I had my everyday clothes for work days, but my coat was special. Nobody wears real fur any more, but we did back then. It was cold; you can see the snow on the ground.Essen is an industrial city. I\u2019m standing on a road bridge that spans a motorway \u2013 it cuts Essen in two, north and south. We lived on the edge of the city in a leafy garden neighbourhood called Margarethenh\u00f6he. At the time, the photographer, Rudi Meisel, lived around the corner: his flat overlooked our balcony. He was a student, and we had got to know him a little from our market stall. Yet I never knew he\u2019d taken a photograph of me that day, and neither did he.Many years later, when we had become friends, he dropped a get-well card for Rolf through our letterbox; he had just come out of hospital. It was a postcard made from one of his own photographs following an exhibition years earlier. To my utter amazement, there I was. It was a total coincidence. The picture was just a passing snapshot, a reflex, Rudi told me; he took it quickly, spoke to no one and moved on, not knowing if the light or the composition were any good.It\u2019s such an ordinary scene that I sometimes wonder why people care. But this sort of spontaneous \u201cstreet\u201d photography depicts real life, and that\u2019s always interesting. It tells you what everyday life was like back then. I often think I should know the two girls in the foreground, but I don\u2019t recognise them. And I\u2019ve always wondered about the case with the American flag on it: it was a real icon in Germany then, so it could have caught Rudi\u2019s eye. Related: Nazarena Arg\u00fcello at the San Fermin festival, Pamplona, 2015 The picture was part of a project he was doing, photographing people in West and East Germany, and comparing the two. We weren\u2019t particularly interested in East Germany then \u2013 it seemed so far away, and my main impression of it was of a country whose people were suffering. But many East Germans will tell you otherwise.We did visit once, in the 1960s: a distant uncle in East Berlin. We took a bus from West Berlin across the border, just for the day. My abiding memory is of no flowers, no colour and no fun. When the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, we visited the former East often, particularly cities such as Dresden and the northern lake district of Mecklenburg. The people and the scenery were wonderful.We still live in the same flat in Essen, and have now been there for 50 years. We retired a couple of years ago, but still go walking.", "tags": ["Photography", "Art and design", "Germany", "Culture", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Brigitte Kleinekath\u00f6fer, Essen, West Germany, 1985"},{"date": "2015-11-30T07:21:11Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Months of European efforts to come up with common policies on mass immigration unravelled on Sunday when Germany led a \u201ccoalition of the willing\u201d of nine EU countries taking in most refugees from the Middle East, splitting the union formally on the issues of mandatory refugee-sharing and funding.An unprecedented full EU summit with Turkey agreed a fragile pact aimed at stemming the flow of migrants to Europe via Turkey.But the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, frustrated by the resistance in Europe to her policies, also convened a separate mini-summit with seven other leaders to push a fast-track deal with the Turks and to press ahead with a new policy of taking in and sharing hundreds of thousands of refugees a year directly from Turkey.The surprise mini-summit suggested that Merkel has given up on trying to persuade her opponents, mostly in eastern Europe, to join a mandatory refugee-sharing scheme across the EU, although she is also expected to use the pro-quotas coalition to pressure the naysayers into joining later.Merkel\u2019s ally on the new policy, Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European commission, said of the mini-summit: \u201cThis is a meeting of those states which are prepared to take in large numbers of refugees from Turkey legally.\u201d Related: Hiding in plain sight: inside the world of Turkey's people smugglers But he added later that any such agreement would be voluntary and not binding, while the Dutch rejected German-led calls to resettle large numbers directly from Turkey.The frictions triggered by the split were instantly apparent. Donald Tusk, the president of the European council who chaired the full summit with Turkey, contradicted the mainly west European emphasis on seeing Ankara as the best hope of slowing the mass migration to Europe. \u201cLet us not be naive. Turkey is not the only key to solving the migration crisis,\u201d said Tusk. \u201cThe most important one is our responsibility and duty to protect our external borders. We cannot outsource this obligation to any third country. I will repeat this again: without control on our external borders, Schengen will become history.\u201dHe was referring to the 26-country free-travel zone in Europe, which is also in danger of unravelling under the strains of the migratory pressures and jihadist terrorism.Juncker said he would come up with a system for redistributing an annual \u201ccontingent\u201d of refugees from Turkey among the coalition of the willing countries. Reports in Berlin put the figure at 400,000.He was expected to leave that until after the looming French regional elections for fear of boosting the chances of the anti-EU, anti-immigrant Front National of Marine Le Pen.Earlier, Turkey promised to help stem the flow of migrants to Europe in return for cash, visas and renewed talks on joining the EU.The Turkish prime minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, called it a \u201cnew beginning\u201d for the uneasy neighbours.A key element is \u20ac3bn (\u00a32.11bn) in EU aid for the 2.2 million Syrians now in Turkey. The money is intended to raise their living standards and so persuade more of them to stay put rather than attempt perilous crossings to the EU via the Greek islands.The final offer of \u201can initial\u201d \u20ac3bn represents a compromise between the EU, which offered that sum over two years, and Turkey, which wanted it every year. The money will be paid out bit by bit as conditions are met, French president Francois Hollande said, leaving the total payout unclear. \u201cAs Turkey is making an effort to take in refugees \u2013 who will not come to Europe \u2013 it\u2019s reasonable that Turkey receive help from Europe to accommodate those refugees,\u201d Hollande told reporters. He added that the deal should also make it easier to check migrants arriving and keep out those who pose a threat, like Islamic State militants who struck Paris two weeks ago.  Related: EU seeks to buy Turkish help with migrants at controversial summit Also on offer to Ankara, which wants to revive relations with its European neighbours after years of coolness, is a \u201cre-energised\u201d negotiating process on Turkish membership of the EU, even if few expect it to join soon. Many Turks could also benefit from visa-free travel to Europe\u2019s Schengen zone within a year if Turkey meets conditions on tightening its borders in the east to Asian migrants and moves other benchmarks on reducing departures to Europe. \u201cToday is a historic day in our accession process to the EU,\u201d Davutoglu told reporters on arrival. \u201cI am grateful to all European leaders for this new beginning.\u201d David Cameron said: \u201cThis summit matters because we need a comprehensive solution to the migrant crisis in Europe and obviously that involves Turkey.\u201cBritain will continue to play our role, which is about supporting Syrian refugees in the refugee camps and in Turkey.\u201cIn terms of the discussions this afternoon, a lot of it will be about the Schengen no borders zone that we\u2019re not a member of. Britain in the European Union will keep our border controls, vital to our security that they are.\u201dAfter the summit, Cameron held talks with Tusk on Britain\u2019s renegotiation with the EU. Downing Street said: \u201cThey agreed that we continue to make good progress. While some areas are more difficult than others, discussions are ongoing with member states to find solutions and agree reforms in all four areas outlined in the PM\u2019s letter to the European Council president.\u201cThese discussions will continue in the coming days, including with bilaterals between the PM and other European leaders in Paris tomorrow, and all EU leaders will have a substantive discussion of the UK renegotiation at next month\u2019s European council as planned.\u201d", "tags": ["European Union", "Immigration and asylum", "Germany", "Refugees", "European commission", "Europe", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Europe split over refugee deal as Germany leads breakaway coalition"},{"date": "2015-11-13T11:25:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The eurozone\u2019s economy lost steam in the latest quarter as Portugal stalled, Germany slowed and debt-stricken Greece contracted.Gross domestic product (GDP) across the 19 countries in the single currency bloc rose just 0.3% in the third quarter, according to Eurostat. That defied expectations for growth to hold at 0.4%, according to a Reuters poll of economists. On a year earlier, GDP was up 1.6%, lower than forecasts for 1.7%.Euro area GDP +0.3% in Q3 2015, +1.6% compared with Q3 2014 #Eurostat - https://t.co/t83KcLWq89 pic.twitter.com/zwRG0uzVJhThe July to September figures mark a slowdown from eurozone GDP growth of 0.4% in the second quarter and 0.5% in the first quarter and come as the European Central Bank (ECB) hints that it is planning to inject further funds into the eurozone economy to maintain recovery.Germany, the eurozone\u2019s biggest economy, grew 0.3% as expected, but that was a notch down from 0.4% growth in the previous quarter. France\u2019s economy grew 0.3%, a rebound from no growth in the second quarter.But Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal and Finland all undershot market expectations. Greece swung from growing 0.4% in the second quarter to shrinking 0.5%.#Italy's GDP +0.2% in Q3, slightly below PMI signal. More sluggish growth signalled so far in Q4 pic.twitter.com/SEN038nZUmItaly, the bloc\u2019s third-largest economy after Germany and France, grew 0.2%, behind a Reuters poll forecast for 0.3%. GDP in the Netherlands was up a mere 0.1% against expectations of 0.3%. Portugal did not grow at all and Finland\u2019s economy shrank a larger-than-expected 0.6%. Related: Eurozone GDP: Growth slows to just 0.3% - live updates The ECB president, Mario Draghi, has previously signalled he is prepared to cut interest rates and increase quantitative easing (QE) to stave off the risk of a renewed economic slump in the eurozone. Economists said the latest figures would add to impetus for him to act on recent comments.\u201cThe euro area\u2019s pace of economic growth lost a little momentum in the third quarter, despite the additional central bank stimulus seen so far this year and a weakened, competitive, currency,\u201d said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, which compiles surveys on eurozone economies. \u201cThe subdued pace of growth and persistent weak inflation applies further pressure on the ECB and increases the likelihood of the further measures being announced in December.\u201d This early estimate of eurozone GDP does not contain any detail on what was driving growth, economists noted. But based on surveys and data out from individual countries it appeared household spending was doing the heavy lifting, they said. Meanwhile, manufacturers have been struggling with a slowdown in global demand on the back of China\u2019s downturn and turmoil in other emerging market economies.\u201cConsumers probably saved the day for the eurozone economy in the third quarter. Both the renewed fall in energy prices and the declining unemployment rate have likely boosted disposable income, supporting consumption, in our view the single most important driver of the expansion at this moment,\u201d said Peter Vanden Houte at ING Financial Markets.\u201cBottom line: the eurozone recovery is continuing, but it seems like driving with the handbrake on. With the emerging countries still in the doldrums, little acceleration is to be expected in the coming quarters.\u201d", "tags": ["Eurozone", "Economics", "Business", "Economic recovery", "France", "Germany", "Portugal", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "European Union", "Euro"], "title": "Eurozone recovery loses steam as Germany slows"},{"date": "2015-10-16T12:04:17Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The first time Max Weber made his way to Berlin to take part in a therapy session, he was so nervous he vomited on the train. \u201cI went straight home again and phoned the clinic to tell them I wouldn\u2019t make it,\u201d he said. \u201cI was so shocked by what I was doing I was shaking all over.\u201dThe second time was slightly easier. His hands were clammy and his heart was beating fast, but he took a deep breath as he stepped inside the ivy-clad red-brick building of the Charit\u00e9 hospital and climbed the stairs to meet the group. When he saw them, he got his next shock.\u201cThere were thin, fat, tall and short men, aged between 20 and 60. I found out there was a banker, a church warden, a doctor, a student, an unemployed bloke, an actor \u2013 people from all walks of life.\u201d What Weber, then an engineering student in his mid-20s, had in common with the others was that they were all diagnosed paedophiles who had come voluntarily to receive treatment at the Charit\u00e9\u2019s institute for sexual medicine. \u201cIt was amazing for me to see how different everyone was,\u201d said Weber. \u201cI\u2019d never met another paedophile before.\u201dThe institute has been running the prevention project Dunkelfeld (which means dark field) for a decade. Since 2011, it has gradually developed into a nationwide network called \u201cdon\u2019t offend\u201d. What started in Berlin has spread to 10 other cities, with more centres planned so that eventually the programme will be easily accessible for anyone in Germany.There is a radical difference between the treatment offered to paedophiles in Germany and that in other countries. Strict patient-doctor confidentiality rules mean the men can be assured they will not be reported to the police. They would only be excluded from the programme if there was an active prosecution against them. Related: Paedophilia: bringing dark desires to light \u201cI did not have to give my name and address, and I was given a pin number to connect me to my diagnosis data,\u201d Weber, his chosen pseudonym, told the Guardian in a burger bar in central Berlin.Those who run Dunkelfeld insist that the confidentiality clause is central to the unique project\u2019s success and also accounts for its popularity. \u201cAccording to the German legal code, therapists are forbidden from revealing anything that happens in the context of treatment,\u201d said Laura Kuhle, a clinical psychologist and one of Dunkelfeld\u2019s therapists. \u201cIf people mention anything in therapy that could make them criminally culpable, they are protected. In other countries, that\u2019s not the case.\u201d Kuhle is convinced that, if patients were not guaranteed that confidentiality, most would not turn up at all and those that did would not be truly honest.\u201cWe need them to be completely open about what has happened in their pasts, so that we can work with them as effectively as possible. What situations have they found themselves in? What were the individual events that led up to what\u2019s happened to them until now? You can\u2019t answer questions like that if you are afraid,\u201d Kuhle said.For Weber, who is keen to stress he has never offended although he admits to having been dangerously close to doing so, the confidentiality clause was key. \u201cI was so petrified of anyone even finding out I was thinking of doing it, because of the obvious stigma attached to being a paedophile, I memorised the telephone number before calling the centre, out of fear that someone might find the number on me. That way no one could suspect me of anything,\u201d he said. It was during puberty that Weber first recognised his sexual attraction towards young girls. \u201cI found the feelings threatening, exceptionally unpleasant, but I couldn\u2019t really put a name to them,\u201d he said. . \u201cI recognised that this had the potential to get very dangerous when I was in my early 20s, particularly after one encounter I had with a girl on a beach. I recognised I was drawn towards doing something sexual with the girl, at the same time as not wanting to do it at all because I knew it was wrong.\u201dThree times he planned to carry out what he calls \u201cconcrete assaults\u201d on young children. Three times he was prevented from doing so by a mix of circumstance and his own fear. His mother, who apparently knew nothing of his tendencies, pointed out a television advert for Dunkelfeld. The ad asked: \u201cDo you love children more than you\u2019d like to?\u201d and promised free therapy with medical confidentiality. Related: Channel 4 film features paedophile confessing attraction to children Weber took down the number and went to a phone box to ring the hotline. \u201cIt felt surreal as it was the first time in my life I had talked to anyone about it, and the woman on the other end was so friendly, she talked to me as naturally as if she was giving me a recipe for biscuits,\u201d he said. At a subsequent appointment, Weber was diagnosed as a heteropaedophile because his feelings of sexual attraction for women were clearly subordinated by a stronger attraction towards young girls. He began the weekly three-hour therapy sessions, overseen by two therapists, with between six to 10 participants. The sessions took place at the end of a normal working day and were based on cognitive behavioural therapy methods.\u201cAt the start of each session, the participants talk about their experiences of the past week and what is on their minds,\u201d said Kuhle. The treatment includes helping participants to understand the child\u2019s perspective, learning to cope in potentially difficult situations such as birthday parties, and developing ways to overcome bad habits such as viewing pornographic images or having sexual fantasies, which can increase the likelihood of a paedophile offending. \u201cSometimes,\u201d said Weber, \u201cthe survival tactics involve something as simple as saying to yourself \u2018count backwards from 100, in units of seven\u2019.\u201d But Weber was told early on that paedophilia, according to current understandings, is a non-curable mental disorder without a known cause.Sessions accordingly touched on what could realistically be changed and what would stay the same. \u201cThat was a blow, to know I couldn\u2019t be cured, but at the same time, there was relief to know it wasn\u2019t my fault,\u201d he said. \u201cVital for me was finally being able to look at myself in the mirror and say \u2018you\u2019re not a monster, you\u2019re a paedophile\u2019, and that\u2019s okay as long as you don\u2019t abuse a child.\u201dLearning to control his feelings was the most important aspect of the sessions. \u201cI am responsible for my behaviour. If someone says they can\u2019t control themselves, that\u2019s just not true.\u201d Which is not to say he didn\u2019t struggle. \u201cThere were several times I wanted to stop,\u201d he said. \u201cBecause you\u2019re taking yourself apart and putting yourself back together again with the tools to cope and it was incredibly scary.\u201dWeber, who runs a support group for non-offending paedophiles called Schicksal und Herausforderung (fate and challenge) sports a beard and a burgundy T-shirt. He is not someone who would stand out in a crowd.  Related: Reducing harm done by and to paedophiles | Letters Statistics gathered by the Charit\u00e9\u2019s therapists indicate that, of 440 paedophile patients they have so far treated, the average age is 37, 71% are employed, 39% are in relationships, while 36% are the caregivers for one or more children. They are almost always male. \u201cWe have been contacted by 17 women in the last decade. Only one of these would I say had a paedophilic disorder,\u201d said Kuhle.Perhaps surprisingly, the project has the strong backing of Germany\u2019s conservatives. The ruling Christian Democratic party (CDU) of Angela Merkel is highly supportive and pushing for health insurers to fund the therapy, which costs \u20ac5m-\u20ac8m a year. So far financing has come from government and charitable grants.In a recent policy paper on the subject, the CDU argued that the best protection for children \u201cwould be for people with a paedophilic disposition (of whom it is estimated there are around 250,000 in Germany) not to become offenders in the first place\u201d. \u201cBut in order to lessen the number of attacks by paedophiles, our healthcare system must provide sufficient and low-threshold treatment possibilities for them \u2026 on a financially sustainable and anonymous basis,\u201d it advised.By its very nature, it is almost impossible to evaluate the project\u2019s success. While a paedophile who has participated might be asked if the treatment had prevented him from offending, any answer is likely to be highly subjective and possibly unreliable. To measure its success according to the number of recorded cases of child abuse is also problematic, as those rates are known to have gone up if only because of the increasing number of abuse victims who feel prepared to come forward as the subject has become less taboo.But experts like Kuhle say the popularity of Dunkelfeld among paedophiles is proof of how vital it is. \u201cI meet many colleagues from other countries, particularly the UK and the US, who would like to introduce this therapy and are in the process of trying to roll it out, but are often hindered from doing so by the legal restrictions.\u201dAfter Channel 4 screened the documentary The Paedophile Next Door, which featured the institute\u2019s unique style of therapy, last November, Dunkelfeld\u2019s hotline was inundated with calls from Britons with paedophilic disorders. Therapists say they were frustrated at not being able to help.One British man was so desperate, he moved to Germany to be able to access a Dunkelfeld programme. In an email exchange with the Guardian, the man, who wished to remain anonymous, wrote: \u201cSo far, all I have ever received from the NHS is doors slammed in my face.\u201cDespite paedophilia being listed as a mental illness in the DSM (the standard classification of mental disorders), they don\u2019t want to help you, they just want to see you locked up or perhaps even burnt at the stake. I am so sick and tired of UK medical \u2018professionals\u2019 looking at me as if I\u2019ve grown horns and a barbed tail.\u201cI moved to Germany for therapy, I am learning German and I have a social worker helping me. (Yes, a social worker helping paedophiles!).\u201dAlthough Dunkelfeld has come in for criticism for focusing on the potential abusers rather than the abused, it has been supported by victims\u2019 groups in Germany and elsewhere. The family of April Jones, the five-year-old Welsh girl who was murdered by Mark Bridger in 2012, have appealed for help for paedophiles who seek it. \u201cIf someone says to the doctor: \u2018I have these feelings, can I have help?\u2019 it would be better to try to help them before they ruin someone else\u2019s family,\u201d Coral Jones said this year.Anne, now in her mid-20s, was abused as a child by her policeman stepfather and later discovered the man she was in a relationship with had a paedophilic disorder. She assists relatives and friends of paedophiles by helping them to access therapy. \u201cIf people search for help but can\u2019t get it, then there\u2019s something wrong with us as a society,\u201d she said. \u201cYou just have to think of the many children who I\u2019ve no doubt are saved because this therapy exists. It also prevents these men as well as the mothers and wives who so often protect them, from hiding from themselves anymore.\u201d", "tags": ["Mental health", "Health", "Society", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Child protection"], "title": "How Germany treats paedophiles before they offend"},{"date": "2015-10-14T20:30:18Z", "country": "germany", "content": "An intense heatwave in southern California smashed records last Friday as temperatures topped 40C (104F). The mercury peaked at 42C at Camarillo airport, beating the previous all-time record of 39.5C set in September 1976.Temperatures for October are usually around 25C for south California but were 10C to 20C higher than normal in many places, causing circuits to overheat and leaving about 9,000 people without power Friday and Saturday evening.The heatwave was the result of an area of high pressure located over the south-west US, pulling in hot, dry, air from the desert interior.By contrast, southern areas of Saskatchewan, Canada, were hit by extreme winds Sunday afternoon as a very active cold front swept through the region. The strongest winds gusted at over 75mph in the city of Swift Current. Trucks were blown over and some roofs lost, while toppling trees damaged power lines and led to numerous power cuts.Meanwhile, an early blast of winter hit parts of Europe this week. Very cold air in western Russia pushed into central Europe on Monday and Tuesday, steered by a large area of high pressure across Scandinavia. Germany bore the brunt of the cold with snow reported even in low lying areas on Tuesday night.Snow in October is common in the mountains but rare across low ground; snow below 200 metres was reported in places. Overnight frosts were widespread and daytime temperatures on Tuesday seldom reached 4C or 5C in many places. The unseasonable cold is expected to slowly release its grip in the next few days.", "tags": ["Meteorology", "California", "Snow", "US news", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Early ambush of winter chill for Germany"},{"date": "2015-10-02T15:00:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "I only ever went walking on Sundays. In 1985, my husband Rolf and I were running a wholesale cheese shop and a market stall. It was hard work \u2013 six days a week, from morning to evening. Sunday was our day off, so, with our two children grown up, the two of us would catch a bus and go for walks around the city. I would wear my fur coat. I had my everyday clothes for work days, but my coat was special. Nobody wears real fur any more, but we did back then. It was cold; you can see the snow on the ground.Essen is an industrial city. I\u2019m standing on a road bridge that spans a motorway \u2013 it cuts Essen in two, north and south. We lived on the edge of the city in a leafy garden neighbourhood called Margarethenh\u00f6he. At the time, the photographer, Rudi Meisel, lived around the corner: his flat overlooked our balcony. He was a student, and we had got to know him a little from our market stall. Yet I never knew he\u2019d taken a photograph of me that day, and neither did he.Many years later, when we had become friends, he dropped a get-well card for Rolf through our letterbox; he had just come out of hospital. It was a postcard made from one of his own photographs following an exhibition years earlier. To my utter amazement, there I was. It was a total coincidence. The picture was just a passing snapshot, a reflex, Rudi told me; he took it quickly, spoke to no one and moved on, not knowing if the light or the composition were any good.It\u2019s such an ordinary scene that I sometimes wonder why people care. But this sort of spontaneous \u201cstreet\u201d photography depicts real life, and that\u2019s always interesting. It tells you what everyday life was like back then. I often think I should know the two girls in the foreground, but I don\u2019t recognise them. And I\u2019ve always wondered about the case with the American flag on it: it was a real icon in Germany then, so it could have caught Rudi\u2019s eye. Related: Nazarena Arg\u00fcello at the San Fermin festival, Pamplona, 2015 The picture was part of a project he was doing, photographing people in West and East Germany, and comparing the two. We weren\u2019t particularly interested in East Germany then \u2013 it seemed so far away, and my main impression of it was of a country whose people were suffering. But many East Germans will tell you otherwise.We did visit once, in the 1960s: a distant uncle in East Berlin. We took a bus from West Berlin across the border, just for the day. My abiding memory is of no flowers, no colour and no fun. When the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, we visited the former East often, particularly cities such as Dresden and the northern lake district of Mecklenburg. The people and the scenery were wonderful.We still live in the same flat in Essen, and have now been there for 50 years. We retired a couple of years ago, but still go walking.", "tags": ["Photography", "Art and design", "Germany", "Culture", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Brigitte Kleinekath\u00f6fer, Essen, West Germany, 1985"},{"date": "2015-11-30T07:21:11Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Months of European efforts to come up with common policies on mass immigration unravelled on Sunday when Germany led a \u201ccoalition of the willing\u201d of nine EU countries taking in most refugees from the Middle East, splitting the union formally on the issues of mandatory refugee-sharing and funding.An unprecedented full EU summit with Turkey agreed a fragile pact aimed at stemming the flow of migrants to Europe via Turkey.But the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, frustrated by the resistance in Europe to her policies, also convened a separate mini-summit with seven other leaders to push a fast-track deal with the Turks and to press ahead with a new policy of taking in and sharing hundreds of thousands of refugees a year directly from Turkey.The surprise mini-summit suggested that Merkel has given up on trying to persuade her opponents, mostly in eastern Europe, to join a mandatory refugee-sharing scheme across the EU, although she is also expected to use the pro-quotas coalition to pressure the naysayers into joining later.Merkel\u2019s ally on the new policy, Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European commission, said of the mini-summit: \u201cThis is a meeting of those states which are prepared to take in large numbers of refugees from Turkey legally.\u201d Related: Hiding in plain sight: inside the world of Turkey's people smugglers But he added later that any such agreement would be voluntary and not binding, while the Dutch rejected German-led calls to resettle large numbers directly from Turkey.The frictions triggered by the split were instantly apparent. Donald Tusk, the president of the European council who chaired the full summit with Turkey, contradicted the mainly west European emphasis on seeing Ankara as the best hope of slowing the mass migration to Europe. \u201cLet us not be naive. Turkey is not the only key to solving the migration crisis,\u201d said Tusk. \u201cThe most important one is our responsibility and duty to protect our external borders. We cannot outsource this obligation to any third country. I will repeat this again: without control on our external borders, Schengen will become history.\u201dHe was referring to the 26-country free-travel zone in Europe, which is also in danger of unravelling under the strains of the migratory pressures and jihadist terrorism.Juncker said he would come up with a system for redistributing an annual \u201ccontingent\u201d of refugees from Turkey among the coalition of the willing countries. Reports in Berlin put the figure at 400,000.He was expected to leave that until after the looming French regional elections for fear of boosting the chances of the anti-EU, anti-immigrant Front National of Marine Le Pen.Earlier, Turkey promised to help stem the flow of migrants to Europe in return for cash, visas and renewed talks on joining the EU.The Turkish prime minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, called it a \u201cnew beginning\u201d for the uneasy neighbours.A key element is \u20ac3bn (\u00a32.11bn) in EU aid for the 2.2 million Syrians now in Turkey. The money is intended to raise their living standards and so persuade more of them to stay put rather than attempt perilous crossings to the EU via the Greek islands.The final offer of \u201can initial\u201d \u20ac3bn represents a compromise between the EU, which offered that sum over two years, and Turkey, which wanted it every year. The money will be paid out bit by bit as conditions are met, French president Francois Hollande said, leaving the total payout unclear. \u201cAs Turkey is making an effort to take in refugees \u2013 who will not come to Europe \u2013 it\u2019s reasonable that Turkey receive help from Europe to accommodate those refugees,\u201d Hollande told reporters. He added that the deal should also make it easier to check migrants arriving and keep out those who pose a threat, like Islamic State militants who struck Paris two weeks ago.  Related: EU seeks to buy Turkish help with migrants at controversial summit Also on offer to Ankara, which wants to revive relations with its European neighbours after years of coolness, is a \u201cre-energised\u201d negotiating process on Turkish membership of the EU, even if few expect it to join soon. Many Turks could also benefit from visa-free travel to Europe\u2019s Schengen zone within a year if Turkey meets conditions on tightening its borders in the east to Asian migrants and moves other benchmarks on reducing departures to Europe. \u201cToday is a historic day in our accession process to the EU,\u201d Davutoglu told reporters on arrival. \u201cI am grateful to all European leaders for this new beginning.\u201d David Cameron said: \u201cThis summit matters because we need a comprehensive solution to the migrant crisis in Europe and obviously that involves Turkey.\u201cBritain will continue to play our role, which is about supporting Syrian refugees in the refugee camps and in Turkey.\u201cIn terms of the discussions this afternoon, a lot of it will be about the Schengen no borders zone that we\u2019re not a member of. Britain in the European Union will keep our border controls, vital to our security that they are.\u201dAfter the summit, Cameron held talks with Tusk on Britain\u2019s renegotiation with the EU. Downing Street said: \u201cThey agreed that we continue to make good progress. While some areas are more difficult than others, discussions are ongoing with member states to find solutions and agree reforms in all four areas outlined in the PM\u2019s letter to the European Council president.\u201cThese discussions will continue in the coming days, including with bilaterals between the PM and other European leaders in Paris tomorrow, and all EU leaders will have a substantive discussion of the UK renegotiation at next month\u2019s European council as planned.\u201d", "tags": ["European Union", "Immigration and asylum", "Germany", "Refugees", "European commission", "Europe", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Europe split over refugee deal as Germany leads breakaway coalition"},{"date": "2015-11-21T22:29:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Mark Sampson describes Silvia Neid as the greatest coach in the history of women\u2019s football and her team the queens of the female game. Such genuine respect should not obscure his enthusiasm for outwitting his Germany counterpart. Thanks to Fara Williams\u2019s extra-time penalty, England beat Neid\u2019s players 1-0 in Edmonton last July to win Canada 2015\u2019s third-place play-off and now their coach wants to repeat the feat.It will not be easy. With the side ranked No2 in the world still stung by England\u2019s first victory against their country after more than three decades of trying, revenge is likely to hang heavy in the air when Sampson\u2019s side travel to Duisburg for a friendly on Thursday. Related: Chelsea Ladies fall to Wolfsburg in Champions League last 16 Seemingly confounded by the tactically astute young Welshman\u2019s bold decision to showcase a 3-5-2 formation at the Commonwealth Stadium, Neid looked far from amused when the final whistle blew. Nearly five months on, England are braced for a retaliatory response . Their success \u2013 or otherwise \u2013 in coping with it will be seen as a litmus test of England\u2019s potential before the next European Championship, to be staged in the Netherlands.More immediately, Duisburg should also serve as the perfect warm-up to next Sunday\u2019s Euro 2017 qualifier with Bosnia-Herzegovina at Ashton Gate. \u201cWe want to push ourselves and break into that top tier of world football,\u201d says Sampson. \u201cTo do that we\u2019ve got to put in a big shift and give it a good go against one of the world\u2019s best teams in front of a packed stadium on Thursday. Germany will be dead set on revenge after the World Cup. It\u2019ll be a tough ask but we\u2019re excited by the challenge. The players all want to be involved. We\u2019ll be ready.\u201dThis intriguing rematch with Neid \u2013 scheduled to step down from her post next year \u2013 is the penultimate fixture of the English season. Perhaps appropriately, the final game \u2013 against Bosnia \u2013 is also England\u2019s first at home since their return from the World Cup.It will be a surprise if England \u2013 expected to canter through qualifying \u2013 fail to overcome their Balkan visitors. While Bosnia are unlikely to be quite as accommodating as Estonia proved during the Lionesses\u2019 opening Euro 2017 qualifier, a comprehensive 8-0 victory in Tallinn, Sampson\u2019s biggest problem is raising England\u2019s technical bar.For all the wonderful unity and commitment his side displayed in Canada, their bronze medal was partly down to his cleverness at concealing deep-seated flaws courtesy of some smart tactical pragmatism and near constant player rotation. Possession retention and creative incision remain areas offering considerable scope for improvement.He has named a strong squad for the forthcoming double bill with both Williams and Toni Duggan returning after injury. Controversially, there is no place for Beth Mead, the prolific Sunderland striker. \u201cWe\u2019re really looking forward to playing in front of our supporters for the first time since the World Cup,\u201d Sampson says. \u201cWomen\u2019s football fans in the south-west are among the best in England and I know they\u2019ll come out in force. I\u2019m sure our home-coming at Ashton Gate will be a wonderful occasion.\u201d\u201cThis has been an amazing year, full of special memories. To end it with a match in Germany, one of the biggest tests in women\u2019s football, and then a home-coming in Bristol is fitting. Last November we were well beaten by an excellent Germany at Wembley, but since then, we\u2019ve grown as a group and developed a much stronger mentality.\u201d It is likely to be fully tested in Duisburg.", "tags": ["England women's football team", "Women's football", "Football", "Friendlies"], "title": "Mark Sampson steels England for Germany and Neid\u2019s revenge mission"},{"date": "2015-11-13T11:25:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The eurozone\u2019s economy lost steam in the latest quarter as Portugal stalled, Germany slowed and debt-stricken Greece contracted.Gross domestic product (GDP) across the 19 countries in the single currency bloc rose just 0.3% in the third quarter, according to Eurostat. That defied expectations for growth to hold at 0.4%, according to a Reuters poll of economists. On a year earlier, GDP was up 1.6%, lower than forecasts for 1.7%.Euro area GDP +0.3% in Q3 2015, +1.6% compared with Q3 2014 #Eurostat - https://t.co/t83KcLWq89 pic.twitter.com/zwRG0uzVJhThe July to September figures mark a slowdown from eurozone GDP growth of 0.4% in the second quarter and 0.5% in the first quarter and come as the European Central Bank (ECB) hints that it is planning to inject further funds into the eurozone economy to maintain recovery.Germany, the eurozone\u2019s biggest economy, grew 0.3% as expected, but that was a notch down from 0.4% growth in the previous quarter. France\u2019s economy grew 0.3%, a rebound from no growth in the second quarter.But Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal and Finland all undershot market expectations. Greece swung from growing 0.4% in the second quarter to shrinking 0.5%.#Italy's GDP +0.2% in Q3, slightly below PMI signal. More sluggish growth signalled so far in Q4 pic.twitter.com/SEN038nZUmItaly, the bloc\u2019s third-largest economy after Germany and France, grew 0.2%, behind a Reuters poll forecast for 0.3%. GDP in the Netherlands was up a mere 0.1% against expectations of 0.3%. Portugal did not grow at all and Finland\u2019s economy shrank a larger-than-expected 0.6%. Related: Eurozone GDP: Growth slows to just 0.3% - live updates The ECB president, Mario Draghi, has previously signalled he is prepared to cut interest rates and increase quantitative easing (QE) to stave off the risk of a renewed economic slump in the eurozone. Economists said the latest figures would add to impetus for him to act on recent comments.\u201cThe euro area\u2019s pace of economic growth lost a little momentum in the third quarter, despite the additional central bank stimulus seen so far this year and a weakened, competitive, currency,\u201d said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, which compiles surveys on eurozone economies. \u201cThe subdued pace of growth and persistent weak inflation applies further pressure on the ECB and increases the likelihood of the further measures being announced in December.\u201d This early estimate of eurozone GDP does not contain any detail on what was driving growth, economists noted. But based on surveys and data out from individual countries it appeared household spending was doing the heavy lifting, they said. Meanwhile, manufacturers have been struggling with a slowdown in global demand on the back of China\u2019s downturn and turmoil in other emerging market economies.\u201cConsumers probably saved the day for the eurozone economy in the third quarter. Both the renewed fall in energy prices and the declining unemployment rate have likely boosted disposable income, supporting consumption, in our view the single most important driver of the expansion at this moment,\u201d said Peter Vanden Houte at ING Financial Markets.\u201cBottom line: the eurozone recovery is continuing, but it seems like driving with the handbrake on. With the emerging countries still in the doldrums, little acceleration is to be expected in the coming quarters.\u201d", "tags": ["Eurozone", "Economics", "Business", "Economic recovery", "France", "Germany", "Portugal", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "European Union", "Euro"], "title": "Eurozone recovery loses steam as Germany slows"},{"date": "2015-10-16T12:04:17Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The first time Max Weber made his way to Berlin to take part in a therapy session, he was so nervous he vomited on the train. \u201cI went straight home again and phoned the clinic to tell them I wouldn\u2019t make it,\u201d he said. \u201cI was so shocked by what I was doing I was shaking all over.\u201dThe second time was slightly easier. His hands were clammy and his heart was beating fast, but he took a deep breath as he stepped inside the ivy-clad red-brick building of the Charit\u00e9 hospital and climbed the stairs to meet the group. When he saw them, he got his next shock.\u201cThere were thin, fat, tall and short men, aged between 20 and 60. I found out there was a banker, a church warden, a doctor, a student, an unemployed bloke, an actor \u2013 people from all walks of life.\u201d What Weber, then an engineering student in his mid-20s, had in common with the others was that they were all diagnosed paedophiles who had come voluntarily to receive treatment at the Charit\u00e9\u2019s institute for sexual medicine. \u201cIt was amazing for me to see how different everyone was,\u201d said Weber. \u201cI\u2019d never met another paedophile before.\u201dThe institute has been running the prevention project Dunkelfeld (which means dark field) for a decade. Since 2011, it has gradually developed into a nationwide network called \u201cdon\u2019t offend\u201d. What started in Berlin has spread to 10 other cities, with more centres planned so that eventually the programme will be easily accessible for anyone in Germany.There is a radical difference between the treatment offered to paedophiles in Germany and that in other countries. Strict patient-doctor confidentiality rules mean the men can be assured they will not be reported to the police. They would only be excluded from the programme if there was an active prosecution against them. Related: Paedophilia: bringing dark desires to light \u201cI did not have to give my name and address, and I was given a pin number to connect me to my diagnosis data,\u201d Weber, his chosen pseudonym, told the Guardian in a burger bar in central Berlin.Those who run Dunkelfeld insist that the confidentiality clause is central to the unique project\u2019s success and also accounts for its popularity. \u201cAccording to the German legal code, therapists are forbidden from revealing anything that happens in the context of treatment,\u201d said Laura Kuhle, a clinical psychologist and one of Dunkelfeld\u2019s therapists. \u201cIf people mention anything in therapy that could make them criminally culpable, they are protected. In other countries, that\u2019s not the case.\u201d Kuhle is convinced that, if patients were not guaranteed that confidentiality, most would not turn up at all and those that did would not be truly honest.\u201cWe need them to be completely open about what has happened in their pasts, so that we can work with them as effectively as possible. What situations have they found themselves in? What were the individual events that led up to what\u2019s happened to them until now? You can\u2019t answer questions like that if you are afraid,\u201d Kuhle said.For Weber, who is keen to stress he has never offended although he admits to having been dangerously close to doing so, the confidentiality clause was key. \u201cI was so petrified of anyone even finding out I was thinking of doing it, because of the obvious stigma attached to being a paedophile, I memorised the telephone number before calling the centre, out of fear that someone might find the number on me. That way no one could suspect me of anything,\u201d he said. It was during puberty that Weber first recognised his sexual attraction towards young girls. \u201cI found the feelings threatening, exceptionally unpleasant, but I couldn\u2019t really put a name to them,\u201d he said. . \u201cI recognised that this had the potential to get very dangerous when I was in my early 20s, particularly after one encounter I had with a girl on a beach. I recognised I was drawn towards doing something sexual with the girl, at the same time as not wanting to do it at all because I knew it was wrong.\u201dThree times he planned to carry out what he calls \u201cconcrete assaults\u201d on young children. Three times he was prevented from doing so by a mix of circumstance and his own fear. His mother, who apparently knew nothing of his tendencies, pointed out a television advert for Dunkelfeld. The ad asked: \u201cDo you love children more than you\u2019d like to?\u201d and promised free therapy with medical confidentiality. Related: Channel 4 film features paedophile confessing attraction to children Weber took down the number and went to a phone box to ring the hotline. \u201cIt felt surreal as it was the first time in my life I had talked to anyone about it, and the woman on the other end was so friendly, she talked to me as naturally as if she was giving me a recipe for biscuits,\u201d he said. At a subsequent appointment, Weber was diagnosed as a heteropaedophile because his feelings of sexual attraction for women were clearly subordinated by a stronger attraction towards young girls. He began the weekly three-hour therapy sessions, overseen by two therapists, with between six to 10 participants. The sessions took place at the end of a normal working day and were based on cognitive behavioural therapy methods.\u201cAt the start of each session, the participants talk about their experiences of the past week and what is on their minds,\u201d said Kuhle. The treatment includes helping participants to understand the child\u2019s perspective, learning to cope in potentially difficult situations such as birthday parties, and developing ways to overcome bad habits such as viewing pornographic images or having sexual fantasies, which can increase the likelihood of a paedophile offending. \u201cSometimes,\u201d said Weber, \u201cthe survival tactics involve something as simple as saying to yourself \u2018count backwards from 100, in units of seven\u2019.\u201d But Weber was told early on that paedophilia, according to current understandings, is a non-curable mental disorder without a known cause.Sessions accordingly touched on what could realistically be changed and what would stay the same. \u201cThat was a blow, to know I couldn\u2019t be cured, but at the same time, there was relief to know it wasn\u2019t my fault,\u201d he said. \u201cVital for me was finally being able to look at myself in the mirror and say \u2018you\u2019re not a monster, you\u2019re a paedophile\u2019, and that\u2019s okay as long as you don\u2019t abuse a child.\u201dLearning to control his feelings was the most important aspect of the sessions. \u201cI am responsible for my behaviour. If someone says they can\u2019t control themselves, that\u2019s just not true.\u201d Which is not to say he didn\u2019t struggle. \u201cThere were several times I wanted to stop,\u201d he said. \u201cBecause you\u2019re taking yourself apart and putting yourself back together again with the tools to cope and it was incredibly scary.\u201dWeber, who runs a support group for non-offending paedophiles called Schicksal und Herausforderung (fate and challenge) sports a beard and a burgundy T-shirt. He is not someone who would stand out in a crowd.  Related: Reducing harm done by and to paedophiles | Letters Statistics gathered by the Charit\u00e9\u2019s therapists indicate that, of 440 paedophile patients they have so far treated, the average age is 37, 71% are employed, 39% are in relationships, while 36% are the caregivers for one or more children. They are almost always male. \u201cWe have been contacted by 17 women in the last decade. Only one of these would I say had a paedophilic disorder,\u201d said Kuhle.Perhaps surprisingly, the project has the strong backing of Germany\u2019s conservatives. The ruling Christian Democratic party (CDU) of Angela Merkel is highly supportive and pushing for health insurers to fund the therapy, which costs \u20ac5m-\u20ac8m a year. So far financing has come from government and charitable grants.In a recent policy paper on the subject, the CDU argued that the best protection for children \u201cwould be for people with a paedophilic disposition (of whom it is estimated there are around 250,000 in Germany) not to become offenders in the first place\u201d. \u201cBut in order to lessen the number of attacks by paedophiles, our healthcare system must provide sufficient and low-threshold treatment possibilities for them \u2026 on a financially sustainable and anonymous basis,\u201d it advised.By its very nature, it is almost impossible to evaluate the project\u2019s success. While a paedophile who has participated might be asked if the treatment had prevented him from offending, any answer is likely to be highly subjective and possibly unreliable. To measure its success according to the number of recorded cases of child abuse is also problematic, as those rates are known to have gone up if only because of the increasing number of abuse victims who feel prepared to come forward as the subject has become less taboo.But experts like Kuhle say the popularity of Dunkelfeld among paedophiles is proof of how vital it is. \u201cI meet many colleagues from other countries, particularly the UK and the US, who would like to introduce this therapy and are in the process of trying to roll it out, but are often hindered from doing so by the legal restrictions.\u201dAfter Channel 4 screened the documentary The Paedophile Next Door, which featured the institute\u2019s unique style of therapy, last November, Dunkelfeld\u2019s hotline was inundated with calls from Britons with paedophilic disorders. Therapists say they were frustrated at not being able to help.One British man was so desperate, he moved to Germany to be able to access a Dunkelfeld programme. In an email exchange with the Guardian, the man, who wished to remain anonymous, wrote: \u201cSo far, all I have ever received from the NHS is doors slammed in my face.\u201cDespite paedophilia being listed as a mental illness in the DSM (the standard classification of mental disorders), they don\u2019t want to help you, they just want to see you locked up or perhaps even burnt at the stake. I am so sick and tired of UK medical \u2018professionals\u2019 looking at me as if I\u2019ve grown horns and a barbed tail.\u201cI moved to Germany for therapy, I am learning German and I have a social worker helping me. (Yes, a social worker helping paedophiles!).\u201dAlthough Dunkelfeld has come in for criticism for focusing on the potential abusers rather than the abused, it has been supported by victims\u2019 groups in Germany and elsewhere. The family of April Jones, the five-year-old Welsh girl who was murdered by Mark Bridger in 2012, have appealed for help for paedophiles who seek it. \u201cIf someone says to the doctor: \u2018I have these feelings, can I have help?\u2019 it would be better to try to help them before they ruin someone else\u2019s family,\u201d Coral Jones said this year.Anne, now in her mid-20s, was abused as a child by her policeman stepfather and later discovered the man she was in a relationship with had a paedophilic disorder. She assists relatives and friends of paedophiles by helping them to access therapy. \u201cIf people search for help but can\u2019t get it, then there\u2019s something wrong with us as a society,\u201d she said. \u201cYou just have to think of the many children who I\u2019ve no doubt are saved because this therapy exists. It also prevents these men as well as the mothers and wives who so often protect them, from hiding from themselves anymore.\u201d", "tags": ["Mental health", "Health", "Society", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Child protection"], "title": "How Germany treats paedophiles before they offend"},{"date": "2015-10-14T20:30:18Z", "country": "germany", "content": "An intense heatwave in southern California smashed records last Friday as temperatures topped 40C (104F). The mercury peaked at 42C at Camarillo airport, beating the previous all-time record of 39.5C set in September 1976.Temperatures for October are usually around 25C for south California but were 10C to 20C higher than normal in many places, causing circuits to overheat and leaving about 9,000 people without power Friday and Saturday evening.The heatwave was the result of an area of high pressure located over the south-west US, pulling in hot, dry, air from the desert interior.By contrast, southern areas of Saskatchewan, Canada, were hit by extreme winds Sunday afternoon as a very active cold front swept through the region. The strongest winds gusted at over 75mph in the city of Swift Current. Trucks were blown over and some roofs lost, while toppling trees damaged power lines and led to numerous power cuts.Meanwhile, an early blast of winter hit parts of Europe this week. Very cold air in western Russia pushed into central Europe on Monday and Tuesday, steered by a large area of high pressure across Scandinavia. Germany bore the brunt of the cold with snow reported even in low lying areas on Tuesday night.Snow in October is common in the mountains but rare across low ground; snow below 200 metres was reported in places. Overnight frosts were widespread and daytime temperatures on Tuesday seldom reached 4C or 5C in many places. The unseasonable cold is expected to slowly release its grip in the next few days.", "tags": ["Meteorology", "California", "Snow", "US news", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Early ambush of winter chill for Germany"},{"date": "2015-10-02T15:00:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "I only ever went walking on Sundays. In 1985, my husband Rolf and I were running a wholesale cheese shop and a market stall. It was hard work \u2013 six days a week, from morning to evening. Sunday was our day off, so, with our two children grown up, the two of us would catch a bus and go for walks around the city. I would wear my fur coat. I had my everyday clothes for work days, but my coat was special. Nobody wears real fur any more, but we did back then. It was cold; you can see the snow on the ground.Essen is an industrial city. I\u2019m standing on a road bridge that spans a motorway \u2013 it cuts Essen in two, north and south. We lived on the edge of the city in a leafy garden neighbourhood called Margarethenh\u00f6he. At the time, the photographer, Rudi Meisel, lived around the corner: his flat overlooked our balcony. He was a student, and we had got to know him a little from our market stall. Yet I never knew he\u2019d taken a photograph of me that day, and neither did he.Many years later, when we had become friends, he dropped a get-well card for Rolf through our letterbox; he had just come out of hospital. It was a postcard made from one of his own photographs following an exhibition years earlier. To my utter amazement, there I was. It was a total coincidence. The picture was just a passing snapshot, a reflex, Rudi told me; he took it quickly, spoke to no one and moved on, not knowing if the light or the composition were any good.It\u2019s such an ordinary scene that I sometimes wonder why people care. But this sort of spontaneous \u201cstreet\u201d photography depicts real life, and that\u2019s always interesting. It tells you what everyday life was like back then. I often think I should know the two girls in the foreground, but I don\u2019t recognise them. And I\u2019ve always wondered about the case with the American flag on it: it was a real icon in Germany then, so it could have caught Rudi\u2019s eye. Related: Nazarena Arg\u00fcello at the San Fermin festival, Pamplona, 2015 The picture was part of a project he was doing, photographing people in West and East Germany, and comparing the two. We weren\u2019t particularly interested in East Germany then \u2013 it seemed so far away, and my main impression of it was of a country whose people were suffering. But many East Germans will tell you otherwise.We did visit once, in the 1960s: a distant uncle in East Berlin. We took a bus from West Berlin across the border, just for the day. My abiding memory is of no flowers, no colour and no fun. When the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, we visited the former East often, particularly cities such as Dresden and the northern lake district of Mecklenburg. The people and the scenery were wonderful.We still live in the same flat in Essen, and have now been there for 50 years. We retired a couple of years ago, but still go walking.", "tags": ["Photography", "Art and design", "Germany", "Culture", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Brigitte Kleinekath\u00f6fer, Essen, West Germany, 1985"},{"date": "2015-11-30T07:21:11Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Months of European efforts to come up with common policies on mass immigration unravelled on Sunday when Germany led a \u201ccoalition of the willing\u201d of nine EU countries taking in most refugees from the Middle East, splitting the union formally on the issues of mandatory refugee-sharing and funding.An unprecedented full EU summit with Turkey agreed a fragile pact aimed at stemming the flow of migrants to Europe via Turkey.But the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, frustrated by the resistance in Europe to her policies, also convened a separate mini-summit with seven other leaders to push a fast-track deal with the Turks and to press ahead with a new policy of taking in and sharing hundreds of thousands of refugees a year directly from Turkey.The surprise mini-summit suggested that Merkel has given up on trying to persuade her opponents, mostly in eastern Europe, to join a mandatory refugee-sharing scheme across the EU, although she is also expected to use the pro-quotas coalition to pressure the naysayers into joining later.Merkel\u2019s ally on the new policy, Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European commission, said of the mini-summit: \u201cThis is a meeting of those states which are prepared to take in large numbers of refugees from Turkey legally.\u201d Related: Hiding in plain sight: inside the world of Turkey's people smugglers But he added later that any such agreement would be voluntary and not binding, while the Dutch rejected German-led calls to resettle large numbers directly from Turkey.The frictions triggered by the split were instantly apparent. Donald Tusk, the president of the European council who chaired the full summit with Turkey, contradicted the mainly west European emphasis on seeing Ankara as the best hope of slowing the mass migration to Europe. \u201cLet us not be naive. Turkey is not the only key to solving the migration crisis,\u201d said Tusk. \u201cThe most important one is our responsibility and duty to protect our external borders. We cannot outsource this obligation to any third country. I will repeat this again: without control on our external borders, Schengen will become history.\u201dHe was referring to the 26-country free-travel zone in Europe, which is also in danger of unravelling under the strains of the migratory pressures and jihadist terrorism.Juncker said he would come up with a system for redistributing an annual \u201ccontingent\u201d of refugees from Turkey among the coalition of the willing countries. Reports in Berlin put the figure at 400,000.He was expected to leave that until after the looming French regional elections for fear of boosting the chances of the anti-EU, anti-immigrant Front National of Marine Le Pen.Earlier, Turkey promised to help stem the flow of migrants to Europe in return for cash, visas and renewed talks on joining the EU.The Turkish prime minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, called it a \u201cnew beginning\u201d for the uneasy neighbours.A key element is \u20ac3bn (\u00a32.11bn) in EU aid for the 2.2 million Syrians now in Turkey. The money is intended to raise their living standards and so persuade more of them to stay put rather than attempt perilous crossings to the EU via the Greek islands.The final offer of \u201can initial\u201d \u20ac3bn represents a compromise between the EU, which offered that sum over two years, and Turkey, which wanted it every year. The money will be paid out bit by bit as conditions are met, French president Francois Hollande said, leaving the total payout unclear. \u201cAs Turkey is making an effort to take in refugees \u2013 who will not come to Europe \u2013 it\u2019s reasonable that Turkey receive help from Europe to accommodate those refugees,\u201d Hollande told reporters. He added that the deal should also make it easier to check migrants arriving and keep out those who pose a threat, like Islamic State militants who struck Paris two weeks ago.  Related: EU seeks to buy Turkish help with migrants at controversial summit Also on offer to Ankara, which wants to revive relations with its European neighbours after years of coolness, is a \u201cre-energised\u201d negotiating process on Turkish membership of the EU, even if few expect it to join soon. Many Turks could also benefit from visa-free travel to Europe\u2019s Schengen zone within a year if Turkey meets conditions on tightening its borders in the east to Asian migrants and moves other benchmarks on reducing departures to Europe. \u201cToday is a historic day in our accession process to the EU,\u201d Davutoglu told reporters on arrival. \u201cI am grateful to all European leaders for this new beginning.\u201d David Cameron said: \u201cThis summit matters because we need a comprehensive solution to the migrant crisis in Europe and obviously that involves Turkey.\u201cBritain will continue to play our role, which is about supporting Syrian refugees in the refugee camps and in Turkey.\u201cIn terms of the discussions this afternoon, a lot of it will be about the Schengen no borders zone that we\u2019re not a member of. Britain in the European Union will keep our border controls, vital to our security that they are.\u201dAfter the summit, Cameron held talks with Tusk on Britain\u2019s renegotiation with the EU. Downing Street said: \u201cThey agreed that we continue to make good progress. While some areas are more difficult than others, discussions are ongoing with member states to find solutions and agree reforms in all four areas outlined in the PM\u2019s letter to the European Council president.\u201cThese discussions will continue in the coming days, including with bilaterals between the PM and other European leaders in Paris tomorrow, and all EU leaders will have a substantive discussion of the UK renegotiation at next month\u2019s European council as planned.\u201d", "tags": ["European Union", "Immigration and asylum", "Germany", "Refugees", "European commission", "Europe", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Europe split over refugee deal as Germany leads breakaway coalition"},{"date": "2015-11-21T22:29:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Mark Sampson describes Silvia Neid as the greatest coach in the history of women\u2019s football and her team the queens of the female game. Such genuine respect should not obscure his enthusiasm for outwitting his Germany counterpart. Thanks to Fara Williams\u2019s extra-time penalty, England beat Neid\u2019s players 1-0 in Edmonton last July to win Canada 2015\u2019s third-place play-off and now their coach wants to repeat the feat.It will not be easy. With the side ranked No2 in the world still stung by England\u2019s first victory against their country after more than three decades of trying, revenge is likely to hang heavy in the air when Sampson\u2019s side travel to Duisburg for a friendly on Thursday. Related: Chelsea Ladies fall to Wolfsburg in Champions League last 16 Seemingly confounded by the tactically astute young Welshman\u2019s bold decision to showcase a 3-5-2 formation at the Commonwealth Stadium, Neid looked far from amused when the final whistle blew. Nearly five months on, England are braced for a retaliatory response . Their success \u2013 or otherwise \u2013 in coping with it will be seen as a litmus test of England\u2019s potential before the next European Championship, to be staged in the Netherlands.More immediately, Duisburg should also serve as the perfect warm-up to next Sunday\u2019s Euro 2017 qualifier with Bosnia-Herzegovina at Ashton Gate. \u201cWe want to push ourselves and break into that top tier of world football,\u201d says Sampson. \u201cTo do that we\u2019ve got to put in a big shift and give it a good go against one of the world\u2019s best teams in front of a packed stadium on Thursday. Germany will be dead set on revenge after the World Cup. It\u2019ll be a tough ask but we\u2019re excited by the challenge. The players all want to be involved. We\u2019ll be ready.\u201dThis intriguing rematch with Neid \u2013 scheduled to step down from her post next year \u2013 is the penultimate fixture of the English season. Perhaps appropriately, the final game \u2013 against Bosnia \u2013 is also England\u2019s first at home since their return from the World Cup.It will be a surprise if England \u2013 expected to canter through qualifying \u2013 fail to overcome their Balkan visitors. While Bosnia are unlikely to be quite as accommodating as Estonia proved during the Lionesses\u2019 opening Euro 2017 qualifier, a comprehensive 8-0 victory in Tallinn, Sampson\u2019s biggest problem is raising England\u2019s technical bar.For all the wonderful unity and commitment his side displayed in Canada, their bronze medal was partly down to his cleverness at concealing deep-seated flaws courtesy of some smart tactical pragmatism and near constant player rotation. Possession retention and creative incision remain areas offering considerable scope for improvement.He has named a strong squad for the forthcoming double bill with both Williams and Toni Duggan returning after injury. Controversially, there is no place for Beth Mead, the prolific Sunderland striker. \u201cWe\u2019re really looking forward to playing in front of our supporters for the first time since the World Cup,\u201d Sampson says. \u201cWomen\u2019s football fans in the south-west are among the best in England and I know they\u2019ll come out in force. I\u2019m sure our home-coming at Ashton Gate will be a wonderful occasion.\u201d\u201cThis has been an amazing year, full of special memories. To end it with a match in Germany, one of the biggest tests in women\u2019s football, and then a home-coming in Bristol is fitting. Last November we were well beaten by an excellent Germany at Wembley, but since then, we\u2019ve grown as a group and developed a much stronger mentality.\u201d It is likely to be fully tested in Duisburg.", "tags": ["England women's football team", "Women's football", "Football", "Friendlies"], "title": "Mark Sampson steels England for Germany and Neid\u2019s revenge mission"},{"date": "2015-11-13T15:43:43Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Malcolm Turnbull says he has no intention of giving Germany gratuitous advice about how to handle the flow of asylum seekers from the Syrian conflict.The Australian prime minister used the opportunity of a joint press conference with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, in Berlin on Friday to publicly rebuke recent commentary from his predecessor Tony Abbott.Abbott advised Europe to take on Australia\u2019s tough border security policies or risk \u201ccatastrophic error\u201d. Related: Malcolm Turnbull grips the zeitgeist in his Berlin whirl Turnbull told reporters he and Merkel had a very good discussion on the subject of asylum flows, \u201cbut I have no intention of giving advice on these matters to the German chancellor\u201d.\u201cEach country faces very different circumstances, not the least of which are geographical. I think this is a matter for the German government as it is for the Australian government to manage in their own way.\u201dTurnbull\u2019s response came in answer to a question to both himself and Merkel about whether Europe had anything to learn from Australian border control policies, and whether the chancellor accepted Abbott\u2019s advice about the risks of \u201cmisguided altruism\u201d, which was delivered at the second Margaret Thatcher Lecture at London\u2019s Guildhall in October.Merkel avoided any direct response to the Abbott remarks, but in general commentary about the current flow of refugees, she said right now, the narrow sea lane between Turkey and Greece was under the control of smugglers and traffickers, and this was \u201cunacceptable\u201d.\u201cSolutions have to be found to allow the European Union to protect its borders, there\u2019s no denying the fact,\u201d Merkel said.Merkel has displayed moral leadership on accepting Syrian refugees but is facing dissent within her ruling coalition about how to deal with the large influx from Syria.Germany expects between 800,000 and one million asylum seekers to arrive over the course of this year.Turnbull and Merkel met ahead of the G20 summit in Turkey over the weekend.The two leaders discussed the Syrian conflict and what Merkel characterised as \u201cthe chances of securing a peaceful solution\u201d.They also discussed \u201cpeaceful coexistence with Muslims fighting Islamic State\u201d, Merkel said, noting there had been an important exchange of views between herself and Turnbull on the subject.Turnbull said of the Syrian conflict, the only option for peace was a political solution. \u201cThe solution will ultimately be a political one. There needs to be a political solution to this absolutely catastrophic situation in Syria.\u201dThere are reports the US president, Barack Obama, may meet the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, over the coming days at the G20 summit, with Syria expected to be a major focus of the talks in Antalya.The two leaders also released a report of the Australia-Germany Advisory Group.The document contains a number of recommendations for strengthening business and strategic ties between the two countries.Turnbull said some of the key recommendations on research commercialisation would feed into the government\u2019s innovation statement, due next month.Key recommendations include a commitment of German support for negotiations towards an EU-Australia free trade agreement and annual \u201c2+2\u201d strategic dialogue between Australia and Germany, and the conclusion of a double taxation treaty.The report also commits the two countries to a establishing a bilateral working group on energy and resources to discuss climate change \u201cincluding lessons and opportunities from Germany\u2019s energy transition\u201d.Turnbull and Merkel also discussed defence issues.The German company ThyssenKrupp is bidding to build Australia\u2019s next fleet of submarines.Asked about the bid, Merkel said her government was fully supportive of the ThyssenKrupp bid, and the high quality of the bid should \u201cspeak for itself\u201d.Turnbull noted the potential for innovation would be critical to the ultimate outcome of the tender. \u201cTechnology is key,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Australian politics", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Refugees", "Tony Abbott", "Angela Merkel", "Syria"], "title": "Turnbull rebukes Abbott: I won't give Germany advice about refugees"},{"date": "2015-11-13T11:25:21Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The eurozone\u2019s economy lost steam in the latest quarter as Portugal stalled, Germany slowed and debt-stricken Greece contracted.Gross domestic product (GDP) across the 19 countries in the single currency bloc rose just 0.3% in the third quarter, according to Eurostat. That defied expectations for growth to hold at 0.4%, according to a Reuters poll of economists. On a year earlier, GDP was up 1.6%, lower than forecasts for 1.7%.Euro area GDP +0.3% in Q3 2015, +1.6% compared with Q3 2014 #Eurostat - https://t.co/t83KcLWq89 pic.twitter.com/zwRG0uzVJhThe July to September figures mark a slowdown from eurozone GDP growth of 0.4% in the second quarter and 0.5% in the first quarter and come as the European Central Bank (ECB) hints that it is planning to inject further funds into the eurozone economy to maintain recovery.Germany, the eurozone\u2019s biggest economy, grew 0.3% as expected, but that was a notch down from 0.4% growth in the previous quarter. France\u2019s economy grew 0.3%, a rebound from no growth in the second quarter.But Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal and Finland all undershot market expectations. Greece swung from growing 0.4% in the second quarter to shrinking 0.5%.#Italy's GDP +0.2% in Q3, slightly below PMI signal. More sluggish growth signalled so far in Q4 pic.twitter.com/SEN038nZUmItaly, the bloc\u2019s third-largest economy after Germany and France, grew 0.2%, behind a Reuters poll forecast for 0.3%. GDP in the Netherlands was up a mere 0.1% against expectations of 0.3%. Portugal did not grow at all and Finland\u2019s economy shrank a larger-than-expected 0.6%. Related: Eurozone GDP: Growth slows to just 0.3% - live updates The ECB president, Mario Draghi, has previously signalled he is prepared to cut interest rates and increase quantitative easing (QE) to stave off the risk of a renewed economic slump in the eurozone. Economists said the latest figures would add to impetus for him to act on recent comments.\u201cThe euro area\u2019s pace of economic growth lost a little momentum in the third quarter, despite the additional central bank stimulus seen so far this year and a weakened, competitive, currency,\u201d said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, which compiles surveys on eurozone economies. \u201cThe subdued pace of growth and persistent weak inflation applies further pressure on the ECB and increases the likelihood of the further measures being announced in December.\u201d This early estimate of eurozone GDP does not contain any detail on what was driving growth, economists noted. But based on surveys and data out from individual countries it appeared household spending was doing the heavy lifting, they said. Meanwhile, manufacturers have been struggling with a slowdown in global demand on the back of China\u2019s downturn and turmoil in other emerging market economies.\u201cConsumers probably saved the day for the eurozone economy in the third quarter. Both the renewed fall in energy prices and the declining unemployment rate have likely boosted disposable income, supporting consumption, in our view the single most important driver of the expansion at this moment,\u201d said Peter Vanden Houte at ING Financial Markets.\u201cBottom line: the eurozone recovery is continuing, but it seems like driving with the handbrake on. With the emerging countries still in the doldrums, little acceleration is to be expected in the coming quarters.\u201d", "tags": ["Eurozone", "Economics", "Business", "Economic recovery", "France", "Germany", "Portugal", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "European Union", "Euro"], "title": "Eurozone recovery loses steam as Germany slows"},{"date": "2015-10-16T12:04:17Z", "country": "germany", "content": "The first time Max Weber made his way to Berlin to take part in a therapy session, he was so nervous he vomited on the train. \u201cI went straight home again and phoned the clinic to tell them I wouldn\u2019t make it,\u201d he said. \u201cI was so shocked by what I was doing I was shaking all over.\u201dThe second time was slightly easier. His hands were clammy and his heart was beating fast, but he took a deep breath as he stepped inside the ivy-clad red-brick building of the Charit\u00e9 hospital and climbed the stairs to meet the group. When he saw them, he got his next shock.\u201cThere were thin, fat, tall and short men, aged between 20 and 60. I found out there was a banker, a church warden, a doctor, a student, an unemployed bloke, an actor \u2013 people from all walks of life.\u201d What Weber, then an engineering student in his mid-20s, had in common with the others was that they were all diagnosed paedophiles who had come voluntarily to receive treatment at the Charit\u00e9\u2019s institute for sexual medicine. \u201cIt was amazing for me to see how different everyone was,\u201d said Weber. \u201cI\u2019d never met another paedophile before.\u201dThe institute has been running the prevention project Dunkelfeld (which means dark field) for a decade. Since 2011, it has gradually developed into a nationwide network called \u201cdon\u2019t offend\u201d. What started in Berlin has spread to 10 other cities, with more centres planned so that eventually the programme will be easily accessible for anyone in Germany.There is a radical difference between the treatment offered to paedophiles in Germany and that in other countries. Strict patient-doctor confidentiality rules mean the men can be assured they will not be reported to the police. They would only be excluded from the programme if there was an active prosecution against them. Related: Paedophilia: bringing dark desires to light \u201cI did not have to give my name and address, and I was given a pin number to connect me to my diagnosis data,\u201d Weber, his chosen pseudonym, told the Guardian in a burger bar in central Berlin.Those who run Dunkelfeld insist that the confidentiality clause is central to the unique project\u2019s success and also accounts for its popularity. \u201cAccording to the German legal code, therapists are forbidden from revealing anything that happens in the context of treatment,\u201d said Laura Kuhle, a clinical psychologist and one of Dunkelfeld\u2019s therapists. \u201cIf people mention anything in therapy that could make them criminally culpable, they are protected. In other countries, that\u2019s not the case.\u201d Kuhle is convinced that, if patients were not guaranteed that confidentiality, most would not turn up at all and those that did would not be truly honest.\u201cWe need them to be completely open about what has happened in their pasts, so that we can work with them as effectively as possible. What situations have they found themselves in? What were the individual events that led up to what\u2019s happened to them until now? You can\u2019t answer questions like that if you are afraid,\u201d Kuhle said.For Weber, who is keen to stress he has never offended although he admits to having been dangerously close to doing so, the confidentiality clause was key. \u201cI was so petrified of anyone even finding out I was thinking of doing it, because of the obvious stigma attached to being a paedophile, I memorised the telephone number before calling the centre, out of fear that someone might find the number on me. That way no one could suspect me of anything,\u201d he said. It was during puberty that Weber first recognised his sexual attraction towards young girls. \u201cI found the feelings threatening, exceptionally unpleasant, but I couldn\u2019t really put a name to them,\u201d he said. . \u201cI recognised that this had the potential to get very dangerous when I was in my early 20s, particularly after one encounter I had with a girl on a beach. I recognised I was drawn towards doing something sexual with the girl, at the same time as not wanting to do it at all because I knew it was wrong.\u201dThree times he planned to carry out what he calls \u201cconcrete assaults\u201d on young children. Three times he was prevented from doing so by a mix of circumstance and his own fear. His mother, who apparently knew nothing of his tendencies, pointed out a television advert for Dunkelfeld. The ad asked: \u201cDo you love children more than you\u2019d like to?\u201d and promised free therapy with medical confidentiality. Related: Channel 4 film features paedophile confessing attraction to children Weber took down the number and went to a phone box to ring the hotline. \u201cIt felt surreal as it was the first time in my life I had talked to anyone about it, and the woman on the other end was so friendly, she talked to me as naturally as if she was giving me a recipe for biscuits,\u201d he said. At a subsequent appointment, Weber was diagnosed as a heteropaedophile because his feelings of sexual attraction for women were clearly subordinated by a stronger attraction towards young girls. He began the weekly three-hour therapy sessions, overseen by two therapists, with between six to 10 participants. The sessions took place at the end of a normal working day and were based on cognitive behavioural therapy methods.\u201cAt the start of each session, the participants talk about their experiences of the past week and what is on their minds,\u201d said Kuhle. The treatment includes helping participants to understand the child\u2019s perspective, learning to cope in potentially difficult situations such as birthday parties, and developing ways to overcome bad habits such as viewing pornographic images or having sexual fantasies, which can increase the likelihood of a paedophile offending. \u201cSometimes,\u201d said Weber, \u201cthe survival tactics involve something as simple as saying to yourself \u2018count backwards from 100, in units of seven\u2019.\u201d But Weber was told early on that paedophilia, according to current understandings, is a non-curable mental disorder without a known cause.Sessions accordingly touched on what could realistically be changed and what would stay the same. \u201cThat was a blow, to know I couldn\u2019t be cured, but at the same time, there was relief to know it wasn\u2019t my fault,\u201d he said. \u201cVital for me was finally being able to look at myself in the mirror and say \u2018you\u2019re not a monster, you\u2019re a paedophile\u2019, and that\u2019s okay as long as you don\u2019t abuse a child.\u201dLearning to control his feelings was the most important aspect of the sessions. \u201cI am responsible for my behaviour. If someone says they can\u2019t control themselves, that\u2019s just not true.\u201d Which is not to say he didn\u2019t struggle. \u201cThere were several times I wanted to stop,\u201d he said. \u201cBecause you\u2019re taking yourself apart and putting yourself back together again with the tools to cope and it was incredibly scary.\u201dWeber, who runs a support group for non-offending paedophiles called Schicksal und Herausforderung (fate and challenge) sports a beard and a burgundy T-shirt. He is not someone who would stand out in a crowd.  Related: Reducing harm done by and to paedophiles | Letters Statistics gathered by the Charit\u00e9\u2019s therapists indicate that, of 440 paedophile patients they have so far treated, the average age is 37, 71% are employed, 39% are in relationships, while 36% are the caregivers for one or more children. They are almost always male. \u201cWe have been contacted by 17 women in the last decade. Only one of these would I say had a paedophilic disorder,\u201d said Kuhle.Perhaps surprisingly, the project has the strong backing of Germany\u2019s conservatives. The ruling Christian Democratic party (CDU) of Angela Merkel is highly supportive and pushing for health insurers to fund the therapy, which costs \u20ac5m-\u20ac8m a year. So far financing has come from government and charitable grants.In a recent policy paper on the subject, the CDU argued that the best protection for children \u201cwould be for people with a paedophilic disposition (of whom it is estimated there are around 250,000 in Germany) not to become offenders in the first place\u201d. \u201cBut in order to lessen the number of attacks by paedophiles, our healthcare system must provide sufficient and low-threshold treatment possibilities for them \u2026 on a financially sustainable and anonymous basis,\u201d it advised.By its very nature, it is almost impossible to evaluate the project\u2019s success. While a paedophile who has participated might be asked if the treatment had prevented him from offending, any answer is likely to be highly subjective and possibly unreliable. To measure its success according to the number of recorded cases of child abuse is also problematic, as those rates are known to have gone up if only because of the increasing number of abuse victims who feel prepared to come forward as the subject has become less taboo.But experts like Kuhle say the popularity of Dunkelfeld among paedophiles is proof of how vital it is. \u201cI meet many colleagues from other countries, particularly the UK and the US, who would like to introduce this therapy and are in the process of trying to roll it out, but are often hindered from doing so by the legal restrictions.\u201dAfter Channel 4 screened the documentary The Paedophile Next Door, which featured the institute\u2019s unique style of therapy, last November, Dunkelfeld\u2019s hotline was inundated with calls from Britons with paedophilic disorders. Therapists say they were frustrated at not being able to help.One British man was so desperate, he moved to Germany to be able to access a Dunkelfeld programme. In an email exchange with the Guardian, the man, who wished to remain anonymous, wrote: \u201cSo far, all I have ever received from the NHS is doors slammed in my face.\u201cDespite paedophilia being listed as a mental illness in the DSM (the standard classification of mental disorders), they don\u2019t want to help you, they just want to see you locked up or perhaps even burnt at the stake. I am so sick and tired of UK medical \u2018professionals\u2019 looking at me as if I\u2019ve grown horns and a barbed tail.\u201cI moved to Germany for therapy, I am learning German and I have a social worker helping me. (Yes, a social worker helping paedophiles!).\u201dAlthough Dunkelfeld has come in for criticism for focusing on the potential abusers rather than the abused, it has been supported by victims\u2019 groups in Germany and elsewhere. The family of April Jones, the five-year-old Welsh girl who was murdered by Mark Bridger in 2012, have appealed for help for paedophiles who seek it. \u201cIf someone says to the doctor: \u2018I have these feelings, can I have help?\u2019 it would be better to try to help them before they ruin someone else\u2019s family,\u201d Coral Jones said this year.Anne, now in her mid-20s, was abused as a child by her policeman stepfather and later discovered the man she was in a relationship with had a paedophilic disorder. She assists relatives and friends of paedophiles by helping them to access therapy. \u201cIf people search for help but can\u2019t get it, then there\u2019s something wrong with us as a society,\u201d she said. \u201cYou just have to think of the many children who I\u2019ve no doubt are saved because this therapy exists. It also prevents these men as well as the mothers and wives who so often protect them, from hiding from themselves anymore.\u201d", "tags": ["Mental health", "Health", "Society", "Germany", "Europe", "World news", "Child protection"], "title": "How Germany treats paedophiles before they offend"},{"date": "2015-10-14T20:30:18Z", "country": "germany", "content": "An intense heatwave in southern California smashed records last Friday as temperatures topped 40C (104F). The mercury peaked at 42C at Camarillo airport, beating the previous all-time record of 39.5C set in September 1976.Temperatures for October are usually around 25C for south California but were 10C to 20C higher than normal in many places, causing circuits to overheat and leaving about 9,000 people without power Friday and Saturday evening.The heatwave was the result of an area of high pressure located over the south-west US, pulling in hot, dry, air from the desert interior.By contrast, southern areas of Saskatchewan, Canada, were hit by extreme winds Sunday afternoon as a very active cold front swept through the region. The strongest winds gusted at over 75mph in the city of Swift Current. Trucks were blown over and some roofs lost, while toppling trees damaged power lines and led to numerous power cuts.Meanwhile, an early blast of winter hit parts of Europe this week. Very cold air in western Russia pushed into central Europe on Monday and Tuesday, steered by a large area of high pressure across Scandinavia. Germany bore the brunt of the cold with snow reported even in low lying areas on Tuesday night.Snow in October is common in the mountains but rare across low ground; snow below 200 metres was reported in places. Overnight frosts were widespread and daytime temperatures on Tuesday seldom reached 4C or 5C in many places. The unseasonable cold is expected to slowly release its grip in the next few days.", "tags": ["Meteorology", "California", "Snow", "US news", "Russia", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Early ambush of winter chill for Germany"},{"date": "2015-10-02T15:00:02Z", "country": "germany", "content": "I only ever went walking on Sundays. In 1985, my husband Rolf and I were running a wholesale cheese shop and a market stall. It was hard work \u2013 six days a week, from morning to evening. Sunday was our day off, so, with our two children grown up, the two of us would catch a bus and go for walks around the city. I would wear my fur coat. I had my everyday clothes for work days, but my coat was special. Nobody wears real fur any more, but we did back then. It was cold; you can see the snow on the ground.Essen is an industrial city. I\u2019m standing on a road bridge that spans a motorway \u2013 it cuts Essen in two, north and south. We lived on the edge of the city in a leafy garden neighbourhood called Margarethenh\u00f6he. At the time, the photographer, Rudi Meisel, lived around the corner: his flat overlooked our balcony. He was a student, and we had got to know him a little from our market stall. Yet I never knew he\u2019d taken a photograph of me that day, and neither did he.Many years later, when we had become friends, he dropped a get-well card for Rolf through our letterbox; he had just come out of hospital. It was a postcard made from one of his own photographs following an exhibition years earlier. To my utter amazement, there I was. It was a total coincidence. The picture was just a passing snapshot, a reflex, Rudi told me; he took it quickly, spoke to no one and moved on, not knowing if the light or the composition were any good.It\u2019s such an ordinary scene that I sometimes wonder why people care. But this sort of spontaneous \u201cstreet\u201d photography depicts real life, and that\u2019s always interesting. It tells you what everyday life was like back then. I often think I should know the two girls in the foreground, but I don\u2019t recognise them. And I\u2019ve always wondered about the case with the American flag on it: it was a real icon in Germany then, so it could have caught Rudi\u2019s eye. Related: Nazarena Arg\u00fcello at the San Fermin festival, Pamplona, 2015 The picture was part of a project he was doing, photographing people in West and East Germany, and comparing the two. We weren\u2019t particularly interested in East Germany then \u2013 it seemed so far away, and my main impression of it was of a country whose people were suffering. But many East Germans will tell you otherwise.We did visit once, in the 1960s: a distant uncle in East Berlin. We took a bus from West Berlin across the border, just for the day. My abiding memory is of no flowers, no colour and no fun. When the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, we visited the former East often, particularly cities such as Dresden and the northern lake district of Mecklenburg. The people and the scenery were wonderful.We still live in the same flat in Essen, and have now been there for 50 years. We retired a couple of years ago, but still go walking.", "tags": ["Photography", "Art and design", "Germany", "Culture", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Brigitte Kleinekath\u00f6fer, Essen, West Germany, 1985"},{"date": "2015-11-30T07:21:11Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Months of European efforts to come up with common policies on mass immigration unravelled on Sunday when Germany led a \u201ccoalition of the willing\u201d of nine EU countries taking in most refugees from the Middle East, splitting the union formally on the issues of mandatory refugee-sharing and funding.An unprecedented full EU summit with Turkey agreed a fragile pact aimed at stemming the flow of migrants to Europe via Turkey.But the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, frustrated by the resistance in Europe to her policies, also convened a separate mini-summit with seven other leaders to push a fast-track deal with the Turks and to press ahead with a new policy of taking in and sharing hundreds of thousands of refugees a year directly from Turkey.The surprise mini-summit suggested that Merkel has given up on trying to persuade her opponents, mostly in eastern Europe, to join a mandatory refugee-sharing scheme across the EU, although she is also expected to use the pro-quotas coalition to pressure the naysayers into joining later.Merkel\u2019s ally on the new policy, Jean-Claude Juncker, president of the European commission, said of the mini-summit: \u201cThis is a meeting of those states which are prepared to take in large numbers of refugees from Turkey legally.\u201d Related: Hiding in plain sight: inside the world of Turkey's people smugglers But he added later that any such agreement would be voluntary and not binding, while the Dutch rejected German-led calls to resettle large numbers directly from Turkey.The frictions triggered by the split were instantly apparent. Donald Tusk, the president of the European council who chaired the full summit with Turkey, contradicted the mainly west European emphasis on seeing Ankara as the best hope of slowing the mass migration to Europe. \u201cLet us not be naive. Turkey is not the only key to solving the migration crisis,\u201d said Tusk. \u201cThe most important one is our responsibility and duty to protect our external borders. We cannot outsource this obligation to any third country. I will repeat this again: without control on our external borders, Schengen will become history.\u201dHe was referring to the 26-country free-travel zone in Europe, which is also in danger of unravelling under the strains of the migratory pressures and jihadist terrorism.Juncker said he would come up with a system for redistributing an annual \u201ccontingent\u201d of refugees from Turkey among the coalition of the willing countries. Reports in Berlin put the figure at 400,000.He was expected to leave that until after the looming French regional elections for fear of boosting the chances of the anti-EU, anti-immigrant Front National of Marine Le Pen.Earlier, Turkey promised to help stem the flow of migrants to Europe in return for cash, visas and renewed talks on joining the EU.The Turkish prime minister, Ahmet Davutoglu, called it a \u201cnew beginning\u201d for the uneasy neighbours.A key element is \u20ac3bn (\u00a32.11bn) in EU aid for the 2.2 million Syrians now in Turkey. The money is intended to raise their living standards and so persuade more of them to stay put rather than attempt perilous crossings to the EU via the Greek islands.The final offer of \u201can initial\u201d \u20ac3bn represents a compromise between the EU, which offered that sum over two years, and Turkey, which wanted it every year. The money will be paid out bit by bit as conditions are met, French president Francois Hollande said, leaving the total payout unclear. \u201cAs Turkey is making an effort to take in refugees \u2013 who will not come to Europe \u2013 it\u2019s reasonable that Turkey receive help from Europe to accommodate those refugees,\u201d Hollande told reporters. He added that the deal should also make it easier to check migrants arriving and keep out those who pose a threat, like Islamic State militants who struck Paris two weeks ago.  Related: EU seeks to buy Turkish help with migrants at controversial summit Also on offer to Ankara, which wants to revive relations with its European neighbours after years of coolness, is a \u201cre-energised\u201d negotiating process on Turkish membership of the EU, even if few expect it to join soon. Many Turks could also benefit from visa-free travel to Europe\u2019s Schengen zone within a year if Turkey meets conditions on tightening its borders in the east to Asian migrants and moves other benchmarks on reducing departures to Europe. \u201cToday is a historic day in our accession process to the EU,\u201d Davutoglu told reporters on arrival. \u201cI am grateful to all European leaders for this new beginning.\u201d David Cameron said: \u201cThis summit matters because we need a comprehensive solution to the migrant crisis in Europe and obviously that involves Turkey.\u201cBritain will continue to play our role, which is about supporting Syrian refugees in the refugee camps and in Turkey.\u201cIn terms of the discussions this afternoon, a lot of it will be about the Schengen no borders zone that we\u2019re not a member of. Britain in the European Union will keep our border controls, vital to our security that they are.\u201dAfter the summit, Cameron held talks with Tusk on Britain\u2019s renegotiation with the EU. Downing Street said: \u201cThey agreed that we continue to make good progress. While some areas are more difficult than others, discussions are ongoing with member states to find solutions and agree reforms in all four areas outlined in the PM\u2019s letter to the European Council president.\u201cThese discussions will continue in the coming days, including with bilaterals between the PM and other European leaders in Paris tomorrow, and all EU leaders will have a substantive discussion of the UK renegotiation at next month\u2019s European council as planned.\u201d", "tags": ["European Union", "Immigration and asylum", "Germany", "Refugees", "European commission", "Europe", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Europe split over refugee deal as Germany leads breakaway coalition"},{"date": "2015-11-21T22:29:00Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Mark Sampson describes Silvia Neid as the greatest coach in the history of women\u2019s football and her team the queens of the female game. Such genuine respect should not obscure his enthusiasm for outwitting his Germany counterpart. Thanks to Fara Williams\u2019s extra-time penalty, England beat Neid\u2019s players 1-0 in Edmonton last July to win Canada 2015\u2019s third-place play-off and now their coach wants to repeat the feat.It will not be easy. With the side ranked No2 in the world still stung by England\u2019s first victory against their country after more than three decades of trying, revenge is likely to hang heavy in the air when Sampson\u2019s side travel to Duisburg for a friendly on Thursday. Related: Chelsea Ladies fall to Wolfsburg in Champions League last 16 Seemingly confounded by the tactically astute young Welshman\u2019s bold decision to showcase a 3-5-2 formation at the Commonwealth Stadium, Neid looked far from amused when the final whistle blew. Nearly five months on, England are braced for a retaliatory response . Their success \u2013 or otherwise \u2013 in coping with it will be seen as a litmus test of England\u2019s potential before the next European Championship, to be staged in the Netherlands.More immediately, Duisburg should also serve as the perfect warm-up to next Sunday\u2019s Euro 2017 qualifier with Bosnia-Herzegovina at Ashton Gate. \u201cWe want to push ourselves and break into that top tier of world football,\u201d says Sampson. \u201cTo do that we\u2019ve got to put in a big shift and give it a good go against one of the world\u2019s best teams in front of a packed stadium on Thursday. Germany will be dead set on revenge after the World Cup. It\u2019ll be a tough ask but we\u2019re excited by the challenge. The players all want to be involved. We\u2019ll be ready.\u201dThis intriguing rematch with Neid \u2013 scheduled to step down from her post next year \u2013 is the penultimate fixture of the English season. Perhaps appropriately, the final game \u2013 against Bosnia \u2013 is also England\u2019s first at home since their return from the World Cup.It will be a surprise if England \u2013 expected to canter through qualifying \u2013 fail to overcome their Balkan visitors. While Bosnia are unlikely to be quite as accommodating as Estonia proved during the Lionesses\u2019 opening Euro 2017 qualifier, a comprehensive 8-0 victory in Tallinn, Sampson\u2019s biggest problem is raising England\u2019s technical bar.For all the wonderful unity and commitment his side displayed in Canada, their bronze medal was partly down to his cleverness at concealing deep-seated flaws courtesy of some smart tactical pragmatism and near constant player rotation. Possession retention and creative incision remain areas offering considerable scope for improvement.He has named a strong squad for the forthcoming double bill with both Williams and Toni Duggan returning after injury. Controversially, there is no place for Beth Mead, the prolific Sunderland striker. \u201cWe\u2019re really looking forward to playing in front of our supporters for the first time since the World Cup,\u201d Sampson says. \u201cWomen\u2019s football fans in the south-west are among the best in England and I know they\u2019ll come out in force. I\u2019m sure our home-coming at Ashton Gate will be a wonderful occasion.\u201d\u201cThis has been an amazing year, full of special memories. To end it with a match in Germany, one of the biggest tests in women\u2019s football, and then a home-coming in Bristol is fitting. Last November we were well beaten by an excellent Germany at Wembley, but since then, we\u2019ve grown as a group and developed a much stronger mentality.\u201d It is likely to be fully tested in Duisburg.", "tags": ["England women's football team", "Women's football", "Football", "Friendlies"], "title": "Mark Sampson steels England for Germany and Neid\u2019s revenge mission"},{"date": "2015-11-13T15:43:43Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Malcolm Turnbull says he has no intention of giving Germany gratuitous advice about how to handle the flow of asylum seekers from the Syrian conflict.The Australian prime minister used the opportunity of a joint press conference with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, in Berlin on Friday to publicly rebuke recent commentary from his predecessor Tony Abbott.Abbott advised Europe to take on Australia\u2019s tough border security policies or risk \u201ccatastrophic error\u201d. Related: Malcolm Turnbull grips the zeitgeist in his Berlin whirl Turnbull told reporters he and Merkel had a very good discussion on the subject of asylum flows, \u201cbut I have no intention of giving advice on these matters to the German chancellor\u201d.\u201cEach country faces very different circumstances, not the least of which are geographical. I think this is a matter for the German government as it is for the Australian government to manage in their own way.\u201dTurnbull\u2019s response came in answer to a question to both himself and Merkel about whether Europe had anything to learn from Australian border control policies, and whether the chancellor accepted Abbott\u2019s advice about the risks of \u201cmisguided altruism\u201d, which was delivered at the second Margaret Thatcher Lecture at London\u2019s Guildhall in October.Merkel avoided any direct response to the Abbott remarks, but in general commentary about the current flow of refugees, she said right now, the narrow sea lane between Turkey and Greece was under the control of smugglers and traffickers, and this was \u201cunacceptable\u201d.\u201cSolutions have to be found to allow the European Union to protect its borders, there\u2019s no denying the fact,\u201d Merkel said.Merkel has displayed moral leadership on accepting Syrian refugees but is facing dissent within her ruling coalition about how to deal with the large influx from Syria.Germany expects between 800,000 and one million asylum seekers to arrive over the course of this year.Turnbull and Merkel met ahead of the G20 summit in Turkey over the weekend.The two leaders discussed the Syrian conflict and what Merkel characterised as \u201cthe chances of securing a peaceful solution\u201d.They also discussed \u201cpeaceful coexistence with Muslims fighting Islamic State\u201d, Merkel said, noting there had been an important exchange of views between herself and Turnbull on the subject.Turnbull said of the Syrian conflict, the only option for peace was a political solution. \u201cThe solution will ultimately be a political one. There needs to be a political solution to this absolutely catastrophic situation in Syria.\u201dThere are reports the US president, Barack Obama, may meet the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, over the coming days at the G20 summit, with Syria expected to be a major focus of the talks in Antalya.The two leaders also released a report of the Australia-Germany Advisory Group.The document contains a number of recommendations for strengthening business and strategic ties between the two countries.Turnbull said some of the key recommendations on research commercialisation would feed into the government\u2019s innovation statement, due next month.Key recommendations include a commitment of German support for negotiations towards an EU-Australia free trade agreement and annual \u201c2+2\u201d strategic dialogue between Australia and Germany, and the conclusion of a double taxation treaty.The report also commits the two countries to a establishing a bilateral working group on energy and resources to discuss climate change \u201cincluding lessons and opportunities from Germany\u2019s energy transition\u201d.Turnbull and Merkel also discussed defence issues.The German company ThyssenKrupp is bidding to build Australia\u2019s next fleet of submarines.Asked about the bid, Merkel said her government was fully supportive of the ThyssenKrupp bid, and the high quality of the bid should \u201cspeak for itself\u201d.Turnbull noted the potential for innovation would be critical to the ultimate outcome of the tender. \u201cTechnology is key,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Australian politics", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Refugees", "Tony Abbott", "Angela Merkel", "Syria"], "title": "Turnbull rebukes Abbott: I won't give Germany advice about refugees"},{"date": "2015-11-13T08:13:18Z", "country": "germany", "content": "Malcolm Turnbull has touched down in Berlin for a day of meetings with the German chancellor Angela Merkel ahead of the G20 summit in Turkey. Related: Market forces help Turnbull to build warmer relations with Indonesia The Australian prime minister is scheduled to have a private meeting with Merkel, followed by lunch, and a joint press conference.Given the proximity of the UN climate talks in Paris, and Germany\u2019s ongoing commitments to managing the flow of asylum seekers across Europe from the Syrian conflict, it is anticipated that both issues will be canvassed during the bilateral discussion Friday night Australian time.The Berlin stop will also see the release of a report paving the way for more business links between Australia and Germany, including specific recommendations allowing more opportunities for collaborative innovation.Friday\u2019s meetings in Berlin follow the prime minister\u2019s visit on Thursday to Jakarta, which was an attempt to reset one of Australia\u2019s most important foreign policy relationships after a period of diplomatic turbulence.Turnbull met the Indonesia president Joko Widodo at the presidential palace and later went on a walk through a Jakarta textile market, where he was jostled by a huge crowd.Turnbull will go on from Berlin to the G20 summit in Turkey, the Apec summit in Manila, and the East Asia summit in Kuala Lumpur before returning to Australia on Monday 23 November.", "tags": ["Australian politics", "Australia news", "Malcolm Turnbull", "Angela Merkel", "Germany", "Climate change", "COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Environment", "Europe", "Global climate talks", "Refugees", "Migration", "Syria", "Islamic State"], "title": "Malcolm Turnbull arrives in Germany for talks with Angela Merkel"}]